ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the issues that could not have been addressed this afternoon will be dealt with next Tuesday in the morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u2	Mr President, Mr Minister, Article 39, now Article 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which allows foreign income to be included in the calculation of tax benefits, also allows the benefit of tax benefits to be reduced or granted to a lesser extent than if the applicant had acquired all his income in Belgium? Secondly, does Article 49 of the Treaty have to be interpreted as permitting a resident to be deprived of the benefit of a tax advantage determined by reason of his method of imputation, whereas that resident would have been entitled to it if he received all of his income in his Member State of residence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u3	Mr Piedboeuf, it is true that natural persons resident in Belgium who receive income from foreign sources lose, through the calculation of the tax reduction for income of foreign origin, a proportion of the tax benefits related to their personal situation. As this situation has been "condemned" by the Court of Justice of the European Union, a 2008 circular addressed this problem as follows: individuals resident in Belgium who receive income from foreign sources may benefit from a tax reduction for income from additional foreign origin, provided that and to the extent that the tax paid by that taxpayer is higher than the Belgian tax that would have been due if the income was exclusively from Belgian sources. This has not been challenged either by the European Commission or by the Court of Justice of the European Union. There is therefore no reason to believe that Belgium is violating the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on this point. It is also true that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union precludes resident couples, one of whom is a spouse, from receiving income from a foreign source higher than Belgian income, from fully losing the benefit of tax advantages such as the exemption for dependents. This is reflected in a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. That is why I have instructed my administration to prepare a bill amending the Tax Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u4	Minister, thank you. That's the answer I was waiting for. I assume that the amendment will take place as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u5	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u6	Mr. Richard Miller was absent; his question No. 16902 was deleted. Question No 16907 by Mr Stefaan Vercamer is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I am talking about this subject once again. In 2015, you announced a control action against fraud or abuse of the reduced VAT rate on electricity. The total cost of this action was EUR 250 million. In November of last year, I asked you about a state of affairs and you replied that a number of suppliers were negotiating with a view to reaching an agreement on about 17,000 customers for whom possibly the reduced VAT rate of 6% was applied irregularly to the electricity bill. You also stated that it was the administration's practice to conclude agreements in the last quarter of 2016. On 22 February this year, I again asked the question and you replied that no agreement had been reached at that time. Hence my questions again. What is the current state of affairs? What is the total amount of corrections due according to the administration? For what part of that amount is there already an agreement with the taxpayers and for what part is there not yet a final agreement? In the meantime, how much was effectively recovered following this control action? In addition, in the event that you still do not answer the questions that have been asked repeatedly, I would like to ask you a few additional questions, to which you can answer at least because negotiations would still be in progress. In the context of budgetary control, the Court of Auditors was informed that on the basis of data mining there were two lists with a view to correcting the situation. That's what my questions are about. Can you confirm that the first list of the largest amounts for all suppliers has disappeared and that therefore only on the basis of the second list has been negotiated or negotiated? In doing so, you do not release any information that could affect the negotiations in any way, if they were still in progress. In other words, the answer is yes or no for all suppliers. Secondly, do you confirm today that on 22 February 2017, when we discussed this last time, there was no agreement between the BBI and the electricity suppliers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u8	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, I would like to refer to my answer to the oral question No. 13767, in which I reported that the BBI was investigating six files concerning 17,000 customers, which required a lot of time and energy. No fraud could be detected in the relevant files, but there were infringements of the proper qualification of certain contracts. This concerns the distinction between residential contracts at a reduced rate of 6% VAT and professional contracts subject to the standard rate of 21% VAT, in accordance with the legal provisions and the agreements made at the time between the sector and the government when the measures in question were introduced. At the last committee meeting, the note that was made available to me was not sufficiently updated. I will now give you the current state of affairs. The BBI investigated six files from energy suppliers, one of which was unselected. An agreement was reached in four of the remaining five dossiers and, to date, 881 860 euros have been effectively paid out of the 1 155 753 euros established. The fifth and final dossier is still under discussion. The total amount of VAT corrections due shall be EUR 1 458 846. In a first phase of the control action, two lists of contracts had to be corrected. In the course of discussions with the suppliers concerned and, of course, taking account of the legal framework, of previous agreements with the sector when the measure was introduced, as well as of the position taken by my predecessor, only one list could ultimately be withheld, in particular the list containing the smallest amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play. I'll take two cases. Firstly, I remember you talking about fraud or abuse at the time. I hear you say today that there is above all a difference in qualification. That seems to me to be something other than fraud and abuse. Secondly, you announced that the action should be worth EUR 250 million. I now have to say with you that this is just over a million dollars. So that seems to be a mistake, which will be felt strongly in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u10	Minister, on 18 January and 22 February I asked you about the application of the instruction. You stated that the aim was to avoid shopping and thus achieve uniform treatment for taxpayers. You stated that it is your opinion that this goal was achieved. I also asked you about the data by regional management, precisely in order to ascertain whether that objective had been achieved. I didn't get it then. For the last time, therefore, I am asking for these figures by regional management. I am asking for the figures that are automatically available: the number of files, the increase in the taxable base, the sums collected and the tax actually paid by management. Then I have a yes-no question for each of the five executives. You had indicated that there was a need for a great deal of research, but with a yes-no question that is not necessary. I'm not asking for all the files to be looked into and ripped out. I ask a simple yes-no question. Was the non-justified initial balance included in all the files? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u11	Mr Vanvelthoven, I refer to the table I provided to the committee secretariat on 9 February 2017. In it you will find a detailed and quantified answer to your first five questions. It concerns the situation by regional management, as requested by you. To your yes-no question, the answer is negative, so no. For the sake of completeness and to the extent necessary, I would also like to point out that each dossier must be assessed on the basis of its own specific, so-called constituent elements. The BBI is currently carrying out an analysis of the 1 862 files involved through data mining.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The table was recently delivered to the committee? I haven't seen it yet. I'd like to receive it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u13	Mr President, Minister, before the two weeks of Easter holidays, I had already asked you a series of questions concerning the investments of the Belgian State via the SFPI. Thank you for the answers and the time your firm has devoted to them. We are reviewing all the answers. In the meantime, many issues remain outstanding. I'd like to go back to the main ones. With regard to the investment of SFPI in sustainable development, you said to me that "the 'environmental impact' element is always the subject of special attention". But the answer said nothing more. For us, and I hope for all colleagues, the ecological issue is paramount. It is important to emphasize that sustainable development is not just a federal jurisdiction. This is a primary cross-cutting competence. Your government is supposed to follow a sustainable development plan. I also wanted to come back with you to the directors appointed by the SFPI, and thus representing the federal state within BNP Paribas. You say that the directors of the Board of Directors of BNP Paribas proposed by the SFPI are independent, but that a consultation is organised on a regular basis. I'd like to know more. Minister, how is the "environmental impact" element taken into account in the investments of the SFPI? Who's in charge? What procedures exist to ensure that this element is objectively taken into account? Who are the directors of the Board of Directors of BNP Paribas proposed by the SFPI? How does their participation in the board work? How does the "concertation" with these administrators work in practice? Also with regard to the directors proposed by the Belgian State, what about the board of directors of Euronext, in which SFPI is also a shareholder on behalf of the Belgian State? These are the same questions as those asked for BNP Paribas: how does the consultation work? What are the proposed guidelines? On what basis are they proposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u14	Mr Vanden Burre, to answer your first question, know that for investments, the SFPI must seek a fair balance between the financial and societal aspects of the files before it. In the case of each investment in a company, the SFPI must not justify that each of the following investment criteria is either irrelevant to the firm or met by the company, which would increase and slow the process. It must, on the other hand, make a global assessment. The SFPI should first ensure the profitability of the investment, on the understanding that this profitability must be assessed in the light of the sector concerned and can be assessed in the medium to long term. For the totality of its investments, the SFPI will ensure a sound distribution of risks. In addition to the financial criteria for investments, the SFPI shall, as far as possible, pay particular attention to the following societal criteria: 1. Social utility of goods and services produced; 2. Employment-creating development policy; 3. Measures for compliance with legislation and general regulations; 4. Ethical aspects; 5. Respect for environmental aspects; 6. Aspects related to respect for human rights; 7. Consumer rights aspects. The procedures are reflected in the company's investment charters. In the case of directors, Messrs. Michel Tilmant and Wouter De Ploey are directors of BNP Paribas proposed by the Belgian State by decision of the government but serving as independent directors. It is clear that contacts are maintained with these independent directors in a fairly regular manner. Mr Koenraad Dom is one of the three directors representing the consortium of which the SFPI is a member alongside the following institutions: BNP Paribas, BNP Fortis, Société Générale, Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations, BPI France, Novo Banco, Banco BPI, ABN Amro, ASR Nederland and Euroclear, on the board of directors of Euronext. A committee composed of the representatives of the above-mentioned institutions meets regularly with the management of Euronext.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as investments are concerned, it is clear from your responses that the main focus in the decision-making of the SFPI is on profitability. It seems to me that, in the investments of the SFPI which we have been able to consult in detail, profitability is by far the most important factor. Today, many investment funds abroad (sometimes also pension funds) are increasingly highlighting environmental, ethical and societal criteria. We believe that this is essential. Campaigns on this subject are being conducted more and more regularly. I had recently referred to the Divestment campaign, which is a massive disinvestment campaign in fossil fuels. These global movements are growing more and more and we would like to see the Belgian financial instruments - the SFPI as far as the Federal Republic is concerned. We will come back to this issue in the near future because we believe that a public investment tool should, in the 21st century, take precedence over the environmental and social impacts of its investments in addition to profitability, which is also important. We must have the same level of attention for these different elements. As far as administrators are concerned, in my view, the procedure remains unclear. I guess the contacts are regular. All right. But in terms of guidelines or levers available to the federal government, since the latter has two directors in a group such as BNP Paribas, we wonder what their role and impact is when we see the decisions taken by the group with regard to Belgium but also with regard to international investments. We will also have the opportunity to return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u16	Minister, in the context of the preparation of the 2017 budget, it was decided to increase the stock market tax. During the discussion, you made it very clear that even those who trade securities through a legal construction would not be able to escape the stock market tax. Now that statement is being challenged by a number of tax lawyers. That's why I'm going to present this to you again. Can you confirm that all orders by legal structures whose beneficial owner or more generally the founders referred to in Article 2, § 1, 14° of the WIB are resident in Belgium are subject to the Belgian Stock Exchange tax? If that is not the case, are you planning to repair the legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u17	Mr Vanvelthoven, as far as the tax on stock exchange transactions is concerned, there has been some confusion in the meantime. The second paragraph of Article 120 of the Code provides for various rights and taxes to be applied abroad when the order for the operation is given directly or indirectly to an intermediary established abroad, either by a natural person residing in Belgium or by a legal person on behalf of a seat or an establishment in Belgium. In order to include all legal arrangements set up by a person who has his habitual residence in Belgium within the scope of the TOB, legislative action should be taken, since this is an extension of the scope of the TOB or the tax on stock exchange transactions. The stock exchange fee, on the other hand, is due where a legal arrangement as separate assets or as a separate legal entity does not correspond to reality and is simulated or fake. The orders shall then be deemed to be made from the assets of the "Founder Founder' himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation and the distinction you make between the two situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u19	The next item is an evergreen, a question about the caiman tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u20	Mr President, Minister, we have already discussed the Cayman tax in previous meetings. For discretionary trusts, unlike foundations and offshore companies, the benefits are not taxable. This is also confirmed in several recent rulings. In my view, the preparatory work of the law does not justify the different treatment of discretionary trusts, on the one hand, and foundations and offshore companies, on the other. Moreover, foundations as target assets have a strong similarity to trusts, much more than with offshore companies. Do you agree with me, Minister, that discretionary trust payments should also be taxable under the third-beneficiary, as is the case with all other legal arrangements? Secondly, are you planning an adjustment of the Cayman tax, for example by adjusting Article 18, 3° of the Income Tax Code?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u21	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, the difference between a trust and a foundation or a company is that the latter are legally separate legal entities. A trust, on the other hand, will, depending on the foreign law that governs that trust, have legal personality or not. If a trust, according to the foreign law governing that trust, has legal personality and is engaged in profitable transactions, that trust shall be treated fiscally as a company and the benefits to a resident of a state shall be qualified as a dividend. If a trust, under the foreign law governing that trust, has legal personality and is not engaged in profitable transactions, that trust shall be treated fiscally as a legal person subject to the tax of a legal person and the assets distributed to a resident of the state shall also be classified as a dividend. In most cases, according to the foreign law that governs that trust, the trust will not be a separate legal entity, with the result that that trust will be treated fiscally transparently in accordance with the provisions of Belgian national law. If a trust is created by a natural person, and a benefit is paid to another resident, this transaction will be fiscally qualified as a hand gift between two natural persons. Such a gift does not indeed constitute a taxable income for the recipient. I can assure you that my cabinet and the administration of the Treasury are constantly monitoring the operation of the Cayman tax. Don't forget that it is a new legislation and that so-called loopholes are constantly being sought. We will do all we can to maintain the return on this measure and, if necessary, to close loopholes that are clearly being discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I agree with you that it is important to constantly monitor the application of the Cayman tax, because there are, indeed, constant attempts to choose, I shall say, the least burdened road and to avoid the use of the Cayman tax. That was not the intention of the legislator, so it is good that you screen it. I understand that, in this case, you believe that what needs to be grasped and that there should not be any immediate adjustment in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u23	Mr Minister, I will explain a little more than in the written record of my question, because it only includes the question, I see. Flanders was the first to finish the housing bonus after the state reform. This means that new mortgage loans concluded this year for their own home produce 330 euros less tax benefits per borrower each year than in Wallonia and 490 euros less than in Brussels. In the Flemish Region, the housing bonus still entitles to a tax reduction of EUR 912, which is 40% of the capital repayments paid and interests up to EUR 2 280. That amount shall consist of a basic amount of EUR 1 520 with an increase of EUR 760 during the first 10 years of its term. That's the situation for your own home. When it comes to the purchase of a second residence for which a loan is made, the taxpayer is obviously not entitled to the housing bonus, but such a loan also provides a tax advantage; we call that the tax reduction for long-term savings. The federal government grants a tax advantage equivalent to 30% of the capital repayments up to a maximum of EUR 2 260. This seems to be less than the housing bonus, but in many situations it is different, because in addition to the reduction for capital repayments, interest rates are also tax deductible. This interest deduction will soon yield EUR 1 000 for the taxpayer. In other words, the federal tax advantage for a second home can be a lot higher than the Flemish tax advantage for the first home. I don't think this was meant to happen. The main aim was to give the largest tax advantage for the first house, its own house. The situation now means that in a number of cases this is no longer the case. Are you planning to intervene here in some way, legislative if you have to?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u24	Mr Vanvelthoven, since the sixth state reform, the Regions have exclusive competence to allow tax reductions and tax credits for the acquisition or maintenance of their own homes. They may decide autonomously to modify, increase, reduce or even, as was the case recently in the Brussels-Capital Region, delete them altogether. The federal government remains competent to provide benefits for the acquisition of the non-own property. The acquisition of a second home can be regarded as an investment and/or as the construction of a supplementary pension in the third pillar and is therefore indeed a federal competence. In concrete terms, the answer to your question as to whether legislative work is planned is no at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u25	Mr Minister, apart from the example, tax rules mean that the second home can benefit from a higher tax advantage than the first home. Tax lawyers have also written articles on this subject. Minister, I realise that it is not entirely in your hands, because it is the result of the sixth state reform. Only I feel like it's not what we all wanted. I understand, however, that you do not immediately see the solution, in so far as you would already believe that there is an undesirable effect in this regard. Thank you, however, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the previous decision No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is a company in Curaçao which transfers its registered office to Belgium. The ruling states that in 2004 an agreement was granted by the tax authorities in Curaçao confirming that the profit is taxed at less than 3%, i.e. 3% tax. That agreement runs until 2019. However, our ruling committee considers that this tax is of a similar nature to the Belgian tax. As a result, the accumulated reserves in Belgium are considered to be sufficiently taxed. In other words, these reserves are classified as taxed reserves and not as exempt reserves subject to corporation tax as soon as the inviolability condition of Article 190 is not complied with. The exemption in Belgium is in principle provided for in order to avoid double taxation, but in this particular case it is more like double non-taxation in my view. Belgian companies repatriating foreign profits to Belgium must meet a rate of 15% to exempt foreign profits in Belgium through the DBI deduction. That the repatriation of profits from Curaçao, taxed at less than 3%, is, in my view, at odds. It is interesting to note that the company in Curaçao would be covered by the Cayman tax if its seat were to remain there. This is also implicitly confirmed by the ruling service in this ruling. Indeed, the effective tax rate of 3% is clearly lower than the 15% that the Cayman tax considers to be the limit between sufficiently taxed or not, and thus between being subject to the Cayman tax or not. With this ruling one escapes the caiman tax by transferring seat to Belgium. However, it is clear from the explanatory memorandum to the Cayman tax that the legislator considers a transfer of seat as a liquidation and that the Cayman tax would therefore apply. Moreover, the ruling service confirms that the general anti-abuse clause cannot be applied because there would be no abuse. That's kind of the sketch of this ruling. Firstly, how do you explain that an effective tax of 3% or less can be regarded as a tax of a similar nature to the Belgian tax? Secondly, do you agree with me that this cannot be the intention and that there should be a change of law in order to avoid such situations? Thirdly, how do you explain that, contrary to what the Cayman Tax Explanatory Memorandum states, the transfer of seat described in this ruling is not considered to be liquidation? Do you agree with me that this actually goes against the will of the legislator? If the reasoning of the ruling service is correct, do you agree with me that the caiman tax should be repaired in this area? Fourthly, the story of this ruling points in everything to tax abuse. I therefore find it remarkable that the ruling service excludes tax abuse. This puts the administration out of play to deal with this abuse. Do you agree with me that the ruling service has been very quick here? What investigation has the ruling service carried out to rule out tax abuse in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u27	Mr Vanvelthoven, this question, as you yourself pointed out, relates to a recently published ruling concerning the proposed transfer of the seat, of the real management, of a company from Curaçao to Belgium. The company is a family holding company whose working companies are now mainly located in Belgium. However, the ruling service, the Prior Decision Service, did not make a ruling on this issue, and that is of course crucial in the whole argument on the application of the Cayman tax. Therefore, in my opinion, your concerns about the caiman tax and everything related to it are unfounded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u28	Minister, you are responding to the issue and I will come back to it. I would like to know whether or not you think it is normal that the rate of 3% should be regarded as similar to the Belgian tax in this case. That is the essence of my question. By referring to the caiman tax, I mean that 15% is used as a limit in the context of this tax. So this is much less about whether or not the caiman tax is applicable. We have set the bar at 15%. The rate of 3% is far below that. Parliament has recently expressed its views on the Cayman tax. I will come back to this. After all, I am not okay with the ruling service finding that a tax of 3% is considered to be similar to our taxes. I'm not okay with that. You're either okay with that, and you can say that, but we disagree. Either you are not okay with that and then you or Parliament should take an initiative to avoid such a situation and rule out such rulings in the future. That's what my question is about. I therefore suggest that you reconsider this with your administration and that we return to it shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u29	Merged questions Nos 16952 by Mr Dedecker and 17421 by Mr Van den Bergh will be converted into written questions at their request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u30	Minister, on 16 March 2007, the then Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister, in response to an oral question by Mr Nollet, stated that the depreciation period for solar panels should be established in consultation with the taxpayer and the valuation service. Meanwhile, statements have already been made, including by the Antwerp court on 12 January 2015, that the depreciation period of solar panels should always be 20 years, i.e. the minimum duration of use. However, the imposition of a fixed depreciation period of 20 years is difficult to reconcile with the finding that the conditions determining the economic and technical depreciation of these panels, as well as the conditions of use, may vary considerably, as expressed at the time by the then Finance Minister. In addition, the application of a fixed depreciation period of 20 years in taxation means that only investments in solar panels are made, since for all other depreciation periods there is always an agreement between the valuation service and the taxpayer as a brake to switch to new energy systems with battery storage. Minister, I would like to hear from you whether investments in photovoltaic solar panels should always be subject to a depreciation period of 20 years. Do you not think that, given the current circumstances, a more flexible arrangement would be appropriate, as was the case ten years ago? Are you prepared to give new instructions to your administration and, if necessary, to have an administrative circular issued?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u31	Mr Van Biesen, I would like to endorse the answer given by the Minister of Finance at the time to Parliament's question No. 1594 of 28 February 2007. There is no generally applicable depreciation rate in relation to photovoltaic solar panels because the conditions of use of these panels are already extended to alluders which determine the economic and technical depreciation of these panels, as well as the conditions of use in themselves, may vary greatly. The depreciation rate should therefore, in principle, be determined by agreement between the taxpayer and the valuation agent, as is also the case for reasonable other investments in the facts. My answer to your question will also be a directive for the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament Ms Jiroflée's 17040 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Caprasse's 17047 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Caprasse's 17109 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u34	Mr Minister, the plan to combat tax fraud in December 2015 states that the Minister for Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud, will carry out a cost-benefit analysis of the Dutch system of horizontal supervision of large companies and, if necessary, take initiatives to ensure that the benefits of this system can also be realised in Belgium. This is mentioned in the 2016 FPS Finance Board Plan. I quote: "After consultation in 2015 with the VBO, the rating professions and several large companies, a feasibility study has been proposed and an action plan has been drawn up for this purpose. In 2016 we will carry out the feasibility study and we will issue an opinion on whether or not to introduce horizontal monitoring or carry out an additional study. Has the feasibility study been completed? What are the conclusions? Can we have access to the study?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u35	Mr Vanvelthoven, the feasibility study to which you refer has now been carried out in the first phase. The raw results should now be further evaluated and validated. The study analyses the adjustments in the Belgian context concerning, for example, the target group, the processes, the staff, the culture and so on. This took into account the expected efforts, both from the administration and from the companies, and the benefits for both parties. A series of recommendations and subsequent steps have also been formulated in the study to be carried out before the start of the pilot phase or during the pilot phase. As soon as the feasibility study is fully completed, I will of course be happy to share it with the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u36	Minister, do you have any idea when the study will be finalized?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u37	I can inform you about this, but I cannot tell you directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u38	I'm glad to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u39	Minister, on an earlier oral question concerning the establishment of the register of beneficial owners, following the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, you replied that the register will be set up and managed by the Treasury of the FPS Finance. As regards access by persons and organisations that can demonstrate a legitimate interest, you referred to the condition that those persons or organisations should have suspicions of fraud, corruption, money laundering or terrorist financing. In a later reply to another oral question, you stated that the General Administration of the Treasury will investigate and verify that the conditions of access are met. These include the legitimate interest, the information for which access to the register is granted and the institutions and/or persons who have access. I understand that on 5 July 2016, the European Commission submitted a proposal to make the register of beneficial owners public. I would like to hear from you what progress has been made today with the establishment of the register. When will the register be operational? Will the deadline laid down in the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive be met? Should a legal basis for the register be adopted in advance? If so, when will the draft be submitted to the Chamber? How is the concept of legitimate interest defined? How should anyone be able to demonstrate that he or she suspects fraud, corruption, money laundering or terrorist financing in order to gain access to the register? What is the Belgian Government's position on the proposal to publish the register?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u40	Mr Vanvelthoven, as regards the state of play regarding the establishment of the register of beneficial owners, I can confirm that the preparation of the text of the Royal Decree is at an advanced stage and that several meetings have already taken place with the Privacy College of the FPS Finance to determine which points require special further attention. I can also confirm that technical analyses were carried out which are necessary for the submission of the tender and the start of work on ICT by the computer company responsible for the development of the application. A first meeting was held with that company which identified the products needed and what price offerings and what delivery period would be used. It is planned that the application will be operational by mid-2018. As regards the transposition of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, discussions took place in inter-kabinette working groups and the text was sent to the Finance Inspectorate for advice. The preliminary draft will be submitted to the Chamber as soon as possible so that the law can enter into force before the transposition date, 26 June 2017, has expired. All the legal bases required for the establishment of the Royal Decree and the introduction of the register of beneficial owners were included in the preliminary draft law transposing the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. In relation to the concept of legitimate interest, the most appropriate definition is sought, taking into account the case law and evolution of that concept. A favourable idea includes the requirement that legitimate interest should be related to one of the objectives of the law, namely the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Meanwhile, the European Parliament has proposed amendments to give the register public access. Before taking any further steps towards finalising the Royal Decree, the results of the consultations between the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission will be awaited under the current Maltese Presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u41	Minister, I understand that you wish to submit the preliminary draft to the Chamber as soon as possible. Did I also understand correctly that you only want to grant the tax authority access to the register in the case of money laundering and terrorism, when, for example, there are insufficient grounds for suspecting fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u43	Minister, we will, of course, have the opportunity to discuss the preliminary draft, but I would nevertheless like to call for a broader definition of the conditions, as Minister responsible for the fight against tax fraud. I believe that the tax register can also be very useful for other forms of tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u44	We turn to questions Nos 17067 and 17068 by Mr Calomne. Mr Gilkinet then proposed that we deal with agenda item 32, namely questions Nos. 17202 and 17821 by Mr Gilkinet, 17036 by Mr Dispa, 17798 by Mr Laaouej and 17818 by Mr Klaps. Since Mr Dirk Janssens was absent, his question No 17179 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u45	Mr. Chair, Minister, the FPS Finance services would be currently under discussion with representatives of the Airbnb platform in order to facilitate the tax control of its users. In this sense, verifications would be planned with respect to landlords of property in order to detect those who would not report rental income from this type of digital economy. When asked about this, the company's spokesperson has clearly expressed reservations about the scope of the negotiations. I quote: "The sharing of data about users can only take place after a valid legal request, in accordance with the Privacy and Data Protection Act. We take legal procedures seriously and react accordingly. There is no agreement with the FPS Finances on the sharing of personal data." Minister, do you confirm the existence of discussions between your services and the Airbnb platform? Where appropriate, what is the state of play of these discussions and, consequently, the possible decisions envisaged by the different parties? To the extent that data sharing should be effective, how will the control mechanism be orchestrated? What levels of rental income are directly affected beyond a tolerance threshold? Will warnings be issued prior to the issuance of fines? Do you have an assessment of the loss of profits for the Public Treasury of non-reporting of rental income of this type?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u46	Mr President, Mr Calomne, the National Research Centre of the FPS Finances has indeed had contact with the representative of Airbnb in order to explain to him the Belgian tax legislation which requires any VAT taxable person to file an annual statement of the taxable and identified VAT customers with whom he has achieved a turnover of more than 250 euros excluding VAT. However, this statement should not include customers who only carry out transactions exempted by Article 44 of the VAT Code, even if they have a Belgian VAT identification number. Airbnb, as a taxable person, must therefore also communicate the VAT number and turnover of all taxable persons who, via its website, regularly make rooms available according to a "chambre d'hôte" formula. These customers have an obligation to be identified with VAT, where appropriate under the duty-free scheme if their turnover does not exceed EUR 25 000. On the other hand, the turnover of customers who, via the Airbnb website, simply rent real estate, should not be mentioned in this list, since these are exempt transactions for which, in principle, no VAT identification is required. In addition, it is recalled that both the VAT Code and the Income Tax Code determine that any person is required to provide to the tax administration, verbally or in writing or on behalf of third parties, any information requested of him or her for the purpose of verifying his or her tax situation. Any income earned by a person who rents immovables is, in principle, subject to tax whether or not the activity is of a professional nature. The professional nature of the activity must be assessed on a case-by-case basis on the basis of a set of facts, such as the method of acquisition of the property, the existence or non-existence of loans, the number of rented buildings, the commercial methods used, the size of the activity, etc. In case of doubt, either on the tax classification of income or on VAT obligations, the person concerned may obtain information from an accountant or his or her tax controller. An assessment of loss of profits for the public treasury is very difficult to make, since the potential taxpayer taxable person is also entitled to deduct certain costs. But one of my administration's duties is to prevent unfair competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u48	Mr President, Minister, a number of Brussels local elected officials have spoken in the press to highlight the recurring problems of delays in the processing of files by the FPS Finances. In fact, the municipal authorities are competent to verify that the cadastral income of the buildings situated on their territory is in line with reality. Nearly half of the Brussels municipalities have sent inquiries for several months to property owners in categories 0 (no heating or sanitary facilities) and 1 (no heating or sanitary facilities) to verify the situation. So far, these checks have been rather satisfactory, as an average increase of 160 to 250 euros is reported for the owners concerned, with an average response rate between 80 % and 90 %. In Brussels City, for example, the municipal authorities expect an increase in revenue of around EUR 1.5 million. However, the FPS Finance services are expected to encode and process files submitted by the municipalities. The latter do not change the cadastral income themselves, but they transmit the data collected to the federal authorities, which determine the amount of the income. However, many local elected officials believe that the FPS Finance services would unfortunately not be able to keep up with the pace. In this regard, I quote Molenbeek-Saint-Jean Finance Minister: "The SPF does not have the ability to forecast us. For lack of staff, it cannot keep up with the pace we impose." An identical bell sound emanates from other communes whose representatives have been quoted in the press. Minister, can you confirm the difficulties of FPS Finance in managing cadastral income files? If so, what are the main causes of this situation? What is the current backlog? Do you have an estimate of the related budget data? What measures are being taken to support the work of federal agents and enable them to carry out their mission in the best possible conditions, including the expeditious processing of cases submitted by municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u49	Mr Calomne, the general equalization of cadastral income dates back to 1980. Since then, the municipalities have not systematically monitored changes in the comfort of the houses. The radical measures taken at the moment by the municipalities lead to a massive flow of information. It is understandable that the administration cannot absorb such an increase in the volume of information in real time. Delays are being addressed. In addition, of the 10,000 files sent by the municipalities, 6,555 have already been processed by the administration. The budgetary consequences relate to the revenue of the real estate discount, which depends on the additional communal cents. Unfortunately, a forecast cannot be determined. The Measures & Evaluations Administration, formerly known as "Cadastre", has taken steps in terms of simplification in order to speed up the updating of the documentation and hence the re-evaluation of the cadastral income concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u50	Mr Minister, I note that the delay is being addressed, since about two thirds of the 10,000 files sent by the municipalities have been dealt with. Therefore, I can only encourage you to speed up the pace of the positive measures you have taken. I hope that this delay will be filled as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u51	Mr President, Minister, I was asking you a few weeks ago about the matter that has been before us since the Dexia crisis. Your opinion and intentions are changing very quickly or, at the very least, you have managed to make it a soap opera. First, a hypothesis, and more specifically, in the Tijd, a few weeks ago, a statement that an entry into the stock market should take place within two years. More recently, in Echo, you announced that you would table in the next few weeks on the Kern table a note containing different scenarios reflecting the evolution of the shareholdership of the Belfius bank, with a preliminary debate within the Management Committee, with several assumptions of partnership, of introduction to the stock exchange or of a combination of the two. Mr Minister, one can really ask about this acceleration of the timetable, about these multiple communications, beyond the interest for Belfius and for Belgium, to bring this bank into the stock exchange. Should banks be listed on the stock exchange? Is this not a way to increase short-term pressures and encourage risk-taking? Unfortunately, this has been observed in the context of the banking and financial crisis that led to Dexia. The question is whether we have learned all the lessons from it. In addition, the objectives of a public bank that is very attentive to the financing of the real economy, which operates a little differently, is the preferred partner for local authorities, which makes strategic choices in the medium or long term, as other banks do in other countries. I am thinking of the example of KfW Bank in Germany. It is easier to achieve with a 100% public shareholding and a true vision, as we ask for for the future of Belfius. My questions are about your intentions. Is it personal intent or are you supported by the government? As for the concrete proposals you seem to be working on, who has put them in place? Are they external consultants? Have they been paid? If so, how high? What do you think are the advantages and disadvantages of an entry into the stock market? Do you study in the same way a potential market entry and the scenario of keeping all Belfius shares in the federal state portfolio, with a real medium-term development strategy? Do you have a decision schedule with the government? Does the scope of the discussion include reflection on ensuring employment and preserving the role of Belfius in financing local authorities and SMEs, which are the fabric of the real economy? If so, even if you will have understood that we do not support this scenario, what would be the expected recipe for such an entry into the stock market and a resale of part of Belfius' shares? What exactly would it be affected by?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u52	Mr Minister, we can first of all welcome the good results of the bank that were presented in fiscal year 2016 since they allowed the federal government to pay a dividend of 215 million euros unless it was wrong, with perhaps a prospect of an increase in the future. Following the presentation of these results, the assumption of partial privatisation of Belfius was made. The Bank's Board of Directors and Management Committee have expressed support for such a perspective. This would allow, according to the arguments they have developed, an increase in capital and new prospects in terms of governance, with the arrival of representatives of private shareholders on the board of directors. You yourself, Minister, have pleaded not to wait too long for Belfius to enter the stock market. In my turn, I would like to ask you a series of questions. We're not really in a debate, but at least it would be interesting if you could provide some information on the status of the scenario you're working on. First, can you confirm that you are working on a partial or complete privatisation scenario for Belfius? Will the State remain a majority shareholder? Is it your will or not? Have you discussed this scenario in the government? Has a position been taken at the Kern or government level on this scenario? In the event of partial or complete privatisation, do you also work on the path of an entry into the stock market? How do you feel about the bank's local anchoring? It is known that, historically, Belfius Bank, under previous names, has been an important player in the local world. Is this local anchor a component that you think is important to keep? In terms of governance, since the argument was raised, what would you see as the benefits if private shareholders had to have representatives on the board of directors? Are you considering imposing a minimum price for the sale of government shares? What would be the impact on public finances? My last question is not directly related to this case, but we know that the Belfius case is not entirely separate from that of Ethias: is the assumption of a buy-back of Ethias still being considered? Have any conclusions been drawn in the Ethias case at this stage? I thank you in advance for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to repeat all the questions of my colleagues, as many of our questions come together. Minister, I will not turn around the pot. I have the impression that, in this case, your speech has changed considerably. When you took office, you did not exclude the possibility of a privatisation of Belfius. Subsequently, having taken the time to become aware of the way Belfius was managed, you observed, like everyone else, that Belfius displayed good financial health and distributed comfortable dividends. You said that the privatisation of Belfius was not really on the agenda. And more recently - and this is what is being debated today - you are visibly going back to your approach and analysis and considering, this time, the possibility of partial privatisation of Belfius, the press even mentioning the possibility of selling it to a foreign operator at the same time as a stock exchange. Mr. Minister of Finance, I am not going to go by four paths. Aren't you thinking about how you're going to reduce public debt? We can see that you haven't been able to do this for three years. This is even the opposite; the public debt has increased since the beginning of the legislature. Revealing Belfius would bring you a comfortable repayment and a arrival of comfortable capital that you could assign to the government's deleveraging. Basically, isn't that what motivates your new approach, especially taking into account the political doctrine or ideology that is yours and that you have explained here many times? For, in the end, having a state that deals with the economy and in particular with public financial action is not necessarily the most consistent with the way you view the economy more generally in a particularly liberal approach, to say no more. So, basically, there is not at the same time a budgetary objective (the deleveraging of the State) which follows a purely ideological approach to the economy, by saying, like others, that the Belgian State is not intended to be a banker. However, I would like to point out to you that Belfius, on the contrary, is a remarkable opportunity for the State to have some kind of leverage in the economy, in the recovery, in the financing of SMEs, in the financing of households and in the financing of public authorities. So we have to think twice before we even partially release ourselves from such a tool. I invite you to think carefully also about the aspects, not of deleveraging but of the evolution of the structural deficit from the moment when Belfius brings you a comfortable dividend, which you could lose by privatizing it. In addition, this would not offset the decrease in the interest burden associated with deleveraging because you would inject part of the capital obtained from resale into debt relief. Did you calculate the balance between the smallest dividends on the one hand and the least interest burden on the other? I am not sure that at this stage you have done so, except perhaps to show us that the operation, from the point of view of the structural deficit, would be positive for the State as a whole. Then, can you tell us today whether or not there is, behind this new Belfius approach, the ARCO dossier and its regulation? Is the partial resale of Belfius somehow linked to the settlement of the ARCO file? We observe different scenarios in which Belfius would buy one or the other of the various and varied structures for the removal of ARCO in order to be able to recapitalize and return value to the shares of the cooperators. Can you say today that there is absolutely no link between Operation Belfius and the settlement of the ARCO file?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u54	Of course, Minister, I will not repeat everything. However, it will not be surprising that my approach is different from that of Mr Laaouej. After all, if I follow his reasoning, I wonder why we are not buying up all the banks that offer an equally good dividend. It may be a way to regulate the state's income in his philosophy. Mr Laaouej, you must be consistent. If one bank is good for the economy, why don't we buy them all? That would be much better, and so we could optimise. All madness on a stick, we sit with Belfius, after the Dexia debacle a few years ago. Fortunately, Belfius has once again become a strong and well-run bank. We must not forget that this growth has come about because we have made a division between the good part, which is the Belgian bank, and the rest, which has remained in Dexia and unfortunately still hangs around our necks like a millstone for many years to come. Banking does not seem to me to be the main public task. It is therefore logical that at some point we will have to look at the way in which we can again privatise the bank in full or in part. There are different ways of doing that. You have read in the press that there are currently a number of options, such as an IPO, a strategic investor or a combination of both. We have heard from the press that after the Easter recess, so now, the file would be reviewed, albeit in the light of a partial scenario, so that the government would hold the majority of the shares for the time being. In the meantime, is there any more clarity as to which of the three slopes you mentioned in the newspaper is your preferred? What is the reasoning behind your preference? Is there a deadline within which you put the processing of the file first? What, in your opinion, could be the proceeds of such privatisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u55	As mentioned earlier, I believe that a distinction should be made between, on the one hand, my progressive understanding of the shareholder structure of Belfius and, on the other hand, my expectations of Belfius, as well as of other financial institutions in the field of good governance and corporate social responsibility. In terms of governance and sustainable social enterprise, I have always placed high demands on the banking sector. That hasn't changed at all. You are undoubtedly aware that there are clear legal obligations in terms of good governance. These apply not only to Belfius, but also to the other banks. I do not fail to stress the importance I attach to the social and economic role of the bank in the many contacts with those responsible for Belfius and, of course, also through the bodies in which representatives of the government are present, such as the General Assembly. I would also like to point out that a recent PAX report on the financing of the nuclear industry specifically identified Belfius as the better pupil of the class. Of course, as far as Belfius is concerned, I must also respect the legal governance arrangements and the requirements of the supervisors in terms of the well-defined powers of the management committee, the board of directors and the other bodies of the bank. However, I am confident that management is very aware that the economic and social expectations of our community vis-à-vis Belfius are considerable. There are, of course, many possible forms of partial privatization. With a view to anchoring Belfius in our country, so that the decision-making centre can remain in Belgium, we could possibly consider partial privatisation via an entry into the stock market, for example. On the one hand, this would reduce the significant exposure of authorities to the financial sector and would have a risk reduction effect. On the other hand, side effects could be avoided, while continuing to pursue the stated objectives. When we think of a case such as Belfius's, it is obvious that we are thinking, but not only, of budgetary effects, which, in the case of partial privatisation, result in a lack of dividends. It is obvious that this plays a role in our considerations. This also obviously affects the level of debt, before or after a partial privatisation, for example of Belfius. But I repeat that if these two elements are taken into account, it goes without saying that we are considering other points in this dossier. We are currently looking at all the avenues and we will soon begin a discussion within the government on this, as I announced a few days ago more explicitly. I come to Mr Laaouej's question about the ARCO file. I would only like to point out now that the work of the task force that has been installed for the ARCO file is ongoing and will continue over the coming days and weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u56	Minister, the ministers who are members of your party are determined to systematically handle the announcement effect. You say a lot to the press, and then nothing to parliament. In my view, this is an error with regard to Parliament, and this is problematic. I see the role of a minister and that of parliamentary oversight as implying the capacity to develop dialogue. This is probably a way for you to access the first pages of daily newspapers, mainly economic ones. This is, however, too serious a subject to be used solely for personal valuation purposes. You now fall behind the rules of communication, the primacy of the decision of the management and the organs of the bank. Now, you're planning the leaks to the different media! Yes, possibly a stock exchange of Belfius could reduce Belgium's exposure to the financial sector. But what would be the cost in terms of the ability to direct the bank towards local government financing missions, financing the real economy, keeping it under the pressure of financial markets, which are not always the best advisers? I think you need to reread the work of the Dexia Committee. You need to read the lessons learned from the financial crisis. You were a journalist at the time. You know them well. It is important that, in the banking landscape – most are private – one remains public and plays a different role. It's a model that works. I have regularly quoted from you the KfW Bank, which is a development bank in Germany, which is outside the stock exchange sector, which reinvests all its profits in order to make aid for energy efficiency of houses, development cooperation projects, etc. It is possible, with a little ambition and vision, to make Belfius a public bank with all the characteristics that such a bank has. There are models in Europe that are very positive in this area. I therefore ask you to stop the announcement effects and to affirm, with the members of the government, but there are members of the majority here around the table, that Belfius will have the means to develop a different model over time that will benefit our economy and the stability of the financial sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. Frankly, she was particularly evanescent. You stressed the societal role of banks, both Belfius and other banks. You mentioned the various possible forms of partial privatisation, the advantages, disadvantages and parameters to be taken into account, to conclude that all avenues are being examined and that the case will sooner or later come before the government. It doesn't teach us much about the options that you can defend yourself. This uncertainty that you maintain seems to me to be detrimental. I can understand some form of prudence, including politics in this case. Nevertheless, the test balloons you have launched and now the delays you are prolonging are a factor of insecurity, which is worse for a bank! I regret this answer, which is not one. On this issue, we must guard against an ideological approach. Mr Klaps's words are enlightening. Mr Klaps asked why not buy all the banks if the aim is to have a dividend? You thus demonstrate that the ideological approach leads to absurd conclusions. We can caricature positions. It is absurd to plead for a kind of nationalisation of the banking sector, as it is absurd to plead for an approach to total privatisation. I do not fit in with these considerations, because I want to be more pragmatic. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the few points which I hope will have to be taken into account in the government's decision: first of all, the banking crisis is not so far behind us. It is necessary to keep in mind what happened at the time. Putting everything to the private is exposing ourselves to new torments such as those we have experienced. The question of employment also seems to me to be extremely important when you did not mention it in your answer. Yet we know how painful employment in the banking sector in Belgium is. We need guarantees in this regard. You didn't say much either about the local and historical anchoring of the Belfius bank. This is an important element for all public actors in this country. An element far from any ideology, but which also seems important to me, is this form of pluralism in the banking sector. Without going into ideological considerations, having a strong public bank can be interesting in terms of governance, good practice and ethics when one knows how important banks are in the fight against tax fraud or, on the contrary, in the development of tax optimisation mechanisms. To have a public actor who can be relied upon to enable the whole sector to be managed more in line with our own requirements, particularly in the fight against tax fraud, does not seem to me to be entirely insignificant. I hope the government will take these considerations, these parameters, these criteria into account, rather than rushing to an ideological choice, a short-term budgetary choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u58	Minister, your answers are particularly disappointing on a major issue because it concerns a bank. This isn't about any bank. It is a bank that historically has a very special role, particularly in the support it has been able to provide and continues to provide to local authorities. I apologise for telling you, minister, but here we have some kind of "sweet" and "evasive" answer. "Vase", because it uses very general terms. It's not pejorative, because I see Mr. Piedboeuf reacts. Sometimes it's better to clarify one's thinking. "Waste" means we don't know very well, it's superficial. And it is "evasive", because you use answers that allow you not to answer the questions you are asked. This is a real problem! In detail, you explain how you're going to privatize. You say that we study several forms, that there are different ways of doing things. But you don't give us the reason you want to privatize. In other words, you tell us how to go on the moon, but not why you have to go. You don't answer that! We, what we want to know, are the reasons for privatization. You tell us that this avoids exposure to financial risks. However, you know that and we saw it with the financial crisis of 2008, private banks have done absolutely anything, apart from any serious control. They have brought us a global fiscal bankruptcy, a debt crisis, a rare economic and social crisis. The subprime crisis has increased our debt by €20 billion in a few months. We have had to find EUR 20 billion to recapitalise and, for the rest - and you are aware of the evolution of economic growth figures - the financial crisis has led to a long-term economic crisis and we have not yet recovered from it. We have not yet emerged from the crisis caused by the 2008 deflagration. So don't say that by privatizing, we're going to limit the government's risk of financial exposure. Not at all! There is absolutely no causal link between the State's strong public participation, having a public bank and, on the other hand, the inherent and intrinsic weaknesses of the financial market. There are two problems of a particularly different nature. Secondly, you tell us that budgetary considerations exist. I salute your frankness! You say that there are budget parameters but they are not the only ones to be taken into account. The question that arises and for which we still do not have an answer is whether these budgetary parameters are influential or determinative. What's going on? A certain vision that you have of the economy and the role of the state, probably motivated by ideological considerations, or the fact that you cannot defuse the state and therefore need cash quickly. There are no more many family jewels, apart from Proximus and Belfius. You think the easiest part is Belfius! At this stage, we still do not know whether the budgetary parameters you admit to exist are determinative or influential. In my view, they are decisive, given your lack of an answer to the economic explanation that drives your desire to privatize. You also do not answer questions about ARCO. You say that the task force is still in place and that its conclusions are expected. You do not deny that it is possible for Belfius to have a role to play in the settlement of the ARCO case. I ask you if there is a scenario involving Belfius in the ongoing discussions. And they won't make me believe that for such an important issue, politics don't interfere with what is happening in the task force! I imagine you have regular feedback and information. You do not answer this question and you continue to maintain a question, almost a certainty in substance, about the involvement of Belfius in the bailout of the co-operators by means of which you will certainly have the opportunity to come and talk to us when the time comes. The problem is not exhausted, far from it. We are also told that it is not necessary to have a public bank, that it does not bring anything in relation to private banks. I heard Mr. Klaps' cartoons. I don't agree! With a public bank, you have the opportunity to lay down a number of very precise rules of conduct, in particular on the determination of return on equity and to say, in the absence of pressure from a private shareholder, that what is important to you is the long term, not the short term! This completely changes the way finance is done. Depending on whether you want to have a cash return in the short, medium or long term, the deal is completely different, and the way you're going to manage your portfolios will change. On this point, if there is disagreement, then there is, fundamentally, in your approach, a lack of understanding of the functioning of financial markets, which would indicate that you did not learn any lessons from the 2008 financial crisis. In addition, a public bank, it is as many counters that are potentially available to the State if necessary. Look at the success of the Leterme loan, at a time when, for the Belgian State, it had become impossible, so expensive, to finance itself on the financial markets. There was a need for a public loan. A phenomenal success! This success, you don't have it if you don't have people who are able to offer loans, such as this Leterme loan or these state loans, to savers and investors. Having counters through a public bank also means giving a surface to the state in case of need, especially in case of deterioration of the financial environment. I'm still hungry, Mr. President. I consider that at this stage we are coming out of here with more questions than answers, and this is obviously not reassuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u59	Mr President, thank you for giving me one minute to reply, as my fellow Members have done. Minister, some of my fellow Members are complaining because you are careful in your reply. I wonder what they would say if the opposite happened. It's obviously an operation that won't be handled on one-two-three. It is logical that you have outlined the great contours and that you will look within them for the possibilities that will obviously still have to be tested at different levels. I am surprised at a number of statements made by my fellow Members. Mr Laaouej, you say that a bank which is at 100% a government bank will not be affected at all by a new banking crisis. So you say. She's staying out of that crisis. Well, Mr Laaouej, I fear that will not really be the case. It is clear that banking is an essential task in our society. We can't live without banks, but we can't live without a grocery store without power. It is difficult for us to privatise ENGIE, but it is difficult for us to privatise Carrefour, because these are all companies in which we can decide on the return on equity. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the kind of society I stand for. If we manage to sell part of Belfius and invest its proceeds wisely, among other things, the European Commission has called on us to invest more in infrastructure. Mr Laoouej, even without a state bank, we would still be able to issue a state certificate if we so wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u60	The discussion can be concluded here for the time being. You can always ask questions again, but we have heard from the government about the current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u61	Mr President, Minister, this is about another bank of which the Belgian State is a shareholder. On March 1, 2017, several French associations published a report in which they revealed BNP Paribas' support for the construction of a shale gas terminal in the United States. More specifically, this infrastructure, known as Texas LNG, which would cost about two billion dollars, would take place in the Rio Grande Valley. While in France hydraulic fracturing is prohibited for obvious environmental reasons, a French bank – but of which Belgium is the first shareholder – supports a project that is destructive for biodiversity and problematic for the climate. Moreover, according to the report cited, the local population, already suffering from great poverty, will have to bear the health costs of producing this shale gas and will see jobs in the fisheries and tourism sectors threatened. It is therefore an investment to be outlawed as part of a disinvestment policy that should be pursued by all banks and shareholder states of banks. Minister, what information do you have or what information have you been able to obtain from the directors representing the Belgian State about the investment I have just mentioned? Do you confirm this investment by BNP Paribas in the Texas LNG project? How high was BNP Paribas involved in this investment? Do you estimate this investment in line with the expectations of the Belgian state as the bank's first shareholder and in line with its own commitments to combat global warming and protect biodiversity? In general, what is BNP Paribas' policy on investment in fossil energy extraction? How is this policy formalized? Does it take into account the issues of disinvestment? What directives are given by the SFPI or by the government to directors representing the Belgian state – this joins the questions of my colleague Gilles Vanden Burre – so that BNP does not support projects that clearly run counter to the international commitments made by Belgium and France in environmental and climate matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u62	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, the specific issues fall within the competence of the Management Committee and are not discussed within the Management Board, taking into account the rules of good governance. The SFPI must also adhere to these rules and is not aware of specific files. I myself cannot intervene in operational decisions either with the administrators or with the SFPI, but it is clear that it is expected from the administrators representing the State and the SFPI that socially responsible undertaking occupies a central place in their reflections. Following information from BNP Paribas, I can confirm that the bank does not finance the Texas LNG project. The Commission has a mandate to advise on this project taken prior to the development of its energy transition financing strategy. BNP Paribas had already taken the decision in 2015 to no longer finance coal extraction, whether through mining projects or mining companies specializing in coal extraction and which do not have a diversification strategy. At the beginning of 2017, BNP Paribas decided to further strengthen its policy and no longer finance coal-fired power plant projects, regardless of the country in which they are located. This is an extension of the 2015 commitment that was limited to the projects of high-income countries. These commitments apply to existing customers of the group and may, in some cases, have the effect of no longer being able to accompany them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u63	Minister, I agree with you that a shareholder should not interfere with the day-to-day management of a bank. However, for subjects as emblematic as this one, it is important that shareholders set limits and send signals to the bank's managers that these projects are not desirable. Ideally, this type of commitment should be included in the bank's charters and fundamental options. You say this is the case. In the case of BNP Paribas, you state that Paribas is no longer a party to this project and I take note of it. I also note that this is in contradiction with the analyses carried out by the various NGOs. I call on the Belgian State, through its administrators, to foster dialogue between these NGOs and BNP Paribas, to strengthen BNP Paribas' commitments to environmental protection and the disinvestment of fossil fuels, and to make all the transparency on investment policies achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u64	Mr President, Minister, in 2004, the federal state established a National Contact Point for Multinational Enterprises, which is housed within the FPS Economy. It has been given an important role in ensuring compliance with the Guiding Principles of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). On the FPS Finance website, it is stated that the OECD Guidelines are recommendations on labour, human rights, supply chain responsibility, environment, consumer protection, competition, etc. The guiding principle of these principles is the responsibility of companies in society. It's pretty positive. This Contact Point is made up of employers' organizations, workers' organizations, representatives from the three Regions and federal public services, including the Finance Department. However, it is my responsibility that until 2016, no representative of your administration actually sat within the Contact Point. Minister, do you confirm that the FPS Finance was not represented at the National Contact Point until 2016? If so, how do you explain this deficiency? Why was it not filled earlier? Has this non-representation affected the ability of the Belgian State and the FPS Finances to enforce the OECD tax guidelines? What is now being implemented to address this deficiency? Who will now be the FPS Finance Representative at the Contact Point? What is his mission order?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u65	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, it appears from the information in my possession that the FPS Finances was represented at the National Contact Point until 2011. To date, I have not been informed of any negative consequences of this temporary non-representation on the ability of the Belgian State and the FPS Finances to enforce OECD tax guidelines. Moreover, within the FPS Finance, there is a "Foreign Investment Tax" unit responsible for providing information to multinational companies wishing to establish themselves in Belgium. At the same time, a procedure has been initiated for the designation of a new Contact Point for multinational companies. The name, as well as the order of mission of the FPS Finance representative at the National Contact Point will therefore be communicated very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u66	Minister, thank you. I take note of this information. The absence of the FPS Finance representative in this point of contact seems to me, whatever you say, problematic, since the principles I have set out are important and have a tax aspect. By whom could they be better defended than by a FPS Finance representative? I hear that this deficiency will be filled in the short term. I take note of this and will continue to pay attention to this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u67	Mr President, Mr Minister, article 29, paragraph 2, of the Code of Criminal Investigation stipulates that "the officials of the General Administration of Taxation, the General Administration of Collection and Collection, the General Administration of Heritage Documentation and the General Administration of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes may not, without the authorization of the General Counsel on whom they depend, bring to the attention of the Prosecutor of the King the acts criminally punishable under the tax laws and the decrees made for their execution". In other words, it requires the authorization of a general adviser to disclose to the justice system facts that are tax punishable. The presence of a Director-General within the department is therefore a sine qua non for an official to be able to report to the judicial authorities an offence of which he is aware. However, it appears that the FPS Finance Advance Rulings Service does not have a Director General. This particular feature of the organizational chart would therefore prevent the application of article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation by the said department in the event of the identification of tax evasion or punishable acts in tax matters. Minister, can you confirm the above interpretation that a member of the Advance Rulings Service cannot report a misdemeanour to the court in the absence of a General Counsel who can issue his or her consent to such a complaint? Have you been informed of this impossibility of taking legal action? By whom? When? Can you tell me what you intend to do (legislative or otherwise) to correct this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u68	Mr Gilkinet, I fear that your question is based on inaccurate information. First, staff members who work in the Advance Tax Rulings Service are only seconded to that service. They therefore always retain a place in their original administration in the structure, under the authority of a general adviser. In addition, there is a general adviser among the members of the College of the Advance Rulings Service. It is also the president of this college. He is therefore perfectly entitled to give his consent, if necessary, to make a denunciation in court. In conclusion, nothing therefore precludes the application of article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation by the Advance Rulings Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u69	Minister, I should have asked you if it was used regularly, but it will be for the next time. The beginning of your explanation is not convincing. I don't see a seconded official calling the director of his original administration to file a complaint. Nevertheless, I note that there is a general adviser, in this case the chairman of the College of Advance Rulings. Theoretically, this does not prevent it from being possible to file a complaint. Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u70	Minister, on February 17, the government issued a royal order, which includes plans to double the number of FPS Finance officers made available to prosecutors. According to your press release, this would increase the executive from 18 to 33 full-time employees. I would like to speak with you about the implementation of this provision. Of the 18 full-time equivalents currently planned, how many positions are actually filled? Within what time frame do you intend to implement this decision and effectively fill the 33 posts? How will FPS Finance officers be selected from the public prosecutor's office? Is it expected that this will take place on a voluntary basis? Will these officers be replaced in their current duties? How will the distribution of these agents be carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u71	Gilkinet, of the 18 seats scheduled, 14 are currently filled. The draft royal decree providing for an increase in the number of tax officers made available to prosecutors was approved by the Council of Ministers on 17 February 2017. After trade union negotiations and on the advice of the Council of State, this draft will be submitted to the King for signature. The new staff members will be able to take up their duties as soon as the procedure for making available is completed. This procedure is carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Articles 4 to 7 of the Royal Decree of 21 January 2007 laying down the procedure for making available to the Crown prosecutor or to the labour auditor, for the purpose of assisting them in the performance of their duties, officials of the tax administrations. A public prosecutor's office is always made available on a voluntary basis. According to Article 17 of this Order, the Minister of Finance may decide whether the employment of the official made available should be considered vacant, on the advice of the authority responsible for the Directorate-General of the tax administration concerned. FPS Finance officials will be allocated according to the quotas provided for in the draft Royal Decree, which provides for an increase in the number of tax officers made available to prosecutors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u72	Minister, thank you. I note that only 14 posts are currently filled. Given the complexity of tax matters, it seems to me important that each prosecutor have sufficient tax officers to handle these cases. I note that the replacement of these seconded officials is not yet automatic. It's a possibility. In view of the needs and specialization of the seconded persons, I find it important to fill, unless there is an exception (a reversal of the burden of proof in this case) to the replacement of these detached functions. It is recognized that the fight against tax fraud requires well-trained and knowledgeable forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u73	Mr.President, Minister, the FPS Finance communicated in the press on February 27th that the deadline for citizens to send out their stock market transaction reports was extended to June 30th, 2017. Thus, the deadline is longer, leaving among other things to Belgian citizens abroad or having passed through a foreign bank in order to carry out their stock exchanges, more time to respond to the demand of the SPF. This request for declaration is linked to the amendment of the stock exchange transaction tax published in the Moniteur on 22 February so that Belgian citizens' stock exchange transactions passing through a foreign bank are also taxed. In this case, a representative responsible for these operations must be appointed. The communiqué also states that the postponement of the filing of declarations means that Belgian citizens must also include in the latter the stock exchange transactions carried out between January and April 2017 for transactions carried out by foreign intermediaries and transactions between January and March 2017 for originators established or resident in Belgium. Minister, why was this extension extended? Is this the symptom of a difficulty in implementing the new system of taxation of stock exchanges? By what legal process can you allow the deadline for filing returns to be extended? Is the legal certainty of this postponement guaranteed? Can you tell us how foreign intermediaries responded to their new duty? Have reports of stock market transactions made by Belgian citizens via foreign operators already been submitted to the FPS Finances? If so, how many have already been received? For what amount? What will be the impact of these difficulties on the start-up of the new stock exchange transaction tax on expected new revenues? How much do you intend to reap through this new stock exchange tax provision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u74	Mr Gilkinet, the deadline has been extended to allow foreign professional intermediaries to appoint a responsible representative in accordance with the terms set out in the Royal Decree published on February 22, 2017. The deadline has also been extended in response to foreign operators' request for time to adapt their computer applications to include the exchange transaction tax (TOB). These foreign professional intermediaries thus signify their willingness to cooperate fully in the collection of the tax. In addition, a whole series of clarifications still need to be provided by the administration following the extension of the TOB. The principle of good administration guarantees sufficient legal certainty in this case. The extension of the deadline is part of a dual objective of compliance and efficiency. Indeed, accurate returns, even late returns, allow for a better collection of tax than returns made within the deadlines but in part incorrect. As I have just pointed out, the granting of a time limit should result in greater revenue or, at the very least, a reduction in the administrative burden once the tax payers have had more time to comply with the new provisions governing the TOB and thus to submit accurate declarations. The expected annual return of the measure is EUR 30 million. It is impossible for me to give you exact figures at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u75	I take note of the minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u76	Mr President, last July the European Commission came up with a proposal to combat tax evasion, and more specifically against trusts and front companies following the Panama Papers scandal that we are studying in the committee of inquiry of the same name. In this context, a draft European directive provides that information, within a register of economic beneficiaries of this kind of assembly, must be available to the competent authorities in this field, i.e. national tax administrations, as well as anti-money laundering and terrorism services. It is even a question of making this information available to any public. At the end of February, MEPs followed the Commission and endorsed this position. Thus, in the European political process, only the Council's decision remains. However, according to several observers, this could be caught because some Member States would be opposed to the draft directive. Among these are Great Britain, Luxembourg and Malta, in particular, as being in disadvantage of this draft public register of beneficiaries of companies-screens or trusts in tax havens. Minister, can you tell me what position Belgium has taken or will adopt at the European Council on this draft directive on more transparency on tax evasion? Will our country take any initiatives to facilitate the adoption of this project? Can you give us a timetable for negotiations in the Council? When do you think an agreement can be reached? When do you think this register can be set up? Pending an agreement, are bilateral initiatives undertaken by Belgium in order to exchange information with more cooperative countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u77	Mr Gilkinet, on 19 December 2016, the Council published the guidelines it will defend in the discussions on the draft directive amending Directive 2015/849. These guidelines were published before the European Parliament took a position. The trialogue discussion phase, i.e. the European Commission, the European Council and the European Parliament, began on 21 March 2017. Our country participates in these discussions constructively and is in close contact with the delegations of other member countries. The Maltese Presidency will defend the above-mentioned guidelines in these discussions and inform the delegations of the Member States. As regards the public nature of the register of beneficial owners, the compromise adopted by the Council specifies that access to that register will not be public but will be accessible, in addition to the supervisory authorities and entities subject in certain countries, to persons and organisations demonstrating a legitimate interest, as is currently the case in Directive 2015/849, which I have already mentioned. Although Belgium was not formally opposed to the Commission's original proposal, it supported the Council's general approach for reasons of proportionality of the system set up by this draft directive. There is currently no schedule for discussions. The progress of this text will depend on those discussions. We plan to set up an operational register of beneficial owners in the summer of 2018. Legislative, regulatory and technical work is under way. Our country applies the existing mechanisms for the exchange of information, allowing for the exchange of tax information between Belgium and third countries. Discussions will be held at European level on an exchange of information in the registers of beneficial owners of Member States and/or third countries. Interconnection of these registers at European level is also envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u78	Minister, thank you. This is a major issue and we expect Belgium not only to be followed up or worse, to put sticks in the wheels of this project, but rather to be a promoter of it. I hope that you will have this leading role, whether in the Ecofins or in other meetings in which you are taking part at European level, by convincing those who still have to do so and by setting an example at Belgian level on the exchange of information. This is essential in the fight against dumping and tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u79	Minister, this question is similar to the previous one. Since the beginning of his term as President of the United States, Donald Trump has signed a number of presidential decrees that have virtually all been debated; among them, a text allowing the construction of a pipeline between North Dakota and South Dakota. The debate has raged in American society because, in addition to going against the objectives of reducing fossil energy consumption, this pipeline crosses a natural reserve and a Sioux territory. Moreover, the Sioux have been opposed to this construction for years. We found in the Standaard pages that ING and BNP Paribas were among the banks that could invest in this project. This paper highlights the fact that the Dakota Pipeline Project will be funded primarily by the California Pension Fund Calpers, which is the largest pension fund in the United States. Calpers, who is a shareholder, asked ING and BNP Paribas banks by mail to invest in the Dakota project. ING wanted to communicate about this. The bank states, after meeting with a Sioux representative, that it would like to break the credit agreement, but that it is legally robust. BNP Paribas, which – I must not remind you – has as its first shareholder the Belgian state, has still not communicated on this subject. Minister, can you confirm BNP Paribas' investment in the Dakota project? How high is it? Do you confirm the sending of a letter from the California Pension Fund Calpers on this subject? What is the content? Has this investment been approved by the BNP Paribas Board of Directors? If so, how did the two representatives of the Belgian State vote on this board? Does this investment meet the rules set by BNP Paribas in terms of risk-taking, environmental impact and disinvestment? Should not the bank's internal investment rules evolve to minimize investment in fossil fuels? I asked you about this earlier in this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u80	Mr Gilkinet, the requirements of governance and those of the supervisory authorities do not allow shareholders to influence the bank's operational policy. In the light of the information available to me, I can confirm that BNP Paribas is one of the lenders of Dakota Access Pipeline. I understood that BNP Paribas Bank was aware of the stakes, as well as the need for the project's stakeholders, to engage in a constructive and lasting dialogue. The bank has confirmed to me that it is using all means at its disposal to move the dialogue process forward at the most satisfactory level for all parties concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is quite general in relation to a very specific object. I hope that BNP Paribas, in this case, will adopt the same offensive position as the bank ING and will do its utmost not to participate in the financing of this project, which is problematic for various reasons, and above all because of the need to disinvest fossil fuels. I hope, I repeat, that BNP Paribas will choose durable and explicit options in this area, under the impetus, in particular, of the two directors representing the Belgian state in the bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u82	Debates of the European Parliament 17201 by Mr Wouter De Vriendt has been converted into a written question. Questions Nos 17216 and 17223 by Mr Luk Van Biesen are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u83	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the issue of excise duties in the Benelux and the question of their harmonization. It is known that increases in excise duties on tobacco and alcohol, decided under the tax shift, have not produced the expected revenues. We're a long way from it. You stated that the impact of excise measures would be monitored on a monthly basis and that this study would determine whether or not a revision of excise rates was necessary. For his part, your colleague, Minister Kris Peeters, said that "tax shift on alcohol is a real dilemma". Indeed, this also boosted cross-border trade, which was not really the objective. Mr Peeters therefore considered that the solution would not involve a reduction in excise duties in Belgium and started discussions with his Dutch and Luxembourg counterparts. If I believe the statements made by Minister Peeters, we would therefore be on the way to a negotiation for the harmonization of excise duties in the Benelux. Minister, what does your monthly assessment of the budgetary impact of increased excise duties reveal? What are the figures that show the increase in cross-border trade? Have you been involved in the discussions mentioned by Minister Peeters? Within what time frame can one reasonably expect harmonisation, as mentioned by your colleague? If so, what would be the rate chosen for harmonisation: the Belgian, Luxembourg or Netherlands rate? What effects could be expected in budgetary terms? Finally, in the long run, could the aim be to harmonise excise duties on tobacco and alcohol with all our neighbours, and even within the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u84	Mr President, Mr Dispa, the monthly monitoring of budgetary measures actually shows that the expected revenues for alcohol and tobacco are lower than the estimated amounts. I do not have the figures and detailed data on cross-border trade. The customs and excise administration can only see the volumes and revenues in Belgium, inter alia in cross-border areas. Border shopping monitoring is the responsibility of the SPF Economy. Like you, I've learned about Minister Peeters' intentions through the newspapers. Harmonisation at EU level is very complex, given the different excise structures and the different rates applied by the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u85	Minister, thank you for your answer, which has the merit of being frank. I agree with your sentiment: it is a complex task. We can rejoice at the usefulness of the press, since it allows ministers to exchange their ideas by means of interposed newspapers. Perhaps in terms of governance, it would have been desirable for ministers to have more discussion on-line and to be able to agree on their plans or not. In any case, it seems to me that the debate is interesting and I hope that it can give rise to a more in-depth exchange of views within the government and then come to committee, whether in the Committee on Finance or in the Committee on the Economy. We are not there yet, as the minister's response suggests that there is still a long way to go to harmonize not only excise rates but also the views of ministers on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u86	Mr President, Minister, I certainly do not want to give the impression that I want to be moral. However, the press recently mentioned a potential conflict of interest within your firm. Indeed, several of your employees would have tax consultancy activities, for which they would use information obtained through their function. It was a colleague of the majority, Mr. Franky Demon, who disclosed this information. It is believed that Practicali would be primarily targeted. I quote: "Thanks to businessmen and the related network, Practicali is able to obtain very quickly information on the legislation being drafted, draft circulars, decisions, etc. They always have a small advance on competition, which does not have these contacts." Minister, are these revelations accurate? Did you know about it? How many people in your firm would be involved? What information would have been disclosed in the first place? Are other consulting companies also involved? Do you think these practices are acceptable or should they be discussed in the Chamber's Political Renewal Working Group, which meets on Tuesday afternoon? This last proposal was made by Mr Demon. Thank you for the answers you can give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u87	Mr Dispa, in recent months, I have already had the opportunity to answer many questions on this subject, both in Parliament and in the press. I would like to summarize the situation again. The organization concerned does not have a privileged relationship with my firm. All sectoral organisations are systematically kept informed of legislative initiatives and changes. From the moment new measures are implemented, we have an obligation to communicate in this regard. The other firms do the same. If employees of the firm or the administration give a conference to an organisation, this takes place through the ad hoc procedure, i.e. through an application to the management of the SPF. For the organization in question, it consists of persons employed by the FPS Finance. The FPS Finance management reviewed this issue through internal procedures and found this to be a problem. The case is now before the Council of State. Finally, there are many insinuations that this organization, through conferences, would have received early information on legislation. My firm denied these insinuations by the facts. At one point, Mr Calvo claimed, for example, that a collaborator in my firm would have given a seminar on the content of the ISOC reform. Such a seminar never took place. As for Mr Demon's statements, they are of the order of fantasy, to say it diplomatically.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u88	Minister, this is not exactly a diplomatic language. This has at least the merit of frankness. Mr. Demon will not fail to read about it. I personally did not want to feed insinuations. I think it's important that you can cut short unsubstantiated information or rumors. Having said that, you have not denied that there is a problem in the view of the FPS Finances, since a procedure is currently pending before the Council of State, if I understand correctly. If there is a problem, this justifies extreme vigilance, especially in your head, minister, since it is really desirable that you and your firm be above suspicion. I take note of your vigilance in this regard and can only encourage you to be extremely cautious so that in no case can a conflict of interest in the head of a staff member of your firm be proved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u89	At first I thought the questions were about Optima, but apparently croisières still take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u90	Mr Minister, the fact that several questions are being asked on this subject and that it is also being written about in the press shows, of course, that there is at least a problem of morality. All of us had to find that a member of the Board of the ruling service and a college member of the mediation service with an organisation of tax advisors and accountants go on cruise to the Cayman Islands, or all places. In between these members have apparently given some seminars. I say in between, because if it were only about the seminars, they might as well take place in Brussels. I have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, one of the people involved is Véronique Tai, whom we recently heard in the Committee of Inquiry into the situation. She has already announced that she is refusing to take part in the cruise. The question is whether this is also the case, as far as he is concerned, I have not heard anything about him for Roland Rosoux, a member of the Conciliation Service. The fact that Véronique Tai renounces participation has less to do with the fact that she has come to the understanding that such a thing cannot be done, but above all with the fact that that information has become public. Secondly, do you know to what extent this practice has been disseminated? Such a cruise took place in 2010. This year, in 2017, another one is planned. I don't know about any other cruises, but perhaps you've had them checked and you can inform us about that. Thirdly, the Board of Directors of the FPS Finances (FOD) has just adopted a new strict integrity code which intersects with each other in a bizarre way. Can we get a copy of that? I would like to check whether or not participation in such cruises is included in the integrity code as avoidable behaviour or behaviour that is not appropriate for FPS Finance officials. Fourthly, we all know that such journeys are also taxed on the basis of the accountants and the fiscalists who go on cruises. I would have liked to know whether this is to be considered professional costs, or are they not rather pleasure trips to which we, as taxpayers, pay?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u91	Mr President, I did not want to address the subject exactly from this point of view. It seemed to me to be worth extending the question a little bit in relation to the seminars and the cost of seminars in general. I will therefore shorten my question. The administrative position consists, in the case of expenditure incurred in particular by the holders of a liberal profession in order to attend seminars, courses, internships and other scientific congresses in exclusive and idyllic resorts, of considering that such costs cannot be deducted as professional expenses, in so far as they are not made with a view to acquiring or retaining taxable income and to the extent that they unreasonably exceed professional needs. This implies, in particular, that certain expenses must be excluded from deductible professional expenses: all travel and subsistence expenses, including hotel and restaurant expenses, of the taxpayer's spouse, all entertainment, tourism and gastronomy expenses that are combined with training activities, all excessive travel and subsistence expenses, and the taxpayer's exclusive hotel and restaurant expenses. Expenses which, under the heading of study travel, are in fact related to leisure travel, must be totally rejected from deductible professional expenses. This is in accordance with the legal provisions in force. I assume, minister, that you agree. If not, is there a legal basis for possibly differentiating the costs of training abroad from training in Belgium, according to the theory advocated by the journalist of the daily Le Soir that a seminar organised abroad does not bring added value? If so, should a distinction still be made between the different parts of the world, between those where training can be organised and those where it cannot? I think I can add that if the organiser of a seminar in Belgium or abroad bears the costs of participating in the event he organises, this assumption would obviously give rise to an advantage in kind taxable in their head, according to the ordinary rules. Tax practitioners are well aware of the relevant rules. In this regard, the press had also echoed, a little less than two years ago, the presence of some 60 FGTB members in Cuba to celebrate May 1, 2015. Without, of course, violating the provisions on professional secrecy, can you reassure me that the legal provisions in force have been applied in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u92	Mr President, Minister, my colleague Mr Vanvelthoven has described the case that concerns us well. In fact, a few weeks ago, we learned that two senior officials from the tax administration - one from the Advance Rulings Service, which is not nothing, and the other from the Tax Conciliation Service, which is not nothing either - were planning to take part in a cruise organised by the Belgian Order of Accountants and Accountants whose aim was to train tax lawyers, business reviewers, accountants or notaries with a number of entertainment and gastronomy aspects on the cruise programme still available on the internet. Minister, this story is shocking mainly because of the duties of these two FPS Finance staff. The irony of history is that this cruise intended to stop in the Cayman Islands, a well-known tax haven. You will agree that for the image of the FPS Finances and for the will that you display - it is still seen today through your bill to combat tax fraud and fraud in particular - this is a bit of a stain and it blurs the image of the department. This is not new since in 2010 there had been a story of the same order. At the time, Mr Vandeput, today your colleague in the government, did not fail to point out the problem. He had already pointed out the planned participation in a cruise of the same acabit, around places which could be said to be not far from one or the other tax haven, and Mr Vandeput had denounced the fact by saying that this was a "quasi caricatural" conflict of interest. These are his words and I quote him exhaustively. It goes without saying that the behaviour of these two staff members should not cast reproach on all staff members who are doing their work conscientiously and who avoid getting into situations that might be described as conflict of interest or that might come to blur the image. In the light of these elements, I would like to ask you to remind us of the conflict of interest rules. Then, since gifts cannot be accepted by FPS Finance members, can you explain why, in this case, we could not consider these gifts to be gifts? What guarantees are there to avoid this? In one way or another, if there was a total or partial take-over of this type of cruise, would there not be a form of gift there? Do you consider that the code of ethics is sufficient or that it should be supplemented? Finally, have you been informed of this situation? Do you have a detailed report? Have you been warned of this? If so, what steps have you taken? In one way or another, have you asked to be more fully informed? Finally, I would like to inform my colleagues that, following my statements in the press concerning this case, I received a letter from a lawyer, Mr Litannie, who explained that the journalist and I had not understood anything, and that it was defamation, etc. While we basically kept to the facts in the prospectus issued by the Belgian Order of Accountants and Accountants. In carrying out research, I realized that Mr Litannie, the lawyer who sent me the letter, was himself a member of the board of directors of the Belgian Order of Accountants and Accountants, in which also one of the two officials concerned with this parliamentary question sits. So here's a subsequent question: Is there not a conflict of interest between being a FPS Finance Advisor and serving on the board of a professional order that is said to be related to the day-to-day and ordinary work of the FPS Finance? Is that reasonable? Minister, I would like to bring this question to your attention. It must be clear: as Mr Dispa said, I am not here to play the white knight. But we can see that all the scandals at the international level, such as Panama Papers, Bahamas Leaks, Offshore Leaks, Swiss Leaks etc., create a stir among the population. What is expected of the FPS Finances is, of course, that it is fighting international tax fraud. Imagine what people can feel when they learn that finance officials are going on cruises that stop in well-known tax havens. This is a problem of overall cohesion and social cohesion. It also raises all the ethical issues that I have mentioned, and on which I would like to have your opinion and your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, the two officials concerned have finally decided not to take part in the cruise, which we are talking about in part here. In 2010, one of the civil servants did participate in such a cruise. The administration informs me that there have been no such cruises with the participation of public servants. On 17 February 2017, the Management Committee of the FPS Finance approved the draft updated deontological guidance. The draft was submitted to the representative trade unions for consultation on 7 March. After the end of the consultation period, the deontological guidance will be published on the FPS Finance website and on the FOD's own intranet site. On points 6 on professional secrecy and 21 on the authorisation of cumulation of the chapter "Deontology" in my relationship to the FPS Finances, and on points 10 on the gift scheme and 11 on the invitations to congresses and seminars of the chapter "Deontology" in my external relations," the updated guidance does not deviate from the current one, which has been evolving since 2013. Both the updated and the current deontological guidance are available to the committee members. As far as the specific dossiers are concerned, it is not for me personally to judge them. I therefore asked the chairman of the FPS Finance to check whether all the rules on cumulation, integrity and deontology were effectively respected. I also asked the President whether or not a tightening of the current rules is necessary. The costs of such travel cannot be deducted as professional expenses to the extent that they have not been incurred in order to collect or retain taxable income or exceed professional needs in an unreasonable manner. This means that all costs associated with relaxing, touristic and gastronomic events combined with the forming activities, and all excessive travel and accommodation costs and excessive hotel and restaurant costs, are not deductible professional costs. Expenditure on pleasure trips proposed as study trips is also not deductible professional costs. Mr. Laaouej, I confirm to you that the story you told about the letter received from a lawyer has caught my full attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u94	Minister, it is not often in these times that ministers say they should not have an opinion on anything. I often have the feeling today that ministers and secretaries of state have an opinion on everything and that they also like to ventilate. In that sense, your answer is a bit special. Your judgment whether or not this was possible remains, I understand, an inner conviction. You have transferred your judgment to the chairman of the FPS Finance, who, I presume, has been working for some time to shed light on this situation. After all, this situation does not date from yesterday. We've known for a few weeks what's going on here. I would like to know how the chairman of the FPS Finances looks at that situation and what he thinks about it. That's fundamental. I understand that the existing rules will be in line with the future rules in this regard. We have to wait and see what the trade unions say about this. In any case, I hope that the chairman of the FPS Finance Office will not get rid of the argument that he should not take a decision on this matter. It is important that we really know how the leadership of the FPS Finance looks at such behavior and that we also know whether this fits within the current and future rules. In other words, we need to know whether or not we can participate in such a cruise according to the current deontological code that is being amended. You do not say anything about this, Minister, but I am very curious about what the President of the Federal Finance Office has to say about it. I expect you to give us his answer as soon as you receive it. In the absence of that, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister again within a few weeks the views of the President of the Federal Finance Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u95	Mr President, I will already testify that my colleague, Ahmed Laaouej, has promoted the Belgian coast. I will ask him to also promote the Ardennes and the Gaume for this kind of seminar. For the rest, Minister, I thank you for your answer, because this obviously corresponds to the line that is well known to tax practitioners and administration in relation to the deductibility of professional duties. Finally, I am not surprised by your answer, and I thank you for that. You did not answer about the in-kind benefit of FGTB travel participants. I still wish I had the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u96	Mr Piedboeuf, I do not remember promoting the Belgian coast. That being the case, I can really, with great pleasure, promote the Ardennes. Without any difficulty. We are lucky to have both the sea and the Ardennes in Belgium. It's still beautiful! Minister, thank you for your answers. I feel an awareness of the problem. We've got to do it. I can understand, of course, that you did not speak out on the individual case of the two officers and that you asked the President of the FPS Finances to take the case with you. I did not understand, however, whether you wanted him to be able to investigate more about the two cases that we have reported to you or whether it is to carry out a more comprehensive reflection. I will not dwell on the subject. Simply put, it is necessary to quickly review the current relevance of the code of ethics in relation to current practices. What is spectacular in this case is that it is an organized cruise, with a stopover in the Cayman Islands, but besides that, there are a whole series of other types of stays and training organized by professional organizations in which FPS Finance officials are involved. My point is simple. Of course, we need competent figures professionals, accountants, accountants. It is necessary for the proper maintenance of the accounts of companies, of taxpayers, to ensure their defence also before the FPS Finances, to be an interface. It is fundamental to have professionals of the figure well trained with the required skill. On the other hand, there is a need for FPS officials who are impartial and fully dedicated to the FPS as part of their oath. This means that not only must they be impartial, but they must also give the image of impartiality. This is where it is necessary to avoid the mixing of the genera and the installation of a form of porosity. We must be careful, trust a priori, it is obvious – every official must be regarded as doing his work with probity and sincerity – but, at the same time, human nature being what it is, we must have a framework that goes through the code of ethics, the status of State agents and a whole range of other regulatory frameworks of circular or other type, considered more appropriate. Be vigilant in this regard, as it relates to the image and quality of the work of the FPS Finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u97	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that several visually impaired FPS Finance officers encounter difficulties in obtaining equipment adapted to their disability. Some of them seem to have requested a screen adapted to their view to the Logistic service, but receive no response. Others contacted Empreva - Well-being at work and did not follow up on their request. On the other hand, it appears that some people who do not see 50 centimetres are even denied suitable equipment. Finally, in December 2016, your agents received laptops, but the adapter was not provided; however, it is the adapter that connects their old screen to this laptop. Is it correct that the adapters were not provided due to a lack of sufficient budget? Can you communicate the number of requests to both Logistic and Empreva - Well-being at work? And how many positive responses have been given to ensure that people with visual impairments have a suitable screen? How soon does your department intend to remedy this situation? Does the FPS Finance intend to provide the necessary adapters for new laptops?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u98	Mr Crusnière, because the application procedure via Empreva takes a lot of time and could lead to frustrations, an Empreva certificate will no longer be required for people with a disability at work; approval by the wellness department is sufficient. Since January 2016, all applications have been submitted via the FMUP application. In this application you will find, under the heading "Well-being", the sections "Handicap – Well-being", then "Ergonomics". To date, nine applications have been registered under the FMUP application. Obtaining new laptops with 19-inch screens will be done on request from the ICT service. Visually impaired employees who need specific material can request this via the P&O ticketing under the heading "Equal opportunity", then "Diversity". Since applications come from all over Belgium, waiting times may vary. After the migration of the Federal Public Service Finance to Windows 10 and Office 365, we are working on a specification to purchase specific programs compatible with the new system for visually impaired and blind people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u99	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u100	Minister, I would like to ask you about the third aid plan for Greece. An important meeting of euro area finance ministers was held on 20 February. European Commissioner Moscovici and an IMF representative have already visited Greece to convince the Tsipras government to reach an agreement on the third aid plan as soon as possible. An agreement must be reached before next July. There are still differences between Europeans and the IMF. According to the latter, they are too optimistic about the health of the Greek economy and overestimate the ability of Athens to honour its debts in the medium term. In addition, new cuts in Greek pensions and social benefits are announced. Minister, can you give us a debriefing of the meeting of euro area finance ministers on this subject? There appears to be continuing disagreements between Europeans and the IMF. What about it? In view of the topics discussed, is the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Council (EPSCO) involved in the reflection? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u101	Mr Crusnière, at the meeting on 20 February, the Eurogroup was informed that the four Greek institutions and authorities had reached a common point of view allowing the review mission to return to Athens on 28 February and resume work in order to reach a technical agreement on reforms in the context of the second review of Greece's macroeconomic adjustment programme. More specifically, the mission will aim to find a rebalancing of Greek public finances, favourable to growth through several measures that must be previously legislated through reforms of the pension and income tax system. The mission will also examine additional labour market reforms in order to align them with best practices in the European Union. Although there is no pressing need for liquidity, it is in the interest of all to conclude the second review as soon as possible, with a view to enhancing investor and consumer confidence in the Greek economy and to continue on the path of progress so far. Nevertheless, it was pointed out that much work remained to be done in order to achieve a full level of staff agreement between the institutions. The Eurogroup will return to the question of Greece once an agreement between the Greek institutions and authorities has been reached. This was confirmed when we were in Malta about ten days ago. As soon as a staff level agreement is reached, the Eurogroup will also return to the issue of the medium-term fiscal trajectory for the post-programme period and the sustainability of Greek debt on the basis of the agreement reached in May 2016 with a view to reaching a political agreement. There is still disagreement between the European institutions and the IMF on the impact of the measures taken so far. Indeed, the IMF considers that the measures taken would lead to a primary surplus of 1.5% of GDP in 2018 and in the medium term, while the European institutions estimate it at 3.5% in 2018 and in the medium term. However, prior to the Eurogroup meeting on 20 February 2017, a common view had been found between the European institutions and the IMF on the target of a primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP for 2018, as well as a set of post-programme measures needed to maintain this surplus at 3.5% in the medium term. On the basis of Regulation 472/2013 on strengthening the economic and budgetary surveillance of euro area Member States experiencing or at risk of serious financial stability, a Member State requesting financial assistance shall, in agreement with the Commission in liaison with the European Central Bank and, where appropriate, the IMF, prepare a draft macroeconomic adjustment programme. The Council shall, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, approve this programme but shall not intervene in its elaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u102	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his full response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u103	Mr President, Minister, on 1 December 2016, the Constitutional Court delivered a judgment (151/2016) on actions for annulment against the legal provisions making intercommunals, cooperation structures and project associations subject to corporate tax (ISOC). The Court relies on two criteria to determine whether it is justified for an intercommunal to be submitted to ISOC. In fact, resident companies, within the meaning of Article 179 of the IARC 1992, i.e. any duly constituted company, association, establishment or body which has legal personality and engages in exploitation or transactions of a lucrative nature (art. 2, §1, 5°, (a) of the same Code), are subject to corporate tax. In addition, article 220, paragraph 3, of the Code still provides that corporations are subject to tax if they are not engaged in a profit-making operation or transaction or are not subject to corporate tax in accordance with articles 181 and 182. It follows that if an intercommunal structure demonstrates that it does not engage in exploitation or transactions of a lucrative nature or is in one of the specific situations provided for in articles 181 and 182 of the Code, it is not subject to ISOC and remains subject to the tax of legal persons. Within the framework of waste management, several public structures have been mandated to manage household waste, but some of them are also active, whether for the collection or treatment in the market of industrial waste by offering services invoiced, subject to VAT, like private operators. For example, a recent article in the press mentioned that the trade missions of the Brussels-Property Agency would represent about one fifth of the Agency's overall revenue, i.e. about 40 million euros. Therefore, these are not marginal activities. In view of the dialogue that has been initiated between your tax administration and the public structures, I would like to ask you the following questions. Which Flemish, Walloon and Brussels intercommunals have been submitted to ISOC? Is the Brussels-Cleanness body, a Category A public interest body within the meaning of the Act of 16 March 1954 on the supervision of certain public interest bodies also covered by these provisions? Under what criteria has the administration assessed if public structures do not engage in lucrative transactions? The echoes received would be that of a case-law established at 10 % of turnover for these operations. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u104	Mr. Calomne, given the provisions on professional secrecy, it is not possible to disclose the tax regime applicable to a specified taxpayer. As a result of recent changes concerning the taxing of intercommunals on income taxes, many of them questioned the Advance Rulings Service (ADS) on this subject. The decisions taken in this regard illustrate the assessment criteria that can be taken into account. In certain circumstances and following an overall examination of the taxpayer's particular situation, the SDA did in fact accept that the pursuit of commercial activities below a threshold of 10 % of turnover, was incidental and did not preclude the imposition of tax on legal persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u105	I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u106	Mr President, Minister, you know that I am particularly interested in this matter. I regularly ask you about this, as well as the Prime Minister. A few weeks ago, a meeting of the Group of Ten Finance Ministers was held to implement the Financial Transaction Tax (FTT). The purpose of the meeting was to decide on the Belgian and Slovak fears about the impact of the future tax on pension funds. Three options would have been found to satisfy Belgium and Slovakia, which request that pension funds be protected from the tax. If my information is correct, the first option is to tax these funds, but countries would be able to compensate individuals whose pensions would be affected. The second option is to exempt pension funds. Finally, the last option is to grant a pass-right to pension funds and life insurance. Another Belgian fear is linked to the highly volatile environment of the international economy. In any case, Belgium seems to be less and less on the side of solutions in this case, because of increasing fears and problems, rather than bringing this dossier to a successful conclusion once and for all. Minister, in plenary, the Prime Minister keeps repeating that Belgium continues to want to reach an agreement. It is hard to believe when you defend a different Belgian position, by exposing two main fears of Belgium, one of which (the threat of the volatile economic environment) destroys any chance of agreement. On behalf of my group, I can only condemn this. How do you explain your government's different positions on this issue? Can you explain to me the position you defended at this meeting? What political solutions do you see on the Belgian side to finally complete this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u107	Mr Crusnière, as regards the Belgian Government's point of view on this issue, let me be very clear. Since I took office, I have always been consistent in defending this position. In accordance with the government agreement, Belgium continues to defend the exemption of pension funds, the insurance sector, the preservation of the real economy and the securing of the financing of public debt. The terms of the pension fund exemption were discussed at the Ministers' Meeting on Monday, March 20th. Belgium defended the idea of allowing Member States to use an opt-out clause for pension funds on an individual basis. More generally, Mr Crusnière, I want to point out that among the ten Member States, several have highlighted the uncertain aspect of the current international environment. Reference is made to the Brexit, the American Dodd-Frank Act and certainly also to what can be called the "election cycle" in Europe. That was one of the main points of the discussion we had on March 20th.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u108	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm worried because once again, every time we talk about the TTF, we get new excuses to try to postpone it. We were told that this was the problem of pension funds. A lead was actually on the table. We were told about preserving the real economy. However, as you know and I have already said in this committee, we have heard from experts from the European Union who have reassured us in this area. And now, of course, we are getting the Brexit and now the electoral cycle of the European Union. However, this shows a willingness not to move forward. I'm keeping an eye on this case. I will continue to question you. I really hope that this group of ten countries will soon be able to implement this tax through this enhanced cooperation. It is, for me and my group, something of paramount importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u109	Question No 17403 by Mrs Sonja Becq is deleted. The same applies to Question No 17456 by Mr Werner Janssen. Mrs Annick Lambrecht is not present for her question No. 17462. Consequently, her question is deleted. Questions Nos 17489 and 17685 by Mr Raf Terwingen and Mr Roel Deseyn were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr David Geerts' 17502 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Georges Gilkinet's 17509 is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Griet Smaers' 17576 will be converted into a written question. As I have no news from Mrs Kattrin Jadin, her question becomes No. 17592 deleted. Debates of the European Parliament 17600 by Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau will be converted into a written question. Mr Vermeulen, you have waited a very long time. We have seven to eight minutes left. I suggest you start with one of your four questions. You can choose a question, because the minister has to leave at 5:30.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u110	Mr President, I would like to ask my question about the annual ceiling for flight attendant fees at football matches.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u111	Mr President, Minister, the deployment of stewards is actually a part of ensuring that there is sufficient security in football matches. It is a trend which leads to a reduction in the number of police deployments. It ensures that the government does not have to pay that part of the government's costs. That's what the clubs have to do, since they're paying the stewards. Their selection, assignment and training are determined by a Royal Decree of 25 May 1999. The stewards are also subject to the legislation on volunteering. For the tax exemption from their cost compensation, there are tax circulars that clarify this. For example, there are circulars dated 12 August 1996, 5 March 1999 and 6 January 2010. The FPS Finance assumes that the fees granted to unpaid volunteers cover the actual costs and are therefore not taxable if they do not exceed EUR 24,79 per transferee. That amount has meanwhile been indexed to 33,36 euros in 2017 and to a total amount of 1334,55 euros in 2017 on an annual basis. These amounts are identical to those specified in the Voluntary Service Act. Where one of these amounts has been exceeded, all income arising from voluntary service for the same taxable period shall in principle be considered as taxable income. I am currently working on a bill that amends the football law and thus the safety of football matches. In this respect, several football clubs have informed me that stewards are in a difficult situation not because of the daily ceiling but because of the annual ceiling. After all, several stewards perform not only at home games, but also at races on the move, at practice games, at cup matches and at international competitions. Sometimes, in the event of a shortage of available stewards, flight attendant duties are performed at another club. Those stewards do that to other clubs in the region. However, they are also asked to be a steward at matches of the Red Devils. More and more cases are being awarded to the stewards. Finding stewards is already a problem because they have to do their job for seven hours per game. The additional problem of the annual ceiling is a sword of Damocles which ensures that there is a risk that not enough qualified people will be found because they are being retaxed. I have four questions about the problem. Firstly, to what extent are you aware of the problem of the annual ceiling for stewards for football matches? How did you detect the problem? Secondly, has the FPS Finances already carried out checks at clubs or individuals to determine to what extent they did not reach their annual ceiling, in particular with stewards who have different clients? Thirdly, what proposals have you already examined to deal with the problems? What are the conclusions of the investigations? Fourthly, under what conditions are you prepared to raise the annual ceiling for tax-free fees for stewards at football matches?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u112	Mr Vermeulen, the Home Office has contacted the FPS Finance Office to update the specific tax system of the stewards. Work is currently under way to bring about this actualization with all that goes with regard to amounts and so on. There is no control action specifically aimed at this problem, neither organized nor planned by the General Administration of Taxation. Nevertheless, checks on sports clubs are always possible, either in the context of centralised actions on a particular theme, such as controls on legal persons' taxes or on the partial exemption from the transfer of the company's withholding tax, or following local selections by the valuation services themselves. Consequently, in the context of the checks carried out on legal persons' taxes, provision is made in particular to verify that the sports club has complied with its obligations to draw up the sheets if the upper limits provided for in the flat-rate reimbursement of expenses incurred by a volunteer have been exceeded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u113	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that the services of the Interior and Finance have contacted each other in order to make a change, hopefully, which could solve the problem. At the moment, only 40 performances per year can be achieved and the ceiling is fixed. I don't know where those 40s came from, but we already have a problem. It would be very good to be able to outsource more tasks to stewards in the future, so that they can be rewarded properly, without problems. I look forward to the answers that will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u114	Questions Nos 17621, 17626 and 17627 by Mr Brecht Vermeulen are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Marcel Cheron's 17628 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament 17632 by Mrs Griet Smaers is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roel Deseyn's 17653 will be converted into a written question. Questions Nos 17656 and 17657 by Mrs Griet Smaers are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Stefaan Vercamer's 17676 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Johan Klaps' 17689 was postponed, together with questions Nos 17692 by Mrs Karin Temmerman and 17768 by Mr Ahmed Laaouej. I propose that we now turn to the questions put together by Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Calomne, in telegram style, as we have to stop at 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u115	Mr President, Minister, we are two Ixellois concerned with the future of the Flagey building. I do not repeat everything that has been said in the press about the evolution of the participations of SA Maison de la Radio Flagey which manages the activities within the Flagey building, Place Flagey in Ixelles. It is an important building in terms of cultural offer, multiculturalism too, as very interesting partnerships develop there. Therefore, the future of SA Maison de la Radio Flagey is very important to me. We know that there is a willingness of historical shareholders to resell their stakes. Minister, what is the situation today? There was an offer from the SFPI to take over part of the shares. It expired last Friday, April 14, 2017. I'd like to know what's going on. What will be in public hands (SFPI, SRIB)? A whole consortium of public institutions have subscribed to this offer. What are the intentions of the SFPI? What is the federal government's vision on this issue? What is the status of public holdings in the SA Maison de la Radio Flagey today? If you already have this information, what about the shareholders and the rest of the shareholders?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u116	Mr Minister, as my colleague has said, Flagey is one of the major cultural hubs of our country. Located in Ixelles, the former Maison de la Radio regularly hosts well-known international events, including the Queen Elisabeth Competition, which showcases the municipality, the Brussels Region and the entire country. The press did indeed echo the evolution of the situation and very recently reported the acquisition, by brewer Michel Moortgat and patron Hubert Bonnet, of 68% of the shares of the SA. For their part, the three public investment companies (SRIB, SFPI and PMV), also interested in the acquisition of shares, would have managed to secure a 25% blockage majority. According to the information available to you through the SFPI, what is the current state of the situation? Can you confirm the various information as disclosed in the media? Can you tell us the financial volume granted by the SFPI within the SA Maison de la Radio Flagey? What is the status of the consultations with the various public or private shareholders and with the officials of the ASBL Flagey, directly concerned with the future of cultural activities? Have any contacts been made with the ixello local authorities as well as with the representatives of the Brussels Region and the Community authorities? Thank you already for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u117	Gentlemen, in total, SFPI acquired 6,000 shares of SA Maison de la Radio Flagey for an amount of 1,740,310 euros, a cost per share of 290 euros. Out of a total of 86,000 shares, today's 6,000 securities held by SFPI account for 6% of SA Maison de la Radio Flagey's capital. A loan of €50,000 was granted to Flagey by SFPI in 2008, but the loan was fully repaid in 2014. The shares of the other public shareholders of SA Maison de la Radio Flagey are as follows: PMV and SRIB each own 4,000 shares and the King Baudouin Foundation owns 2,000. The rest of the capital is in the hands of financial institutions, a few industrial companies and many individuals. As regards the possible changes in the shareholding to which Mr Vanden Burre referred, we do not yet have the final results of the offer. The summary of the bids was provided this weekend by the working group that managed the bid process, but it does not allow the SFPI to have an exhaustive view of the responses to each bid and raises several questions. In addition, SFPI has still not had access to the shareholders' register. In a more general way, the SFPI wishes to guarantee the cultural aspect of this iconic building, Flagey, as well as a financial return and to secure the role of the ASBL Flagey on reasonable terms. The aim is that after the simplification of the shareholding, the SFPI will start a discussion with the other shareholders, in order to agree together on the future of the Maison de la Radio Flagey. This will begin this week. Finally, it should be noted that SFPI acts independently. The federal government is therefore not involved in this matter; the final decisions will be taken by the SFPI's own bodies. Of course, these bodies must take into account the social and financial framework within which the authorities expect the SFPI projects to fit in.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u118	Minister, I will ask you for clarification. So the shareholding you mention is the precedent and not the new shareholding? [[Sentiment]] Okay. So we do not have the new distribution; for the rest, nothing special. We'll have to wait. What we are interested in is what kind of public blocking minority exists. For us, it is important that there be one. We would like to know his vision, but if I understand correctly, we will still have to wait, because you are giving us the state of the place before the offer. That's a fact. We shall return to the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic636x.u119	In addition to what my colleague has just mentioned, I would say that we will be attentive: it is also important for us that the federal state, through the SFPI, be involved in this project. It is important that public authorities are involved and have leverage within this institution. This, as I said, contributes to the influence of our country as a whole. You said it yourself, Minister, it is an iconic and symbolic building. It is important that the public authorities take an interest in it. I am also pleased to have heard from you regarding the intervention that would take place quickly. I think you even said that there would be a meeting this week to discuss with all the actors and stakeholders the cultural projects and the future of the site that hosts them. Together with my colleague, we will remain attentive to the development of the situation, which we hope will be positive.
