ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u1	The first question is a combined question, but if I look closely, I am the only questioner present. Can I ask the question in the Chair or should I go into the Chamber? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u2	Mr Minister, my question dates from 3 March. I am asking for an update on the file on the replacement of the F-16 fighter planes. Several steps have already been taken. We've already gone over the Request for Government Proposal in committee. It has been sent out and also published on your website in all transparency. I have kept the question because I think it is a very important dossier and because I am also very pleased that so many steps have been taken forward. However, as my colleague Wouter De Vriendt mentioned earlier, this afternoon a Belga message entitled "Miszigd Boeing no longer candidate " appeared. With regard to the state of play in this replacement dossier, I would like to ask your opinion. It reads that the constructor of the F-18 Super Hornet has announced that he no longer wishes to participate. The constructor denounces the biased rules of the game. He says: "After studying the question, we regret that we do not see the possibility of competing with the extremely capable and cost-effective Super Hornet on a truly level playing field. I would like to know your opinion on this. What information do you have on this matter in the meantime? What seems strange to me is that we still have a government to government agreement. We buy from the government and here we get the opinion of the constructor. I think that's weird. We have asked the government for the proposal. Then it seems to me that the government has made a decision in this regard. Perhaps you could explain that more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a combined question, the answer of which has been extensively prepared. Allow me to take a little more time to clarify things. I think that will not upset my fellow Members. In this way, I can answer any questions that would otherwise be tabled and can only be dealt with in two weeks' time. On 17 March 2017, the government gave the green light to initiate the process of replacing the F-16 Air Component. The Request for Government Proposal (RfGP) was transferred to the five state agencies concerned on 20 March. As the questioner has already pointed out, we are in principle dealing with state agencies. The aim of this RfGP is precisely to obtain governmental proposals containing information such as the version of the apparatus that will be proposed to Belgium, the characteristics related to this version and the production and delivery schedule. A comparative study of the costs and performance of each candidate, including the proposed weaponry, will also be carried out on the basis of government proposals. It is only once government proposals have been received, analyzed and evaluated that it will be possible to draw conclusions on each individual's opportunities. I would like to stress once again that we are at the beginning of a Request for Government Proposal and that we cannot comment on it at all. Anyone can say what they want, but I'm sticking to the official information. If it has been analysed, we will be able to discuss it in detail. The usual and legally prescribed procedure was followed as for any public procurement, including explanations to the Parliamentary Committee on Military Procurement. The following observation is addressed to Mr. Hedebouw, but he is not here. We make a lot of noise, but we're not here when we have to. In addition, I have decided to make the RfGP, so the specifications, public, which is not always the case and demonstrates, once again, my willingness to be as transparent as possible in this matter. Since the RfGP is public, you may have noticed that the document includes an indicative timetable setting out all the important steps that will be taken up to and including the submission of the final government proposal. This means that those who have questions about, inter alia, the timing of the procedure can find that information in the RfGP. You know where to find it. If not, it's a website with my name on it. The word 'nuclear' does not appear. Any conclusion on this matter therefore belongs to those who want to use this expression. All five state agencies responded to the invitation of 20 March to collect their files and on 21 March we announced the RfGP. Until last night, we did not hear any comments from any agency regarding the RfGP. The outdoor use of the F-16 will be spread over the period 2023-2028, as the aircraft reach the end of their life. The delivery of the new devices is desired between 2023 and 2030, but the detailed calendar will be laid down in the intergovernmental agreement to be concluded. Last week there was also news about a lifetime extension of the F-16. Of course, there will also be a lot of questions about this. I found that interesting to read, too. However, I will come back to the answers I have already given in relation to the lifetime extension of the F-16. The types for which it is indicated that the States will effectively use them longer or will continue to support them for longer are the types of Block 50 and 50+; these are not the types used by Belgium, because they are type A/B, which date from the 70s and 80s. The announcement made by Lockheed about the lifetime extension of the F-16 is therefore unfortunately not applicable to our own fleet. What can I tell you about the news that we all heard through Belga? As I said earlier, yesterday we completed the reply dossier at 7.15 p.m. At that time, the sense that we had not heard a comment from any agency was still correct. The events took place between 7.15 p.m. and 10.30 p.m. this morning. Is there a reason for that? Yes, because today was a formal day for the ACAP team, the replacement team, with the various state agencies. I was just confirmed that five agencies were present at that meeting this morning (read four instead of five at the request of the speaker, red.). Five agencies (read four instead of five at the request of the speaker, red.), not five constructors. In the first instance, we were able to learn about it through Belga, first in French and then in translation. I do not like to read that, let me be clear: you have already been able to look into it for yourself, but we are really organising a competition in this story. The Belgian message is based on an e-mail from Mr. henk.vervaeke@porternovelli.be, not Boeing itself, but a representative of Boeing in Belgium. Last night, there was a telephone call between the people of the ACAP team, the Air Component Commander and the Vice-President of Boeing, who himself took the initiative to contact directly and announce that they would refrain from participating. The content of that conversation will be made a transcription and we will discuss it behind closed doors, if necessary. The content of that call does not correspond to the coverage that took place today. Mr Vervaeke writes a number of things that are formally denied by the people who have been in contact with Boeing by telephone. According to them Boeing effectively said it didn't compete because it estimated its chances too low. Bottomline was actually the story. It is important to add the source text here. “Boeing informed the Belgian government that it will not participate in its bidders conference today, nor respond to the request for proposals for a new fighter aircraft. We regret that after reviewing of the request we do not see an opportunity to compete on a truly level playing field with the extremely capable and cost-effective F/A-18 Super Hornet. This decision allows Boeing to concentrate its efforts and resources on supporting our global customers, securing new orders and investing in technology and systems required to meet the threats of today and tomorrow. Where there is a full and open competition we look forward to bringing the full depth and breadth of the Boeing company to our offer, said Gene Cunningham, vice-president BDS Global Sales.” That is actually the message on which the Belgabebericht was produced and so on. Does French correspond entirely to the tonality of the English text? Yes and no. At least there are two references here. They say there's no level playing field and there should be a full and open competition. Those are also words I do not like to hear, let me be very clear about that. So I too will ask for some text and explanation when I get the chance to do so. I want to know what they can do to back up their claims. Fact is, that's my formal attitude today, which, as I said, we're dealing with five state agencies. This morning, five state agencies attended the RfGP questioning session (read four instead of five at the request of the speaker, red.). Before I can take any further position, I am, of course, waiting for a formal letter from the state agency which has been announced. I can't say much more today. I also hope that they will make it clear what is behind the allegations that are being made here, apparently by a representative in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u4	Thank you, Minister. I didn't see that answer coming when I got up this morning. I thought I was gonna ask an old question. The procedure has only just begun and has so far been correct. I think it is extremely important that we do not make procedural mistakes and that we continue to address this in this way. I would like to point out once again that we have invited all five state agencies to the committee. We didn't see Boeing at the time. They've repeatedly rejected the invitation. We will follow this up and we will invite them back to this committee, but behind closed doors, as for the other state agencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u5	We now come to the question No. Mr Veli Yüksel to the Minister for Defence, with responsibility for Civil Service Affairs, on the deployment of military forces in the Vigilant Guardian operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u6	Madam President, Minister, depending on the length of their training, the military have a period of return in which they may have to submit their resignation to the Minister of Defence. During this period of military involvement, the cost of their training, paid and supported by the Defence Department, is refunded. Mr Minister, following a series of refusals of resignation by you who have come to my attention, I would like to ask you the following questions. First of all, how many layoffs did you refuse in 2015 and 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u7	Mr Yüksel, this is not the question that has just been raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u8	Let me check, Madam President, because I also notice the reaction of the cabinet employee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u9	You are asking the question No. Question No 17559 under item 7, while you were given the floor for Question No 17150 under item 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u10	Before this question I have no other questions on the agenda, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u11	Your statement relates to Question No 1, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to the adoption of a Directive on the harmonization of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes - Common system of value added tax: uniform basis of assessment. 17559 under item 7, on the discharge of military personnel during the period of return, while I would like to ask the following question: 17150 under item 3 which deals with the deployment of military personnel in their own country, and which you filed on 9 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u12	Madam President, with your approval, I am working on my question No. 17559 under item 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u13	That's good, Mr. Yüksel. Fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u14	Madam President, the questions on item 7 are grouped together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u15	That's right. However, Mr Top has just left. Mr Yüksel, you will still have to switch to Question No 5, by Mr Seligman, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the I have the text of your question. Mr Yüksel, may I continue with Mr Vandenput's question while you can look quietly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u16	Madam President, I have only one question and cannot therefore be mistaken. Minister, the reforms within Defence were extended and clearly explained in your strategic vision of Defence, which was discussed extensively in the Defence Committee. In that view, we see that the Belgian army will be slimmer and that the average age will be drastically reduced to keep our army operational. Since autumn 2016, a third parameter has been added, namely the increase of the retirement age within the Ministry of Defence. Many partners inside and outside of Defense experience these three parameters as a complete contradiction. Lowering the average age while raising the retirement age would seem impossible to implement. However, the solution to this seemingly complex issue is simple. The only structural solution is that some very experienced people in Defense can make a horizontal career to other government institutions or to the private sector. However, the transition for a military to another job in the public or private sector today has several obstacles. One has to do with diplomas and certificates. A military with, for example, a technical function cannot always work in the construction sector or in the logistics sector. The same applies to a very experienced cook who cannot get a diploma to work in the private sector, for example as a cook in a school or in a company. I have the following questions, Minister. Is it true that there is a problem in terms of job mobility for our current and future military personnel who want to move to the public or private sector during or after their military career? What is your view of the problem? Is there a difference in this respect between the private sector and the public sector? Do you see room for improvement in that area? How do you see this improvement? What steps have you taken or what steps will you take in the future? Finally, will you take measures to sit with the competent communities in our country in order to give people with the right experience within Defence a degree so that they can make that horizontal career?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u17	A distinction must be made between the status of limited duration/Durée Limitée, the BDL statute, and the problem of somewhat older soldiers who are legally military. Let's talk about the BDL first. In this respect, a professional reorientation is foreseen at the end of the commitment. Public aid agencies for job seekers, the VDAB, FOREM, Actiris and Bruxelles Formation, have committed themselves. There are protocol agreements to cooperate with Defence on the career guidance of military personnel who are in the process of their careers. For ordinary professional soldiers, a transfer from Defence to another public service is possible, in application of the Royal Decree of 12 June 2006 regulating the acquisition by the military of the status of state official by transfer, a KB to which I have already made a number of changes in my competence as Minister of Civil Service. Today, in particular, we have made the field of application much wider, which should make horizontal mobility easier. In order to facilitate the transition from the military to the civilian sector, professional qualifications dossiers are drawn up for soldiers, petty officers and junior officers to enable equivalence in the civilian sector. That's not obvious. These professional qualifications files should provide additional support to the professional military if they wish to take on another professional challenge outside of Defence and in the private sector. Mind you, a distinction must be made between diplomas, certificates or certificates. The same applies to the training of the unemployed in the bourgeoisie. Diploma candidates are only issued by the Defense Department after the success of the training at the Royal Military School or the Royal School of Petty Officers. These diplomas are recognized by law and are as such accepted as a diploma outside the Ministry of Defence and are unambiguous for the determination, either in the civil service of a certain level or in the private sector for the acceptance of a certain level of knowledge. In the case of certificates, certificates or certificates obtained during the military career, for most of them there are equivalence tables of the VDAB whereby the military licence, certificate or certificate can be converted into a civilian equivalent, for example, a driver of dangerous transports, a auxiliary cook and most of the training in road construction, horizontal construction, i.e., the genius, or can be converted into a civilian equivalent, provided that one or more additional modules are followed, for example, a welder, a metal processor, a chef and the like. There is such a thing on the French-speaking side. This is a collaboration with the consortium de validation des compétentes where the military obtained certificates, licences or certificates can be converted into a citizen equivalent provided that a free test is carried out. Negotiations are under way to make this test unnecessary in the future and thus to obtain automatic acceptance of the licences and certificates we have issued ourselves. Mr Vandenput, let me say very clearly that this is a problem which is very close to my heart. In the light of the preparation of what we need to do for the BDL, we have engaged with specialists in the sector of outplacement, as it is called, to explore the possibilities. We have asked the HR management and the Material Resources management who do the actual calls for tenders to come forward in the very short term with a tender procedure for an outplacement guidance process.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u18	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I'm glad the file is close to your heart and that you're working on it. That's what we need to do to reform our defense apparatus. Can you give me numbers, too? How many have made a horizontal career? Or should I ask a written question about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u19	Answers have certainly already been given to written questions on this subject, but perhaps it is not bad to ask another written question on this, because we also have some evaluations of the past. What is successful and what isn't? For someone who can switch to a job close to home it is more successful. Some sectors are more attractive than others, but that is a difficult matter. When one starts talking about outplacement one always gets to deal with individual files. That's the only way to make those cases work. It is almost impossible to do something like this in groups, because each has its own expectations pattern and needs as an employee. I invite you to ask that question. I'll answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u20	I'll ask the question. I welcome your answer. For me, it makes a lot of sense. I hope that the trade unions and trade unions will also read the answer so that they know that you are really working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u21	Madam President, Minister, I have found the right question after a proper operation. This question dates back to 9 March but remains very topical. She's been dealing with military deployment in our streets for over two years now. At the end of January, the operation Vigilant Guardian was renewed for another month. Given the continuing threat of terror, it is conceivable that the military will be in the street for a while to come. For the sake of clarity, I believe that the use of military personnel in the circumstances is important and also an added value for this country and for the citizens, but also for the military who want to participate in it. Of course it is not ideal for them, Minister. Their monitoring tasks are accompanied by a high level of professional pressure and social aspects, such as the high externalities of those involved. Moreover, the monitoring tasks mainly hypothesize their other tasks and/or their training. The question is whether this is the best way to continue their efforts. The soldiers are used as a means of relief to the police forces, but they remain primarily military in the service of Defense. Mr. Secretary, how many soldiers were and are deployed in the context of Operation Vigilant Guardian? Can you describe the evolution of the number of military personnel deployed since the start of the operation? What percentage of the total number of available professional soldiers is that? What is the total cost of this operation so far? Can you estimate to what extent the deployment of military personnel for these surveillance missions is an additional burden on their normal tasks? Is there quality research in the army and/or in your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u22	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, the military assures support for the integrated police in the context of the anti-terrorist operations since 17 January 2015. So it's been a while. After the foiled terror attack in Verviers, the government decided to deploy a 300 soldiers spread across the cities of Brussels, Antwerp, Liège and Verviers. After the attacks of 13 November 2015 in Paris, Charleroi was added to the operative and the number of effectives was raised to 1 300 soldiers, including a national reserve. Following a slight decrease in the number of effectives in December 2015, the largest peak was reached after the attacks of 22 March 2016. The government asked for 1 828 soldiers to be available. Both the national airport of Zaventem and the regional airports of Bierset, Charleroi and Deurne were added to the operative part at that time. After an optimization of the methods of deployment, the number of soldiers deployed was reduced to 1 250 in November 2016. That number changes daily in function of the places and events to be protected. The total cost of the deployment over the period from 17 January 2015 to 18 April 2017 shall be EUR 100 289 000. There are both combat and support units of the land, air and medical components. To allow maximum training in the performance of the basic assignments, a turn role was established between the units. In addition to the commitment of our units in the context of Operation Homeland, Defense continues to comply with international obligations. To this end, a rotation between Homeland units and foreign units is indispensable. I can, of course, reply in the affirmative to your question as to whether this is a matter of extra pressure on the tasks. It seems to me quite obvious that such a number of man-days cannot be carried out without creating additional pressure. I've never denied that either. You ask whether this is being investigated, monitored and evaluated, and that is, of course, not on a daily basis, but on a very regular basis. On the basis of these evaluations, several measures have already been taken, first and foremost with regard to optimization, by reducing the number of units from more than 1 800 to the current maximum of 1 250 military personnel, by broadening, among other things, a more dynamic approach to the surveillance deployment and by the base, from which it is recruited to carry out the surveillance assignments, beyond the pure fighting units.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the overview and for the ongoing evaluation that is taking place to respond to the realities and questions of the military. It is good that we can call on the military for the security of our citizens and certain strategic places, but in the longer term, we have said this on several occasions. That is where we need to look for extra men and extra space to be able to take on these tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u24	Minister, there is a tense atmosphere in Congo due to the absence of the presidential elections. Also, the fact that President Kabila appointed a new Prime Minister Tshibala on his own was not in line with the Sylvester agreement of the end of last year, which clearly stated that the opposition could designate a new Prime Minister. Because this was kept waiting, Kabila took the cow by the horns and appointed himself a prime minister, against all the chords. That led to a number of convictions. The regime in Congo then took credit for itself and suspended military cooperation with our country itself. That was amazing because we have had a very long military cooperation with Congo since the late 1990s. Minister, what arguments did the Congolese authorities put forward for the cessation of military cooperation? How do you estimate our relationship with Congo? The military cooperation with Congo involved several tasks. Can you give an overview of the orders that are being stopped? What further tasks will be pursued in the context of multilateral cooperation? I am thinking, for example, of the MONUSCO. The mandate was extended by the UN Security Council. Can you explain what that mandate means? What support will Belgium provide? What conditions will this have to be met? How is cooperation with EUSEC going today? How do you estimate the security situation in Congo? Can you give an analysis of the positive and negative elements of the three battalions we trained? These battalions were specifically trained into rapid reaction units to bring stability to the east of the country. What assignment do these battalions carry out?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u25	Minister, according to the weekly Young Africa, the Congolese government has decided to suspend the ongoing military cooperation with the Defence on behalf of the legitimate criticisms made by your colleague in charge of Foreign Affairs and his colleagues representatives of the European Union when Bruno Tshibala was appointed Prime Minister in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. On 13 April, the spokesman for your department said: "Our Defence Attaché in Kinshasa received a letter informing us of the suspension of our military cooperation. We are currently making an inventory of what this cooperation was covering." What does the mail in question contain? Could you clarify what are the exact Congolese requests? How many Belgian Defence women and men are involved in Belgian military cooperation in the DRC at present? Thirdly, is a plan for their emergency repatriation planned? Fourthly, how do you assess the security situation in general, and in particular the members of the Defence currently present on Congolese soil as a result of this particularly disturbing mood? Finally, does the possible end of Belgian military cooperation with the Congo imply difficulties in strengthening, perhaps unfortunately necessary, the military protection of our various diplomatic posts in the Congo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u26	Minister, I have similar questions. On 11 April, the Congolese authorities declared their intention to cease military cooperation with our country. The Congolese Government took this step after the appointment of Prime Minister Tshibala by our country was rightly criticised as contrary to the letter and spirit of the New Year's Agreement for political transition. Can you confirm that this cooperation has been terminated in the meantime? Which partnerships are involved exactly? What will happen to the Belgian military present? Is there an increased risk for their safety there? Are you in contact with the Congolese authorities in order to resume or revise any cooperation? Is there a perspective there? How are these contacts going so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the security situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo is more volatile than before. Fireplaces of violence from the past have re-emerged and so on. Mrs Van Hoof, today we are participating in the MONUSCO programme with two Belgian staff officers. We have not yet been asked by the UN to increase our contribution in the context of forthcoming elections or whatever. I have always said that I am prepared to consider every question in this way in the context of multilateral cooperation, but there must be a question so that we can give the right answers. That's how I get to the last of the evolutions. The Minister of National Defence of the Democratic Republic of the Congo sent a letter on 11 April, through our Defence Attaché in Kinshasa, announcing the immediate suspension of all activities concerning military cooperation between our two countries. This decision is unilateral. I quote: "The Government of the DRC notes that the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium has for some time demonstrated itself in actions that do not meet the interests of the DRC. The many statements made by members of the Belgian government tend to interfere in our country's internal affairs, which is contrary to the rules governing cooperation between two sovereign countries and partners." That is what we have been told. The suspension concerns both the domain of academic support and the support for the Rapid Intervention Brigade formed by Belgium. For the three trained battalions and their mission, Mrs Van Hoof, I refer you to the answer to the written question No. 1096 by Mr Luyckx. What's the situation today? Twenty-four Belgian soldiers are currently on the ground in the framework of bilateral military cooperation. They are located in Kindu, Lokandu and Kalindi. One soldier is active as military advisor to the commander of the military schools in Kinshasa. There is no specific threat to the Belgian staff present today. There is therefore, according to the internal analysis of the Defence Staff, no need for urgent evacuation. Of course, ACOS IS follows the security situation day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute and is ready to intervene when necessary. However, the unilateral decision to suspend our presence requires us to review our total presence. The modalities are still internal to the Belgian Defence Staff for analysis. Of course, some things flow from that. Evidencies that were previously there with regard to evacuation interventions become a lot less simple if one cannot be permanently present. I cannot answer that today, because the whole analysis has yet to be made. The future of the relationship between Belgium and the Democratic Republic of Congo is not determined by the Department of Defence. It would therefore be inappropriate for me to give an assessment of this. To date, it is not possible to comment on the timing and modalities of a possible resumption of our cooperation activities. This is not the first time that this has happened, that the Congo unilaterally decides that we no longer work together. However, the protection of Belgian diplomatic posts is independent of this military cooperation and is further implemented as planned and foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u28	Minister, like Mr Hellings, I was based on Jeune Afrique. Apparently it has happened in the past, but a long time ago, because Jeune Afrique reported that it has been active for over a decade, while the event dates from before, I suspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u29	In international relations, of Ten years isn't really long. I think that was resumed in 2006, after a suspension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u30	Good. Apparently, the analysis still needs to be done from the ground up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u31	Let me make it clear that the analysis is ongoing. It is only after an analysis that several decisions can be submitted, which may be implemented. My department and the Department of Foreign Affairs are of course working closely together on that dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u32	I ask you this question because we have not yet heard a reply on your behalf, but we have already heard it from the Foreign Minister, who condemned it. From a diplomatic point of view, I think we are adopting a good attitude towards the Congolese regime. We are making the point about the political situation, the human rights situation and also the military situation, on which my latest question was addressed to you in plenary. Also in plenary, I asked you to stop cooperation, because it started to run out. As a result of the murder of the two UN personnel, too, I think it is necessary and useful to carry out this analysis in the short term and to link the necessary consequences to it. Apparently Kabila doesn't really intend to cooperate well with the opposition and to continue working on elections. I think military cooperation is also a lever in our diplomatic relations, with which we can say that it is a bridge too far. In this way we can say that we believe that more democratic values need to be addressed in Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u33	Thank you for your answer, Minister. From a political point of view, President Kabila clearly does not respect either the letter or the spirit of the agreements of Saint-Sylvestre and the fact that Minister Reynders made this point is not Belgium's interference in Congolese affairs. The agreements of the Saint-Sylvestre, which provided for the Prime Minister to come out of the opposition rally, are intra-Congolese. It was the Congolese themselves who reached this agreement under the aegis of the Congolese Catholic Church. The Belgians have nothing to do with this and to point it out is not interference, let it be very clear! I have been speaking here since the opposition. Therefore, for the Congolese who hear us in the Congo, let it be clear, the Belgians are not divided on this subject. The Congolese have a dire need to have a better trained army capable of ensuring the security of the Congolese. Our soldiers help these people with respect for the independence of the Congolese and in a non-ingerent manner, to have a better security, especially in the East. I believe that we must now overcome the mood swings of Mr Kabila's regime and ensure that we think of Congolese people who need political stability, democracy and security. The Belgians want this stability, security and democracy, and that is only what they want.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This is a particularly damaging development. This was a unilateral measure by the Congolese authorities. I think three points are important. Firstly, with regard to the tensions in Eastern Congo, the Belgian army made an important contribution to the pacific process, the training of the regular Congolese army. We must try to restore these ties, possibly in a different way, perhaps through the UN. I'll come back to that later. Secondly, the protection of the Belgians in Congo is very important, even in the worst case scenario of evacuation. This will have to be done from other countries, perhaps neighbouring countries. I'm assuming the Defense Department is preparing this. I trust that. Thirdly, if the UN's demand to strengthen MONUSCO comes, I think we should evaluate it positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u35	I just want to say that there has never been an evacuation operation without the consent of the country concerned. That is a very important element, which we must always remember when we talk about it. That's essential. If you say that these relations are important, they are also important. What I may not have emphasised enough in my answer is that there are, of course, two departments working together in this story. Let me put it this way: sometimes it's easier to keep a good military connection than diplomatic, if you know what I mean. As a soldier, we are less likely to say things, and that is why we are not taking our people seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u36	Minister, some 50 SLFP members demonstrated a few weeks ago at the entrance to the Defence Staff Quarter in Evere. The reason for this protest was the announced privatization of certain military functions within the Defence. On this occasion, the SLFP regretted that the various meetings that took place did not really consist of "concerts on issues such as strategic vision, implementation of neighbourhoods, outsourcing and outplacement". The union stated that it would like to continue to consult with you and your firm on the future of defence civilian and military personnel. In addition, last December, you announced that you want to move towards privatisation of several sectors, such as horeca and logistics. In the near future, the security of the Heverlee barracks, the management of the Elsenborn camp and the catering of the Royal Military School should also be entrusted to private actors during a test period. Finally, the staff would also be looking for private firms to carry out rescue missions at sea. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you inform us about the current status of your contacts with the union that spoke in the media, the SLFP? What claims have been expressed to you and what answers have been given to them? Can you give us more details about the privatisation projects mentioned? What exactly is happening at this stage? Finally, can you provide us with more information about rescue at sea? Are there any changes planned and, if so, by what order? Thank you for the various elements of your response that you will be able to communicate to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u37	I was in Evere this morning and I didn't have a big problem getting into the neighborhood. Nevertheless, there was a demonstration. At two briefings on December 2 and 10, 2016, all representative unions were informed of the progress of the pilot projects in the various areas of outsourcing within Defence. Oral answers were provided to the various questions asked. As you know, unions and my representatives meet every Friday or almost every Friday. A limited number of pilot projects have been identified. Public procurement procedures have been initiated for catering projects at the Royal Military School and guarding at the Heverlee site. In the coming weeks, the procedure for the facility management project on the Heverlee site will also be launched. At the end of 2017, a similar contract will be launched for the Helsenborn camp. In accordance with the strategic vision, rescue at sea will remain a State and Defence mission. My department is currently evaluating all possible options to achieve this mission as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u38	I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u39	Minister, the military have a period of return depending on the length of their training, in which they may have to submit their resignation to the Minister of Defence. In this way, they pay back, as it were, the costs of their training, which have been borne by the Defense Department for the deployment of these military forces. I would like to ask you the following questions as a result of a few refusals to resign which have come to my attention. How many layoffs did you refuse in 2015 and 2016? Is there an increase in this number since the start of the operation Vigilant Guardian, beginning of January 2015? During the return period, did you refuse to accept applications for a transfer to another state of service, and in particular to the police? That is what internal mobility is about. What impact do these refusals have on the recruitment of Defense? What impact do these refusals have on the morale of the military involved? Finally, are you considering a review of the return period, which would be lifted if the military remained in the service of the State, in particular with the police or fire department, and for professional volunteers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u40	Madam President, Minister, our soldiers have been carrying out surveillance orders on the streets for more than two years now. What started out as a temporary surveillance assignment now turns out to be a permanent character. Some soldiers are apparently discouraged by this, because the security orders are not at all the reason why they joined the army. On information days young military adventure abroad, a fine wage and sufficient rest to preserve a social life was previewed. However, nothing is less true. Discontent among the military is increasing. We have already mentioned it here, both the remuneration and the leave arrangements do not seem to be going well. Besides, a young soldier can't just quit. After their training, the Defense Department can keep the persons in question in service for three years. I would therefore have liked to have received an answer to the following questions. Security orders by military personnel are given a permanent character. What prospects are there? What appointments were made? How many soldiers have already sent a letter of resignation? How many did you refuse? Have written complaints also been received? If so, how many? How did you respond to these complaints? Do you think that the remuneration and leave arrangements should be revised?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u41	Madam President, I would like to refer the questioner to the report of the sitting of 30 March 2017. That was a very happy day when I answered a similar question from Mrs Hufkens. In addition, I would like to state that the law stipulates that dismissal is always contrary to the interests of the service if the military concerned has served for less than three years after its basic formation or training which gives rise to the performance of the efficiency period. Where the military concerned has completed its period of return, the dismissal shall be refused only exceptionally. The remuneration of military personnel deployed, i.e. wagers, allowances and allowances, is also regulated by law in the Law of 20 May 1994 and the Royal Decree of 18 March 2003. I can only tell you, gentlemen, that we respect the law very closely both in terms of the periods of return and in terms of compensation and allowances. Military persons leaving Defence at their request, outside the training period......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this sense, it is also not possible to attach a figure to the number of military personnel who have left Defence for carrying out a security mission. An impact on the recruitment or recurrent complaints of military personnel is not particularly noted. An amendment to the above mentioned legal texts is therefore not currently being studied. However, a number of measures have been taken to alleviate the impact on daily operation. In reply to a previous question by Mr Yüksel, I mentioned a number of them. Here again, I would like to mention that the future recruitment of new recruits will have to allow a better distribution of the workload.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You have also explained the legislation well. If people have been employed by the Defense Department for less than three years, they can ask for their resignation and then they are very exceptionally refused. I can, of course, accept that the reason is not given or asked for in the case of voluntary dismissal, but perhaps you still have an idea based on the figures before and after the Homeland operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u43	Mr Yüksel, that is why I am referring to the answer I gave on 30 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u44	I have the answer you gave to Mr Hufkens here with me. I've read it correctly several times, but I can't find any answers to my questions. I have just said in my reply that I assume you say that there is no reason for voluntary resignation. I'd like to take that. But perhaps you will have an idea, based on the large numbers, whether or not they have been fired since the Homeland operation? I do not need exact figures, but I assume that, on the basis of the real situation, you can give an impression whether more or less have been fired. I would also have liked answers to a number of questions concerning the refusals to resign. You say the dismissal is exceptionally refused. Well, I'd have liked to have gotten some figures from you on those refusals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u45	Minister, the question was indeed raised in plenary, but that was not entirely the same. As far as the figures are concerned, you refer to the fact that you do not know the reason when it comes to voluntary dismissal. I will ask another written question about the number of redundancies, but in the private sector, and sometimes in public services, there is also a dismissal, if a good HR policy is to be pursued. That resignation interview doesn't get whoever resigns back to his decision. It's not about that. Its purpose is to have a general discussion about why the employee has resigned, what can be improved on working conditions and so on, so that the employer can learn from it and ensure that the number of redundancies and staff turnover are reduced in the future. I suppose and hope that there will also be dismissals in the Defense Department. That is why it is not necessary to say who said what, but it is possible to give general figures on the reasons why someone is resigning. This may be for family reasons, which may be related to working conditions or wage conditions, etc. These issues have already been raised in previous questions. In order to make Defence an attractive employer in the future, this needs to be addressed. With regard to your remark that dismissal within three years is contrary to the general interest of the service, I can support you. Defence has given an education in general terms, and therefore expects something back from the person recruited. However, you also make a reference: it is only in exceptional circumstances that there may be a derogation and then the dismissal is allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u46	No, no, no. I said it's basically... my intention is to follow my HR people, in other words, the staff, in these kinds of files. I'm applying the existing regulations. Perhaps for the sake of clarification, Mr Top: in the case of very exceptional social reasons and so on, it is only exceptional that there should be no dismissal outside the period of return.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u47	Minister, I am talking about the period of return.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u48	I didn't say anything about that earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u49	That's right. The return period is the first three years. In that case, I believe that the fact that the military are now carrying out street security orders is an exceptional circumstance. It is not the task for which they have chosen to originate. It's an interpretation. For the record, this is not a black and white discussion. It is about motivation of the military involved, which is why their resignation is accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u50	Mr Top, I would like to address ten soldiers on the street with you in a moment. We will talk to them about motivation. I am really tired of being given the impression that the military are all out on the street against their will. Instead of speaking to your trade unionists, you'd better talk to the people on the street. Go and speak with them and ask them what concerns them. What concerns them is that they can relax well in the evening. I've worked hard on that. What concerns them is that they have a decent bed in which they can sleep at night. I've worked hard on that. What concerns them is that they are offered a good regularity in what they do. We have worked hard on this too. But stop talking about Defence, which is today a very attractive employer, whatever the recruitment figures continue to prove, giving the impression that people can't do anything. You're gonna tell us we're not gonna make the recruitment rates. Well, I guess that's it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u51	Mr. Secretary, don't get mad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u52	I'll make myself angry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u53	I'm just asking a question. I have also pointed out that it is not a black and white debate. I pointed that out to you myself. I have also pointed out that it can only be an improvement for the defence and for the operation of HR if these points are taken into account. Apparently, there are soldiers working the streets who don't like that job. In the other case, the trade union representing them would not make those comments. To my question about the report on remuneration given by the trade unions, this is my last point, you have not answered, except that you will not touch it. I take note of your reply that you have no intention of affecting the remuneration and working methods of leave arrangements. You have referred to the legislation and to the relevant rules and have stated that you will not change them. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u54	Mr. Minister, according to a Belgian message dated 11 March 2017, Belgian F-16 aircraft over the Netherlands intercepted an Indian passenger aircraft that no longer responded to instructions from air traffic control. The so-called Quick Reaction Alert (QRA) entered into force. From the base of Florennes, F-16-year-olds rose to make visual contact with the device. Earlier that week, F-16s intercepted a Hungarian plane. Fortunately, there was no threat of either. Since 1 January 2017, there has been a cooperation between the Benelux countries, which amounts to a turn role between Belgium and the Netherlands. These countries keep two devices ready for possible QRA calls over Belgium, Luxembourg or the Netherlands in turn for four months. Thanks to this agreement, both air forces save resources and pilots, which they can then use elsewhere. Minister, how many times did QRA have to enter into force in 2016? What was the nature of the incidents? How many times has this been the case in 2017 since the start of the cooperation? What was the nature of the incidents? How many times was there a QRA in Belgian airspace? How many Belgian F-16s were deployed for this purpose? How many times was there a QRA in the Dutch or Luxembourg airspace? How many times have Belgian F-16s been deployed? Are there any known cases where there was a terrorist threat? What's the scenario for such an effective threat? Who gives the order, especially when Dutch aircraft are operating above Belgian territory or vice versa? How many pilots will Belgium use for permanence on the two bases in Florennes and Kleine Brogel? What was the figure before the entry into force of the Benelux Cooperation Agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u55	Mr Yüksel, in 2016, QRA units were commissioned five times to take off for 22 air incidents and perform an interception. It was always about a loss of radio communication between a civilian aircraft and civilian traffic control. In 2017, the Belgian QRA units, following seven reported air incidents, took off twice effectively. Again, this was always a loss of radio communication. The first incident occurred entirely in Belgian airspace. During the second incident, the interception to the east of Eindhoven took place in the Dutch airspace. There has been no terrorist threat to date. Should a terrorist threat occur, the QRA may be used in the Benelux airspace under the command of the NCA, the National Governmental Authority of the country where the aircraft are at that time, in other words, the country above which the interception takes place. If you fly over Belgium, I'm NGA. In the event of an escalation, the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior will be added. That is independent of whether those fighter planes are now Dutch or Belgian Defence. If the threat moves, an order transfer will take place at the border of each nation. An aircraft coming from France, for example, is under the supervision of the French NCA. In France, that's my homologist. I'm being asked if I'm ready to take over the role of NCA. I will then take over and when the plane is flying to Germany, Germany will be asked if they are ready to take over. That's how it works. Before January 2017, our permanence, which we only carried out, consisted of two F-16s and a reserve with a total of two pilots and all that goes with it, which are operational 24/7. Since 1 January 2017, the QRA has been continuously implemented on the basis of a quarterly rotation between Belgium and the Netherlands. We took the first rotation and the Netherlands will carry out the second rotation from 11 May. In this way, every nation will save six months of QRA permanence on an annual basis. The distribution between Florennes or Kleine Brogel is a purely operational issue and therefore totally irrelevant, because the procedures are 100 % similar.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u56	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u57	Minister, at the end of 2014, the hotel of Club Prince Albert was closed. In May 2015, the restoration facilities were also limited, so that the holding of banquets or large dinners was no longer possible. Some of the staff were fired. Another part was transferred to the Department of Defense. If one wanted to use the restoration accommodation a private company had to be hired. Now some banquets would have been held in the club again, and even staff would have been recruited again. My questions to you are therefore the following. Are you aware of this situation? Could you explain them briefly? Could you not provide a permanent use of the Club Prins Albert for the closure of the hotel and for the reduction of the restoration accommodation? Can you confirm that staff was reassigned to the restoration of the Club Prince Albert? Is this about DOD personnel again or outsourcing? More specifically, are the staff assigned to the Club Prins Albert before the hotel closure and part of the catering business? If not, why not? How many employees of the total number were re-employed in the club? What is the current financial picture of the restoration within the Club Prince Albert compared to that before the hotel closes in 2014? Finally, does this situation affect the ongoing pilot projects on outsourcing of catering and catering within Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u58	First of all, I would like to point out that no one was fired. People who wanted to leave are allowed to leave. All the others, including the contractual ones, have been given a different job. So the operation happened without discharge. In early 2015, the operating framework and assignments of the Club Prins Albert (CPA) were redefined. All activities held in CPA fall within this operating framework and are limited to providing a certain meeting and restoration capacity. It is true that in 2015 there were financial reasons to intervene, but it was mainly for security reasons that the total activities were stopped. Fire safety was at such a level that as the final manager I could not ignore the fire department's advice. With the redeployment in early 2015, the workforce was halved. No new recruitments have taken place since then. The staff policy is entirely in the hands of DG Human Resources and is limited to filling in the posts foreseen. Staff who had been or wanted to leave have been given a new job, including contractual staff. We have also held social consultations on this issue. Together with the unions, we have chosen to work without dismissal, whatever happened. Two of these contractual staff remained employed in CPA. The CPA currently operates with a limited surplus within the type of accounting that is maintained, i.e. a better balance than at the time. This situation does not affect and does not relate to the ongoing pilot projects concerning outsourcing of restoration services within the Defence Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The CPA can in this case be used within the contours of what is possible with the Defense Department. It seemed a little strange to me that they first chose to close down the matter there. You say this was mainly for security reasons. That is, of course, very plausible. Two people are currently employed there and the location is used for dinners and other reception options. I am also pleased that you say the use of CPA does not affect ongoing pilot projects on outsourcing within Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u60	There are indeed three questions, Minister. The first one dates from March 28th. There have, of course, been a lot of discussions since then. My first question is about what's going on at the parquet. During the hearings on greater transparency in military operations it was mentioned that in two cases after a Belgian bombing the federal prosecutor was called in to conduct an investigation. This was also discussed at the Defence press conference a week before. Now it has already been found that the federal prosecutor is looking at these cases, but not in all cases conducting an investigation. I would like some clarification on that. What was the occasion? Does the parquet take that initiative on its own or is that at the request of? Is there any outcome of the trial at the parquet in the two cases mentioned? When did any investigations take place? What kind of incidents were we talking about? I have a question to which you will certainly be able to answer. How many times has the public prosecutor opened an investigation or preliminary investigation between 2010 and now on air operations in Libya, Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria? Can you explain the exact circumstances in which the public prosecutor is asked to investigate a bombing? What is the procedure in that case? Should there be reasonable doubts as to whether or not civilian casualties have occurred in such a bombing? How does such an investigation proceed? What information is being used? It is, of course, very good that the impact and possible collateral damage and civilian casualties of Belgian bombings are reviewed. We know that the Department of Defense is keeping a close eye on that. We also rely on that, but the fact that in some cases investigations must be carried out by the public prosecutor undermines the statement you have always defended, namely that no civilian casualties have been caused by Belgian bombings. As a result of what happened around Mosul on 17 March, Belgium was involved in an international investigation, you can no longer say that, as the result of that international research is not yet known. Do you agree that, apart from the investigation into the events on 17 March, perhaps it would be better not to say so firmly that our bombing did not cause civilian casualties? I remain convinced that we cannot do that. From an intellectual point of view, we can never be sure about that. I have already said this a few times in the Netherlands. My second question concerns the incident in Mosul on 17 March. There was an explosion in a densely populated neighborhood that may have caused more than 100 civilian casualties. The international coalition against IS would be responsible. This is the subject of an investigation. You yourself stated that the possible involvement of Belgian aircraft is also being investigated. What can you tell us about the state of the investigation? When is clarity expected? In the meantime, is it clear what caused the explosion? What's the situation in Mosul? How's the recapture going on ISIS? What difficulties are encountered? I come to my third parliamentary question. On April 4th there was an attack in Syria with chemical weapons, possibly saringas. That's been confirmed by now. There is a good chance that Assad's regime is behind the attack, despite the fact that the regime claimed to have destroyed all chemical weapons in 2013 and 2014. On April 6, the American Air Force bombed the base Shayrat of the Syrian army in retaliation for the chemical attack. That attack was a turning point in President Trump's vision of the conflict in Syria. This has, of course, also caused diplomatic resentment, especially with Russia. Russia has suspended the agreement coordinating the operations of the United States and Russia. Air operations were no longer mutually announced by both parties. After Tillerson's visit to Moscow, it was stated that the agreement would be respected again. What impact did the suspension of that conflict agreement have on the operations of the international coalition? Did the coalition suspend its operations over Syria for a while? In what way is the international coalition involved in the conflict agreement? I come to what you and Minister Reynders have communicated. Has Belgium decided unilaterally at some point to stop operating over Syria? How do you explain that Minister Reynders announced on 10 April that there is no suspension of air operations, when you said the opposite? It is being examined whether Belgian F-16 people are involved in a bombing in the Mosul region that killed many civilians on 17 March. To what extent has that changed our operations over Iraq? What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u61	Madam President, Minister, in the same vein, I am basing myself on an article published on 23 March 2017 in Le Vif, which reported that 400,000 people would be "pied" in the old city of Mosul, a district under the control of the jihadists of the Islamic State group. This information was reportedly provided by a representative of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Iraq. As a reminder, an offensive was launched on 17 October by the international coalition and Iraqi pro-government forces. On 19 February 2017, the reconquest of the right bank, under the control of Islamic State forces, was decided by the international coalition. Mr Minister, is the figure of 400,000 individuals, as I read it, confirmed by your department? Are you able to tell us how many civilians would be present among these 400,000 people? How is the presence of civilians taken into account in the recovery of the old town of Mosul? Are solutions for the evacuation of civilians still present in the old city envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u62	Madam President, Minister, on April 7, the US forces unilaterally bombed a Syrian air base in a very impulsive response, it is acknowledged, and totally unexpected to the abhorrent chemical attack attributed to the Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria. In response, Russia announced the suspension of its cooperation agreement with Washington, which helps to avoid incidents between the coalition and Russia during their respective operations. On Friday 7 and Saturday 8 April 2017, the Belgian F-16 did not, according to you, take off to Syria. You said that the international coalition decided to temporarily suspend its operations to that country: "It is a wise decision of the allied command in Qatar to decide where our air operations are going. It is wiser to wait a little before you resume the missions. That's what's going to happen." A certain blur will reign for several days during these Easter holidays around the sustainability of the Desert Falcon mission itself. Your colleague in charge of foreign affairs, Mr Reynders, said that there was never a question of a definitive suspension of operations. These events take place in a context that has been explained in detail by my colleague Wouter De Vriendt, where a journalist from the Guardian implied in a tweet that the Belgian military "are" involved in the involuntary death of about 100 civilians during a coalition bombing in mid-March in Iraq. Mr Minister, without going into the details, unfortunately reserved for the Special Commission for the follow-up of missions abroad meeting in camera, could you tell me whether Belgian F-16s have flew over Syrian and Iraqi soil on observation missions and/or bombarded Syrian and Iraqi soil since 9 April? Could you give me the current status of the convention between Russia and the international coalition that was signed on 20 October 2015 by General Austin, former commander of the Central Command of the United States and Colonel-General Bondarev, the commander-in-chief of the Russian air force? Is this convention still in force? Did one of the partners officially denounce her? Could you please clarify the status of the investigative duties carried out concerning the suspicions of Belgian F-16 involvement in the death of a hundred civilians? I am thinking here of the prosecutor's investigation and the coalition investigation. In this context, are you considering requesting a verification and reformulation of the so-called Belgian red card holder procedure at the coalition headquarters in Qatar, if Belgium is involved? It is not yet safe at this stage, and we must be careful about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u63	My first question concerns the bombings carried out by the Belgian F-16s. Already last February, I asked you about the report published by the NGO Airwars on the lack of transparency of our F-16 operations in Iraq and Syria. At the time, you claimed that Belgium had not caused any civilian casualties during these operations. Since then, in one month, there have been more than 400 new innocent civilian victims who died in Syria and Iraq under the bombings of the Western coalition. And that figure is the one that dates from the moment when the question was introduced, since, since then, even more civilian victims are to be deplored. On 25 March, the United States army recognized the death of at least 200 civilians around Mosul following the bombing of one of the international coalition aircraft on 17 March. Is it a Belgian plane that dropped the bomb that caused this massacre on an unprecedented scale? We have the right to ask ourselves the question. Almost daily, civilian casualties fall under western bombs. We are not going to draw up the list that would be endless but the only statistics we know about Belgian participation were recalled by Ludo De Brabander of the ASBL Vrede in a white card published in De Morgen on 29 March. I quote his figures: "45 per cent of Belgian F-16 interventions are bombing interventions." So our F-16s are not just recognition. Moreover, "70 per cent of our F-16 interventions are carried out around the city of Mosul and 17 per cent around the city of Raqqa in Syria". If 70% of Belgian F-16 operations take place in the Mosul region and it is in this region that the number of civilian casualties has been highest in recent weeks, how can you say that the bombings of Belgian F-16s do not result in civilian casualties? Is a Belgian aircraft involved in the bombing of Mosul? What is the status of the request for a public international inquiry into this matter? Just as in the case of the chemical weapon attack, which is the subject of another issue, it is essential that this case be fully investigated in an independent United Nations-led investigation. The results must be fully public. Finally, do you think that a number of deaths of this magnitude can still be described as collateral victims? With this coalition, are you not sowing seeds for future chaos and possible new terrorist groups in the region, as many experts already predict? This is my second question about the chemical attack and the American replica. We don't know exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u64	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u65	Maybe you know exactly what happened. In fact, I'm asking you for some information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u66	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u67	I have two questions. I repeat, we don't know exactly what happened. What is clear is that it is very serious and that we also want to shed some light on the issue. The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons has not accused anyone but is trying to collect data. We have to help him in that direction. For the time being, there is no real independent international investigation under the auspices of the United Nations. However, this should be a priority as should be the case for the possible bombing of Belgian F-16. Still, the President of the United States decided to retaliate by sending more than fifty missiles on a Syrian army base on 6 April. It's a first. The United States directly and deliberately attacks the Syrian government. Almost sixty missiles hit this Syrian military base. The symbol is strong. The United States and its allies, including Belgium, have been violating Syrian airspace daily for years. Officially, it was a matter of attacking Daesh. Today, Trump conveys the message that he is ready to change this and also attack the Syrian regime of Bashar Al-Assad. The attack received the enthusiastic support of Saudi, Israeli and Turkish coalition "allies". Your government, like other Western governments, have, I believe, also supported this attack, calling it "understandable" and "warning". This was yet another clear and dangerous violation of international law, as Professor of International Law Eric David pointed out very clearly. Mr Minister, does the Belgian Government consider that this is indeed a violation of international law? If so, does he condemn it? Russia is threatening to suspend cooperation with the US Army in Syria. If that were the case, would it pose a great danger? With almost 20 countries involved in air raids in Syria, can an incident between major powers be excluded? Is there not a significant risk of escalation with Russia? What do you intend to do to avoid this escalation? Have Belgian flights over Syria been suspended or not? In fact, different information is circulating on this subject. This is not the first time that we have seen differences between your colleague Didier Reynders and yourself. I remember that on the nuclear capability of the successor of the F-16, your versions were already diverging. So it would be interesting if you could clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u68	Mr Van Hees, I would like to say that you have mentioned so much information that I really wonder why you are shouting for more transparency because you know more than I do! With regard to the incident of 17 March and the current situation in Mosul, I can only repeat that we must wait for the official report, which will clarify what has just happened. You have been able to read various assumptions with me in the media, but I do not think it is appropriate for me to comment on assumptions here. It's appropriate for me to wait for the official report, no matter how difficult it is for me. Once I have received that report, we will see what classification the authors of that report will give it and report back to the public or to the Commission for the Follow-up of the Foreign Shipments. On the ground, during the past Easter weekend, the Iraqi forces have once again gained ground. It is clear, Mrs Jadin, that there are still 400 000 inhabitants in Mosul. That's a quarter of Mosul's population before the war. They are mainly located in areas where jihadists are located. They face a great risk, not only by getting closer to the front, which increases the risk of collateral damage, but above all by the presence of Daesh, IS, which for nothing recedes to protect itself and uses civilians as a living shield. On Youtube you'll find lots of videos... they're not pleasant images... on which one sees how IS coagulates people in sensitive places near explosives to build a human shield. For reasons related to the security of operations, I cannot and do not want to detail here all the precautionary measures taken to avoid civilian casualties. However, these measures were described in detail at the Operations Monitoring Committee on several occasions. I invite you to tell Mr. Thiéry who can assure you, without revealing the content. It is new to you, Mr Van Hees, but it is the House that decides these measures; it is not me who decides. The coalition took the operations in Mosul, which are led and executed by our Iraqi partners. They have, as much as we do, the will to protect their fellow citizens and to allow their evacuation with the assistance of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees, while respecting the law of armed conflict. As already mentioned, the investigation into the tragedy of 17 March is still under way, but Belgian operations have resumed as before. The procedures and rules established are designed to avoid civilian casualties and are strictly applied by the coalition and Belgium in particular. Belgium has its own rules of engagement. We have no reason to change them at this time. With regard to the US attack on the Syrian air base on 7 April 2017, this was a unilateral US action. This action had nothing to do with the coalition. Currently, there is no evidence of danger or risk of escalation. It should also be noted that, to date, Russia and the United States are respecting their mutual commitment to coordination or de-conflicting of operations in the area, in order to avoid potential incidents. The American strike, however, led to the temporary suspension of coalition operations, but they resumed as before. I would like to repeat what has been said in the media and to what extent I would or would not contradict Didier Reynders. Mr Reynders said in his interview on the radio that there was no political consultation on suspending actions over Syria or Iraq. That's right. That's what I said. I have said that there has been no unilateral Belgian decision, despite what journalists want to make on Sunday afternoons. There has been no political decision from Belgium to suspend our actions. The fact is that we are not asked to fly in this or that place every day and that on those specific days...Friday, the day after the attack, we have not been asked to fly over Syria. As Mr. Hellings also knows, Saturday is a day dedicated to the interview. We're not stealing. There are reports of overflights of Syria on Saturdays and Sundays at night, but as I said, the situation is monitored and evolving from minute to minute. It is the coalition that decides the actions. You can look for contradictions in this government, but you will not find one on this issue. It was said exactly the same thing: no Belgian political decision was taken on the suspension of anything. As far as the public prosecutor is concerned, Mr De Vriendt, I will try again to explain the procedure. Back in the day, the Defense Department had its own legal department. There's no such thing anymore. Other procedures have been in place since then. In the committee behind closed doors we explained two operations using images. This is not about the explosion of 17 March 2017. For that we still have no confirmation of involvement, nor a denial. There are two other incidents in which we have asked the coalition, as a precaution, to look further into whether anything could have happened. In addition, the Ministry of Defence itself reported the two specific cases to the public prosecutor, which, of course, decides autonomously whether or not to open an investigation. Neither of the files reported by the Defense Department to the public prosecutor whose findings of the international coalition have been submitted to the public prosecutor have given rise to further investigation. Basically, the two incidents before the court are no longer incidents. The case isn't open, so it can't be closed. We weren't acquitted, either. No investigation has been carried out because the court didn't see any reason to do so. During the operations over Libya and Afghanistan, no complaints were made against our military. Apart from the right of initiative of the federal prosecutor, in the past, the Ministry of Defence has submitted a limited number of cases to the judicial authorities for control. These are incidents of all kinds, such as abuses of military personnel during their operations. As in all the court files, the facts themselves are covered by the secret of the investigation, but I can confirm that until now we know that no prosecution has been brought. This kind of research is not only being carried out on the initiative of Belgium, but also the coalition can launch an independent investigation at any time. Anyway, Defense will do everything in its power to cooperate with the Federal Office in a transparent manner, following the procedure that has been set out several times in the Commission for the Succession of Foreign Shipments. I have just explained the procedure to you again. It is generally accepted as such by the federal court. Should there ever be an investigation, the DOD will, of course, submit all information, whether secret or not, to the court. I would like to stress once again that defence operations are always carried out in accordance with the order of operations and Belgian and international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u69	Minister, I think you need to communicate more publicly about international operations. We have already had that discussion. We can discuss what can and cannot be communicated. For us, the red line is the protection, the security of our military, plus the effectiveness of the operation. If these two conditions are taken into account, much more public can be said than what you are doing today. I think you should take that step. For example, that we are involved in an international investigation into potential civilian casualties, we should be able to hear from you as Minister of Defence and not from a journalist or from some detour as a Twitter. There is no doubt in my group that the results of international research should be communicated to the public, because it is logical that a country should account for a bombing or military operation. If things go wrong or even go badly wrong, I think that is the logic itself, even for the sake of the next of kin. In this way, the next of kin know at least which country is responsible for killing their family members. Finally, it goes without saying that we must do everything we can to avoid civilian casualties. Green is always very critical of Western military operations. In some cases it can and must, but in many other cases it does not and much more political context is needed. There is no military quick fix for complex political problems. Victims of civilians only increase the risk of more frustration among the population, more segregation, more separation and more problems in the future. After Al Qaeda, there was ISIS and after ISIS maybe something else. You know the reasoning. My estimate is that the Air Force is cautious. Let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u70	Minister, thank you for the detailed information you provided us today and for insisting on some very important issues. It is difficult but necessary to strike the right balance between the protection of our troops on the ground in the face of ongoing operations. It is also necessary to provide information and I have heard that you are doing what you consider necessary in the situation we are experiencing. As far as the general context is concerned, we are surprised that, to date, we must still deplore the situation in Mosul for which we must find military and humanitarian solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u71	Madam Chair, Minister, wait to see the results of the coalition investigation to discuss it at the appropriate place to review the procedures. I am not calling into question the procedure as such at this stage, let alone our military until we know for sure that they are involved. As Mr. From Vriendt, more transparency would avoid lies and propaganda from the Russians, as it happened a few months ago, or from Daesh eventually, if in this case Belgium should not be involved. Secondly, unfortunately I come to the bottom, the collateral damage is disastrous in several respects. And there will be more and more of them as our defence is led to bombard densely populated areas like eastern Mosul, where the collateral damage of a hundred affected people has occurred. This is disastrous for the people concerned and the people who lost their family members in the bombings. It is disastrous for the political legitimacy of the strikes on the ground and for the political effectiveness of the mission of the Falcon orders itself. Why? Because how can we explain to the Sunnis of Mosul that they are freed from Daesh when the coalition is visibly responsible for the deaths of hundreds of civilians, the same Sunnis we are supposed to release? The strategic issue needs to be considered. You know that we are totally opposed to the idea of this convention between Russia and the coalition. This makes us dependent on the Russians as well as on the regime of Bashar al-Assad, which, in my view, is unacceptable. I would remind colleagues that Daesh's main force is political. It's a cult. It has highly motivated fighters ready to explode, using weapons, including weapons of war and explosives. But Daesh does not have an aircraft, no missile or chemical weapon, at least in large quantities, and does not have barrels of powder to pour through his aircraft on Aleppo, for example. The regime of Bashar al-Assad has them. So if I think that we must be able to find a political solution, the political solution against Daesh will not go without putting an end to a regime that despises the Sunnis, relegates them to the background and which now makes these Sunnis unfortunately tempted to join the ranks of the Islamic State. It is this process that we must be able to help combat rather than amplify it. Unfortunately, I think that today's bombings with the collateral victims will further amplify Daesh's attractiveness or, as Mr. From Vriendt, from his successor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u72	Minister, thank you for your different answers and non-responses. You're telling us we have to wait for the official report. I wonder who's writing this official report. Will it be an independent report? I think the independence of such a report would be desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u73	How many times do I have to repeat that it is the coalition that will report? Mr Van Hees, I have said this in the press at least 20 times; I have said it here in Parliament at least five times. I don't know how many times you have to hear it to assimilate it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u74	I hear what you're saying. That's the coalition. So it will not be an independent report! That is the conclusion. A report under the auspices of the United Nations would have been an independent report. We're not going to have an independent report here. As far as the deadline is concerned, we have to wait a month. This kind of investigation obviously takes time. We have been waiting for this report for a month. But apparently, when there is a chemical attack, there, we know directly, overnight, who did it. There, everything is directly clear. On the other hand, in another case, it's not like that. I am still surprised at these differences in treatment. Either there's a problem on one side or the other. You're telling us there's no risk of climbing. I'd like to believe you, Minister. There would be no risk of escalation with the United States and Russia in particular. Unfortunately, I'm a little less optimistic. It is true that the unpredictability of the U.S. President that we see in several cases must still cause us concern. I suppose you're also worried, minister, sometimes, sometimes, when you think about it, if you think about it. Of course, the problem – and we have already had an opportunity to discuss it – is your lack of transparency. It's an important problem. This opacity is not justified. If it is security that justifies it, how is it that other countries that sometimes have a more important role are much more transparent than Belgium? It's quite incomprehensible. Minister, we can only conclude that you have things to hide!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u75	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u76	There are many countries that are more transparent. I've one day given you the list, I can give it back to you if you have to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic643x.u77	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 176, by Mrs Jadin and Question No 17615 17810 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez will be converted into written questions.
