ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u2	Article 50 of the Constitution states that "A member of one of the two chambers appointed by the King as Minister and appointing him shall hold his office and resume his term of office when the King has ceased his office as Minister." Article 50 of the Constitution provides that "the member of one of the two Chambers, appointed by the King as Minister and accepting him, shall cease to sit and resume his term of office when he has been terminated by the King as Minister". According to Article 1a of the Law of 6 August 1931 determining the incomparencies and disqualifications concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as the members and former members of the Legislative Chambers, the Minister of the Federal Government who ceases to sit is replaced by the first eligible successor to the list on which the Minister was elected. According to Article 1bis of the Act of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers, the minister of the federal government who ceases to sit is replaced by the first substitute in order of the list on which the minister was elected. We must replace Ms Zuhal Demir, appointed Secretary of State by the King on 24 February 2017. We must proceed with the replacement of Mrs Zuhal Demir, appointed Secretary of State by the King on 24 February 2017. By e-mail of 7 March 2017, Ms Els Verbist, first successor to the N-VA list for the Antwerp constituency, renounces her mandate. By e-mail of 7 March 2017, Ms.Els Verbist, the first alternate of the N-VA list in the electoral district of Antwerp, renounces her mandate. Consequently, Mr Wim Van der Donkt, second successor to the N-VA list for the Antwerp constituency, will take the oath. Mr. Wim Van der Donckt, second deputy of the N-VA list in the electoral district of Antwerp, will take the oath. The credentials of this successor were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. The credentials of this alternate were validated at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Since the additional examination required by Article 235 of the Choice Code refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the present circumstances, is purely formal. I therefore propose that this successor be allowed to sit as a member of the Chamber of Representatives in place of a member appointed by the King as minister and for as long as he is in office. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this alternate to serve as a member of the House of Representatives in place of the member appointed by the King as Minister and during the term of office of the Minister. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I would ask Mr Van der Donkt to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr Wim Van der Donckt to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u3	Mr Wim Van der Donkt will be part of the Dutch language group. Mr Wim Van der Donckt will be a member of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u4	By letter dated 24 February 2017, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decree of 24 February 2017 entitled "Government discharge'. By letter dated February 24, 2017, the Prime Minister transmitted a copy of the Royal Order of February 24, 2017 entitled "Government – Resignation – Appointment". By way of notification Pour information
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u5	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 March 2017, I propose that on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session, the draft law on the granting of disponibility with waiting time and leave prior to the waiting time pension by registering the autonomous State of Belgocontrol, Nos 2291/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 March 2017, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the draft law on the granting by the independent public enterprise Belgocontrol of a waiting period and a pre-pension leave with waiting treatment, Nos. 2291/1 to 3. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now turn to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u6	Before we begin, I must remind you that there are a lot of oral questions. That is all the more reason to respect the two-minute speaking time for the question, two minutes for the answer and one minute for the reply. I'll be tighter than before.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u7	Minister, we were here about a month ago. There were thunderstorms above the site of Bombardier Bruges. Five hundred employees would lose their jobs, even if there was an agreement that at least 250 jobs could remain until 2021. A restructuring was announced, and the production departments would disappear. You have acted decisively and the closure is now absolutely out of the question. But, uh, there are question marks. The only certainty the trade unions have received so far is that from 2018 the plant in Bruges will be run from France. This means that some 120 executives and administrative staff will disappear in Bruges. Also important is that Bruges will become, as it were, a lean factory, which means that it will depend on the local market. We read that the company depends on the orders of De Lijn and SNCB. That is exactly where the problem lies. The contract on the M7 double deck trains concluded with SNCB clearly states that the trains will be made in the Brugse department in connection with work planning. The order was given to the Spanish CAF for the trams, but the Council of State auditor said that mistakes had been made, namely that the quality and follow-up of the trams were not taken into account. I have asked several times whether the Flemish Government, especially Minister Weyts, is prepared to reopen that order. Do you have any idea when the new M7 trains will be made in Bruges? Secondly, have any promises been made in your contacts with the European Executive Board of Bombardier, for example in relation to sustainability? Thirdly and finally, do you have contact with your Flemish colleague to reopen the tender for the trams?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Demon, this is, of course, a very serious dossier, given that this depends on the job of many workers, workers who have rightly been concerned about this for weeks. Since Bombardier's announcement that the world wants to drain 3,500 staff by 2019, we have taken up this dossier and we have engaged in very intensive consultations. We have consulted with the European summit in Bombardier and with the trade unions. I must honestly say that the calm manner in which the trade unions and the staff of Bombardier Bruges deal with the dossier is very important. It is to their credit that they keep their heads cool, try as best as possible to safeguard employment there during this difficult period and not stop production. As you rightly said, there are contacts both with the federal government, with my colleague Mr Bellot, with the Flemish Government and with the city of Bruges to join forces and to ensure that we can make the most of the issues. On 1 March there was a European Works Council. Before that meeting, we had contact with the European summit in Bombardier and warned that if the summit on that works council made it clear that, as the unions fear, 200 to 250 workers would have had to leave, the conversation would have been done and we would be in a completely different context. Now, on 1 March, the summit declared that you can look at this in the documents that were then distributed that it would not set a figure on the redundancies in Bruges and that all would depend on the further negotiations. On 6 March, we had talks with the European summit to ask about the M7's for SNCB and for De Lijn. With regard to the M7s for SNCB, we assume that the contract will be carried out, even if there is a passage that can be produced elsewhere. We have clearly stressed that the M7 sets must be produced in Bruges, as the contract states. We also assume, of course, that the Flemish Government can commit itself to De Lijn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u9	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u10	I will conclude, because we still have many parliamentary questions. Firstly, we are doing everything we can to maintain employment in Bruges as much as possible. I do not know how many redundancies there will be, but we have made it clear that we cannot agree to redundancies in the order of 200 employees. I have a second point to make, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u11	Yes, but you exceed your speaking time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u12	Secondly, by the summer of this year, we need to clarify the situation of Bombardier, including the other aspects of the contract. The file has been dragging on for far too long. Workers must not be left in the dark about the future of their business until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u13	It is very good to hear that before the summer there is a need to clarify employment, Mr Vice-Prime Minister. If there are any redundancies, then I would like good agreements to be made, because trust between the international management and the local workers has also been violated. Thank you for your hard work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u14	Minister, last week Thomas Vanderveken advocated more parental leave for daddies on television. He had a need to spend more time with his son than the ten days of paternity leave he had received. Madam Secretary of State then followed in another television programme, which you would argue for the introduction of the Scandinavian system. You know, of course, that the Scandinavian countries are the frontrunner in the fight for equality between men and women. That's something to be proud of. Our country is also following. However, when it comes to parental leave, they invest in it and they spend money on it. Sweden, for example, gives sixteen months of parental leave, two months exclusively for the mommy, two months exclusively for the daddy and twelve months free to distribute among the mommy and daddy, the two mommy's... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u15	Or the two daddies, but daddies don't give birth to their own. Anyway, also the daddies have their rights, in any form of the couple. That's right. Our group supports this fight for equality between men and women. We have therefore tabled a proposal of our own, together with new daddy Vincent Van Quickenborne. I see that you are touched by the subject, ladies and gentlemen. I am very pleased with your attention on the subject. We have therefore tabled a proposal which allows the last five weeks of maternity leave, which are not mandatory by the mother, to be distributed freely within the couple. A couple must have the freedom to choose who fills in those last five weeks. They can do that together to be at home with the baby. They can give the last five weeks to the daddy or the co-parent. The mommy can take the five weeks all by herself. Anything must be possible, because we believe in freedom of choice and we are not in favour of an obligation. Mr President, I will conclude with three questions. Firstly, Minister, what measures have you already taken in relation to parental leave and time credits? The dossiers have been pending for a long time here in the Committee on Social Affairs. Secondly, what is your personal opinion on the Scandinavian system? Are there any resources for that? Thirdly, what is your opinion on the fantastic proposal of the Open Vld Group to distribute the last five weeks of maternity leave between both parents?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen, these are very important questions. I wish young father Vincent Van Quickenborne all fatherhood. What is my opinion on Open Vld's proposal? All the proposals from Open Vld are interesting, so that proposal is also interesting. However, all madness, Mr President, I see that the atmosphere is good, but I am, of course, losing my time in this way. Firstly, when it comes to parental leave, it is an important element to work in a sustainable way with the relationship between work and private life, and also to ensure that people are able to connect their private life and their work in a good way. Secondly, in the recent past, we have already taken steps to extend care leave and palliative leave through the law on workable and manoeuvrable work, which will be published for clarity on 15 March 2017. On parental leave we have received ideas and proposals from Open Vld but also from other parties. I'm open to looking at them. There's a good evolution. I thought you'd focus more on paternity leave. I understand from studies that in 2013 81 percent of fathers took up the right to paternity leave. The most recent figures from a 2016 study speak of 85% of fathers who take up that right. We are faced with a new and important evolution. It's not just the mothers who take parental leave. The fathers also do what we can all applaud. I'd like to examine your proposal to leave a choice. We will, of course, have to look at this in terms of budgetary impact. I trust that you will warm up colleagues in the government for this and that this will not pose a major problem in the budget. I'm open to your suggestion. As far as Scandinavia is concerned, I will look into the situation there when I have the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u17	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Despite the fact that a lot of laughing promotes our quality of life, I do not think this is a theme to laugh with. This is serious. The figures you just quoted prove that 85% of the daddies take their paternity leave. This means that an obligation is no longer necessary in practice, because it is their right to do so. That is a huge step forward and that confirms the trend that fathers too want to take on the active role of caring for their child. This is a huge trend break with the past. We want to actively promote this and I suggest that you take a good look at our proposal, because it is a proposal that does not cost money.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u18	Mr Minister, yesterday, a former Turkish Minister of the AKP at the meeting in Brussels called on the Turks here to vote on 16 April for the extension of the power of tyrant Erdogan in Turkey. During that meeting yesterday he also announced a big meeting where Erdogan himself might come to speak. We know what that means, we have experience of it. That tyrant Erdogan considers the Turks here to be serfs of the Turkish state, as soldiers for the conquest of Islam, is terrible. Even worse but not surprising, I have been warning you for years, is that the Turks here, or many of them, are behaving like the fifth column of the tyrant Erdogan and the Ottoman Empire actually want to extend to the shores of the Scheldt. They import their conflicts, their ideas, and their methods into our country, and they only sow mischief and division there, don't they, Mr De Roover? We can spare Erdogan and his party's Turkish political meetings in our country as a toothache. I think that, after many years of moving insight, everyone is slowly but surely in agreement on this. Despite all the muscular language, including the leader of the N-VA, who is silent in all languages today, the meeting took place yesterday in Brussels. In Germany, she was forbidden. The Belgian government allowed the meeting, behaves like tyrant Erdogan's submissive lackey and actually collaborates with the AKP, in stark contrast to Mrs Merkel, where this meeting with the same speaker was banned in Germany. I think there's no room here for the AKP party of Erdogan and his ideas. Because they would understand well, all those Belgian Turks or Turkish Belgians, I would like to say it again in Turkish. "Uzak dur, bu bizim ülkemiz. That means stay out of here. This is our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u19	Mr Dewinter, I have the habit of addressing the questioner in the language he used. You will commend me for doing this only in Dutch, because my Turkish is less developed than yours. Like Mrs Lijnen, who said in the previous question that it was too serious to joke about, I believe that the subject you are discussing here is also quite serious. Mr Dewinter, I am a member of the executive and I can only use the legal elements that you, the Parliament, are giving me to do my job. A legal element is applicable, namely Article 11 of the Police Office Act, which provides: "Without prejudice to the powers conferred upon them by or under the law, the Minister of the Interior and, where appropriate, the Governor shall exercise the powers of the Mayor or of the municipal institutions in subsidiary order where they, whether voluntarily or not, fail to fulfil their responsibilities, where the disturbance of public policy extends over the territory of several municipalities or, even if the event or situation is located only in a single municipality, the general interest requires their intervention. This article thus states that, in the first instance, the mayor, in the context of the monitoring of public order, is monitoring whether there are things that are damaging public order. If it allows, where appropriate, certain events and I, as Minister of the Interior, have other elements or information, for example from the OCAD that informs me, then I can intervene. We will always, on a case-by-case basis, judge what happens. Of course, it cannot be the intention to restrict freedom of expression, but it is about maintaining public order. In these matters, too, I will take responsibility. I have no idea at this time of a meeting where Erdogan would come to speak. The Crisis Centre normally follows and is informed of such major events. We do not know about this at the moment. When the legal arsenal needs to be expanded, I invite the Chamber of Representatives to do so. You know that one group will take initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u20	Minister, a proverb says: 'Better one bird in the hand than ten in the air'. Despite all your group's proposals, I note that the Minister who bears the responsibility and has the means to ban this type of meeting is not acting. Your answer is in stark contrast to the words of your group leader, of course in the media, who every time gives the impression that the government will act when Turkish AKP ministers, former ministers or spokesmen come here. I believe that Article 11 does give you the opportunity to ban this kind of meeting on the basis of maintaining public order. I'll give you a hand. If Erdogan comes to speak in this country, in Flanders, in Genk, Antwerp or Brussels, my party will argue. We will argue with all the democratic means at our disposal. On the basis of that demonstration and the confrontation we will seek, you can ban the meeting with Erdogan. It's as simple as that. I am an expert on the subject: that argument has been used very often in the past to ban meetings of my party. I propose to you this means that, in cooperation with us, we break through the cordon sanitary to fight Erdogan, and that we ban access to this country, at least as a speaker at such a meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u21	Minister, a recent study coordinated by Minister of Economy Kris Peeters has shown that services in our country are becoming increasingly expensive. An important part of this is the price we pay for mobile phones, telephones and the Internet. If that price goes up, our purchasing power will of course fall. If we zoom in on the telecom file, under your responsibility, we have the problem of the so-called bundles. If consumers order and use different telecom services, Internet and telephony together, then we can see that Belgium is particularly detrimental in terms of pricing compared to neighbouring countries. The argument of the operators is that this is precisely because they invest very much. But there is also a great deal of investment in neighbouring countries. Minister, we must then ask why telecom services are more expensive in our Belgian context. What are we supposed to do about it? We can do a few things there. First of all, consumers should be able to compare the prices of telecoms services in a very simple way. In this context, we have formulated the proposal of the T-test or the telecom test, which allows consumers, as well as at best rates, to automatically compare their invoices, which can be even more user-friendly. There is also the Easy Switch project, where consumers who buy such a bundle can easily change operators. However, Europe rightly demands more from us. According to Europe, the maximum use can be made of water, electricity and gas pipelines for telecommunications infrastructure, for cables, for example for fibre optics for telephony and the Internet. Why does Belgium lag behind on that? Should there perhaps be more coordination between the regions, which have a major responsibility in this respect? Is there sufficient competition in our telecoms market or is the investment climate perhaps too unfavourable, so that there can be no downward pressure on prices? Minister, I will conclude with a practical concern on the part of our citizens. They do not want to start to change operators, because they have to have another container placed, the so-called decoder. Well, of course, there are systems that are technology-neutral and that allow users to switch even faster between Telenet, Proximus or another operator.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u22	Thank you for your question, Mr Deseyn. You refer to a study by your party colleague and my colleague, Kris Peeters. I'd like to quote that study. First of all, the study shows that telecom prices have fallen by about 6% over the last eight years. For the use of mobile phones, the decrease is as much as 46 %. The decline in our country is much greater than in our neighbouring countries. On the other hand, the prices for the bundles are slightly higher. In the same study some comments are made, among other things that the quality of our coverage is very good. Almost 99% of the population has access to very high-speed internet. We are the second best country in Europe. According to the study, the level of investment in our country is still higher than in other countries. In your question, you make it appear that that is not the case. At the same time, it notes that prices are higher. Even if it proves that infrastructure competition has worked well in our country, I believe there should be even more price competition. I share your opinion. We must ensure that prices go down. This is to the benefit of the consumer. How do we do that? First of all, I think that networks should be opened up to other operators. This can be done on the basis of a market analysis of the BIPT. It's going on today. Moreover, the previous market analysis made it possible for the cable to be opened up, so Orange now offers a product on the cable in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. We see that they do have an attractive offer. There are two further steps. Firstly, I had the Easy Switch project approved by the government. You referred to it. As of July, Easy Switch will make it easier to change operators. Secondly, there is best rate.be. That rate comparison may be a bit complex, but it is the most performant in Europe today. To sum up, we must ensure, firstly, that networks are opened up more easily, secondly, that comparison is made easier and, thirdly, that consumers wishing to switch from operator can do so more easily.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I certainly share all your ambitions in this respect. While the Internet was still a toy 20 years ago, it is now a necessary good. No one can function at school or at work without it. There are even those who dream of closing down city halls and letting people work only on the Internet. The dominant position of several companies must not, of course, lead to artificially high prices being cultivated. We must be very vigilant about this. You are right to say that infrastructure needs to be shared. Perhaps it would be best to consider whether a network operator could not be employed, which would then offer the capacity to the service providers. After all, it is a bleak competition when we have to double everything on such a small surface for fiberglass, for example. Good agreements must indeed be made between the operators. If the capacity is rented, it must be made available within a short time. If that does not happen, the little ones will have very few development opportunities. That's exactly what it's up to now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u24	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question of two cents of euro. You'll tell me it's not expensive, it's true, but it can make a lot of money. This is the request by bpost to increase the price of stamps by two cents of euro precisely. Two cents of euro is nothing at all, it is not worth talking about, but it is not entirely anecdotal. Indeed, this action could generate a revenue of twenty million euros, falling within the scarcelle of the bpost operating profit. If we put this project in a historical perspective, the increase in three years would be 8.5%. Currently, bpost results are good, so much so that the dividend that will be paid could be better than expected. bpost plans to pay a dividend also increased by two cents of euro, to restore it to the amount of 2015, with an additional revenue of two million euros for the federal shareholder state and an almost equivalent amount for private shareholders. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what is the state's position with regard to this request for an increase in the price of stamps? What is your personal feeling? Will the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) take a position and in what direction? Is this not a disguised form of taxation and a gain for the State, since these additional revenues come from our fellow citizens? Is the role of the State to defend the interests of as many as possible, even if they are diffused, or of shareholders, including their own? Do you not fear an effect on the volume of domestic mail, since by increasing the price, we risk aggravating the downward trend in postal traffic, which has already been observed for a few years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u25	Mr President, Mr Dispa, the adjustment of the price of stamps is enshrined in a law and it is for the IBPT to ensure compliance with this law. As you know, the IBPT is an independent regulator that is accountable to Parliament for its activities. bpost reviews the price of stamps every January. This choice has been made to guarantee universal service, which, for example, ensures that the factor passes five days a week throughout the country, even in the most remote areas. It should also be noted that the price of stamps in Belgium is quite low, since it is 30% cheaper than the European average. In doing so, if the IBPT were to approve this request for an increase of 2 cents, the price of stamps would remain well below the latter. As regards the dynamics in the postal market, the volume of letters is decreasing. Last year, it decreased by 5%, but the number of parcels sent per bpost increased significantly, with an increase of 17% in 2016 and 21% in the last three months of the year. If we consider these movements, we may think that a possible increase in the price of stamps will not really have a material impact on bpost revenues. Rather, it is the increase in the number of parcels that has a real impact on those revenues. Moreover, bpost intends to play an important role in the transport of parcels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u26	Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You stress the universal character of postal service. I'm right, but this universal character means that service remains affordable. To remain so, the transport of mail could, for example, be financed by the somewhat more profitable activity of delivery of parcels. You say the prices are relatively low. I invite you to put the interests of the greatest number above that of the shareholders. Don't make the mistake of your Finance colleague who convinced the government to increase the excise duty to finally realize that it generated less revenue. Here, one may wonder whether the increase in the price of stamps is likely to have the same effect with a decrease in the volume of mail distributed. Anyway, thank you for the exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u27	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country has more than 180,000 condominiums. About 4 million citizens are involved in co-ownership and it is estimated that, in view of demographic changes, co-ownership will be increasing, especially in cities. In March 2016, I asked you about the evaluation of the condominium rules and you told me that a working group was in place. He released his recommendations at the beginning of the week and we were able to read about them. There are advances, in any case proposals that are quite interesting, the most emblematic of which is to change the rules of majority in the general assemblies, since we would go from 3/4 to 2/3 in order to be able to take decisions. It would also be possible to appoint a temporary administrator who would be responsible for resolving difficulties and conflicts before going to court. The members of the working group also provided for the possibility of making the contingency fund mandatory. These recommendations are obviously quite interesting. Minister, what is the timing for transferring these recommendations into legislation? Will the government endorse these recommendations? I regret that this working group has not gone further in the proposals. I am thinking in particular of a written annual report on the management of trustees and also of the issue of unpaid quotas. Indeed, it is known that all co-owners must pay for work, including maintenance or renovation work. It is noted that some do not and that, when the property is sold, condominiums are not preferred. It is the banking agencies that are, and I think it brings a lot of difficulties. For my part, I regret that this has not been taken into account. These, Minister, are the questions that I wanted to ask you following the publication of these recommendations by the working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Schepmans, thank you for your question. This week, the group of experts that I set up, under the chairmanship of Prof. Lecocq of the University of Liège and Prof.Sagaert of the University of Leuven, together with representatives of the various actors in the sector, made its recommendations in a brochure of which you have read. There are four guidelines in their proposals: flexibilization, optimization of efficiency, rebalancing the interests of trustees and co-owners, and some clarifications. With regard to the shares of unpaid co-owners, you have proposed in a bill a system of privileges which, although very interesting, is highly incisive throughout the current system of privileges. I have not yet adopted the alternative proposed by the working group. Their proposals will be submitted to the government. They proposed the creation of a reserve fund which, gradually, should be able to bear the exceptional costs of co-ownership. This choice between privilege and the reserve fund will be made within the government in the near future. Your proposal for an annual report will also be considered. Be sure that we will move forward and take your proposals into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u29	Minister, thank you for paying particular attention to the issue of condominiums. They are an issue of importance for the future of many neighbourhoods. Paying attention to them will help ensure harmony in the city, since there are more and more condominiums.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u30	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are all familiar here with the concept of Belgian coffers. How many human rights institutes are there at the moment? I'm getting the impression that it's way too much. Let me sum them up. We have Unia, which is already known, the migration center Myria, the Privacy Commission, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, the National Commission for the Rights of the Child. We also have a federal ombud service with two ombudsmen, a French language and a Dutch language. I don't think I've even listed them all yet. Another problem is the blurring of the statutes. One institution was set up by cooperation agreement with the Länder, another is simply an independent government institution. The Privacy Commission, for example, is another body that depends on the Chamber. The icing on the cake, Minister, you have been announcing the establishment of a national human rights institute for a long time. Former Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs, was also very enthusiastic about this, but I must warn you that this proliferation is simply no longer justified. I hope you're not going to build another crate, but you'll clean it up. Another important question for us is what this means for language legislation in the Flemish Rand. When I hear Mr Maingain, he claims that the human rights of French speakers in the Flemish Rand are being violated. According to the FDF, speaking Dutch is contrary to human rights. Mr. Secretary, will you clean up this wild growth? Is it intended to harmonise all these institutions under a single statute? What will be the status of the Human Rights Institute at all? Can it also look at language legislation, yes or no? I would also have liked to have your opinion on Unia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, I would like to thank you for warning me about barracks and complexity, both at federal, Flemish and international level. You realize that we live in a complex society, and I too wish that it was much simpler. Every time I am confronted with the coalition agreement, I see the following in it. We said in the government agreement that we would comply with our international obligations, the OPCAT Convention. I therefore drew this project from the beginning of the legislature, together with Mr Sleurs, and the draft note is ready and I had largely the agreement of Mr Sleurs. So I am counting on Mr Demir to speed up this dossier with me as soon as possible. The aim is to create an overarching mechanism, with as little double use as possible, which would cover both Myria, Unia and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and would allow better interfederal cooperation. It is also intended to include the National Commission on the Rights of the Child, so that there is no risk of double use there. This will be done in accordance with international principles: functional, personal and financial independence of the mechanism, pluralistic composition and a broad mandate on human rights. Mr Demir and I will achieve this rapidity as soon as possible. Mr Demir, I am counting on this to be no problem at all. Every time we had to accelerate in the past, the current went faster than ever before. Having said that, we are going to submit our proposal to the Communities and the Regions for a cooperation agreement. At the end of 2017, I hope that the human rights mechanism will be operational if Mr Demir wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u32	Minister, you are talking about an umbrella body, so the proliferation continues. I thought we would save and we would put the bill in order. You say there's an institution coming up, it's dotted. The Institute for the Rights of the Child will be integrated into it. That's one good step. We did not get your vision of Unia, Minister. Our position is that we need to reform and simplify, that we need to put all institutions under one heading and let them work together. After all, we see that things sometimes go wrong. Unia is the example of this. Reforms are not done with tweets, Minister, but with plans. It doesn't help if a secretary of state tweets about that. It would be nice to have a solid plan on that. Nor did you respond to my concern about the Flemish Rand. If you say that the Länder are participating, I hope Flanders will not participate, because I am very afraid of the Flemish Rand. We are very afraid that the Flemish Rand will be crushed and, Minister, speaking Dutch is absolutely not a violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u33	Minister, above all, do not answer that you are always obliged to answer the same questions! If the same questions come back, we still have problems. The context here is the closure of the 43rd Correctional Chamber of the Brussels Court of Appeal, which refers to the lack of resources, and particularly the shortage of staff, in the judiciary. A Chamber of the Brussels Court of First Instance was closed because a magistrate was called as a delegate to the Court of Appeal, which itself did not have sufficient advisers to carry out its duties. Far from the virtuous circle, it is in a vicious circle that we are set up here. Mr Minister, you have told us regularly, particularly with regard to Brussels, that the framework was 100% fulfilled, and that it had even been increased because of the division of the judicial district of Brussels-Hal-Vilvorde. However, according to my figures, there are only 110 judges out of 122. Recently, you told us that for the judicial organization, 338 people would be recruited, including 62 magistrates. However, we realize that everywhere, the political line followed, not by you alone, but by the government, is to complete the framework only by 90%. In this way, the courts try to function and render the service they have to render to the people and thus to the people. Minister, I think you have abdicated from the will that was yours at the beginning of the legislature to announce that a judgment would be given in all cases throughout the year. I think you were not the only one who made this wish, but unfortunately, we are far from achieving it. Minister, my questions are very simple. What are you going to do to prevent such situations from going on? When are you finally going to fill in the 100% executives? Indeed, if executives are determined, it is not to be filled in up to 90%, but because they have, at some point, been considered justified. Filling them entirely is also justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u34	Mr Brotcorne, first of all let me say that you are pretending to know me well when you say that I would abdicate! That is in no way my intention. Thinking about it means not knowing me! In any event, under the BHV agreements, we have agreed to try to fill the Brussels executives 100%. For the moment, we have expanded the framework of French-speaking Brussels from 97 to 122 units. This framework is up to 97 per cent completed. The only court in the Kingdom with a higher filling rate is Eupen. French-speaking Brussels is not so bad. In addition, the appointment procedures are under way for four vacant places in the court, so that its framework will be complete. So I did not abdicate! I understand that the first president of the Court of Appeal has delegated three judges. It is his right under the Judicial Code. It was not even under this legislature that he was given this right. I would like to point out that the six vacant places are being allocated to the Court of Appeal. This will lead to a 95% occupancy rate for Francophone advisors in the coming months. Moreover, never forget that we have, you and I, in the Committee on Justice and in the plenary, generalised the chambers to one judge, only one adviser. It is therefore quite possible to establish additional rooms. After the delegation of the three judges, the court retains an actual occupation of 94.3 per cent. The court and the court thus have a rate of occupation of judges well above 90 per cent. I am trying to do everything possible to fill the Brussels Francophone and Dutch-speaking cadres. I hope that I have proved to you that I was not doing anything about the one-year deadline, nor was I able to fill the Brussels cadres at 100%.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. You don't abdicate, we'll see what happens at the end of the legislature. I did not wish to stop at Brussels alone. The replica will come from the field. The Mons-Tournai prosecutor decided to audit his prosecution. Why? Because, despite the lack of resources, he is asked to do more and better with less, but he has no framework. Usually, he had been asking for additional executives for five or six years, but he realizes that this is no longer possible. Today, he will audit his prosecutor's office to verify that all the people in his district are still on an equal footing despite the cuts in staff and the inability he encounters to fulfil some of his tasks. He wishes to obtain from this audit tricks and strings that could be generalized to all sections of his court and not only to the sections of the police court, to which the audit will apply. Minister, if we are here, the situation is serious! You should convince your government partners to fill out the executives and not always stay on this purely budget line, which wants to fill the executives only at 90%, because taking into account the sick staff, you fall very quickly to 80 or 85%.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u36	Mr President, Minister, 3,500 workers would be deceived, blurred, penalized by your royal decree of 17 January. The unions denounced him yesterday. These workers will lose several hundred euros of pension due to this order and your retroactive law. Workers, who have decided to set up their end of their careers to reach the statutory pension age in better conditions, now see the rules change along the way without being able to reverse their decision. In the debate on your bill last December, like Karin Temmerman, I drew your attention to our fears that workers might be penalized. With aplomb, you said that would not be the case. As we were not convinced, we voted against it. If the information of the trade unions is correct, it is not worthy of the workers concerned or of the parliamentarians. Minister, do you confirm this assimilation on the basis of minimum rights? Do you confirm the impact on the future pension of these workers? Will you correct this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u37	Minister, I'm going to offer you a two-year flashback. Consider an ordinary worker we will call Daniel. The latter is 55 years old and, as he has worked hard, he wants to move on to 4/5th. He chose him because he was guaranteed that his part-time work would be considered work and that he would not have a loss of pension. On 17 January 2017, he discovered that a royal decree retroactively returned to this rule. Minister, this is very surprising because you yourself, in Bill No. 2142 of November 8, 2016, you say that: "The principles regarding assimilation are not affected by the bill." You repeat it three times in committee. Apparently, there is now an impact. It is triple unwarranted because retroactivity returns to your word. This is legally prohibited. The second reason is that you make people work longer. In addition, you prevent them from taking part time, which would be used to blow and prepare for their retirement. Finally, the amount allocated will decrease. According to the trade unions, the amount lost for an average wage will be between 260 and 477 euros per year for the rest of the worker's life. Minister, first of all, why did you say that this measure would have no consequences, when it happens to have consequences? Second, do you confirm the amounts announced by the unions? Thirdly, how do you justify this retroactivity in legal and social terms, which shows that you are eating your word? Fourthly, why do you come with this antisocial measure now and why didn't you present it two years ago? Is it incompetence or does it reflect a will to harm? I rule out the second possibility. But what is it about in this case? Finally, Minister, when are you going to stop attacking pensions and retirees?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u38	Mr President, Minister, one of the first decisions you have taken as a minister is to raise the retirement age to 67 years. However, in your election programme, as well as in that of all your colleagues from the majority, you said that you would not do so. That makes sense, because it is not by raising the retirement age that people will also work longer. To work longer, one has to have a number of stimuli. It is not by raising the retirement age that this prevents, for example, people from becoming ill or becoming victims of reorganization and unemployment, or from being able to cope with and become ill. Minister, instead of encouraging people to work longer, you are doing the opposite. First, you abolished the pension bonus. Thus, in the future, people will have to work longer for less pensions, understand who can understand. Now you'll be moaning at the runways, too. Colleagues have already pointed this out. When you presented the draft law, you said that the principles of equality are not affected by this bill. Mr Daerden has already referred to it. We didn't really believe it. We have asked you very clearly when discussing the draft law. Everyone will remember, including the chairman, whether you are sure that the similarities will remain for the current and future runways, so that people who have a runway will have the same pension in the future. You have replied in the affirmative twice. You said there would be no impact, which would also be normal. If you want to encourage people to work longer, the runways are one of the possible options. It would be absurd to abolish them. Turns out this did happen, with a royal decision. How do you rhyme making runways more difficult with stimulating longer working? How will you do that? This is a real breach of contract. People have entered the system with the option that they would have the same pension. If you don't maintain this system, it's a breach of contract. In what way will you correct this breach of contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u39	Mr President, Minister, I had already put my question to you at the end of February, but then in committee and not here in plenary, because at the end of last year we voted in full confidence. In your explanatory statement, you assured us that it was an adaptation of the conceptual framework to bring the legislation into line with what has been renewed in the field of time-credit. At the same time, you said that you first thought that the law should not be amended. You wanted to leave it as it was at first, but apparently an adjustment was necessary. For these reasons, we have adopted this legislation in full confidence. At that time, at the request of several fellow Members, you also assured us that nothing would change for those who decided to get into an airstrip. Also not for those who entered this system in January or February 2015, from the age of 55. At that time, Minister, you assured us that nothing would change for those who decided to get on a runway. The persons concerned have, of course, asked about the consequences for their pension. They were then mentioned an amount and now it would appear that this amount is not guaranteed. The decision taken at that time now appears to be based on incorrect information because adjustments have been made retroactively. Minister, this makes trust in the proposed rules very difficult. You assured us, Minister, that there would be no retroactive effect. I can also quote from the report, which shows that the actual situation of those concerned would not change. I come to my questions. Is this information correct? If so, when do you intend to submit a new bill to correct this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have obviously taken note of the trade unions' threat of bringing an action before the Council of State. However, I confirm to you that the adaptations made to the regulations do not in any way constitute a reform of assimilations. There is no reform of similar periods in the text on time credit. As I have already mentioned on many occasions, this is only a technical alignment of pension regulations with that of the ONEM. Persons under the age of 60 with a career of 35 years may withdraw an end-of-life credit. The general rule states that this period shall be treated as equivalent on the basis of the minimum annual duty. That's the law. The current legislation makes it clear that, in periods of interruption, at the end of a career, assimilation takes place on the real minimum right. That's the law. Until 2015, we had the possibility to assimilate, not the totality, but 312 days of this credit-time for pension, calculated on the basis of the last salary, and not on the basis of the minimum entitlement. Before 2015, before the Peeters Act abolished it, an unmotivated time credit was possible in terms of allocation. Unmotivated time credit was, in fact, treated on the basis of the last salary. In so far as the worker had not been exhausted, the rules allowed for this more favourable assimilation – this was an exception – up to the remaining period of the unmotivated time credit. The non-motivated time credit allowance no longer exists since 1 January 2015. As the interruption benefits granted for the unmotivated time loan were abolished in 2015, this exception automatically lapses for the pension calculation. Adjustments to the pension rules were in fact introduced retroactively to 1 January 2015, i.e. at the time of the entry into force of the new ONEM legislation on end-of-career credit. These adaptations were obviously essential, given that since 1 January 2015, there has been no legal basis for maintaining an assimilation linked to the non-motivated time credit scheme since it no longer exists. We cannot, of course, continue to assimilate on the basis of an exception that has been removed. It is therefore a technical alignment of pension legislation with the legislation of the ONEM, but the princeps is obviously the legislation of the ONEM. To claim otherwise is not correct from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. You confirm and speak of "a simple technical adjustment because of my colleague Peeters". Do you think this will reassure the workers who will lose several hundred euros? I'm not convinced. Recognize your responsibility and assume your choices: punish workers, encourage the constraint of incentives to work longer and all for budgetary reasons! Stop hiding the truth and fooling citizens and parliamentarians! Even those of the majority lose confidence!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u42	Minister, basically, "It's not me, it's Minister Peeters!" It is this government that is responsible and the consequence will be that pensioners will have a lower pension in the future, because of Minister Peeters and because of your royal order! You didn't explain why the royal decree was retroactive? It's apparently due to incompetence. Why act today and not two years ago? You lied because you said there would be no impact. There will be one and, finally, pensioners are the victims of this policy. I will not mention all the other measures you have taken against pensioners because I have only one minute! We are in a country with the lowest pensions in Western Europe, where we are quickly below the poverty line. Minister of Pensions, you are a builder of poverty!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I am very surprised and very shocked. If you belong to another party, I would say that this is really a trick. We're talking about underhanded policy here. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain my position. The members of the CD&V Group will confirm my words. We have asked for this on a number of occasions during the discussion of the draft law in question. In a second round, Minister, I have literally asked you to do the following. It is stated in the report: Mrs Temmerman wonders whether, as a result, the workers who have opted for a runway are being treated equally. Your answer to that was no. Afterwards, a technical explanation shows that one has disappeared and therefore no longer needs to be compared. Consequently, a different kind of law must be applied and it is now apparent that that period is affected. Minister, that is unworthy of a government. If you want to do that, you have to admit it openly. I'm counting on the opposition in your majority to rectify this injustice and this sneaky shit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u44	Mr President, Minister, I too have read the report explicitly and I have found the same words. However, for those who take a runway at the time, nothing is reduced and there is no problem, or it will be reduced and there is a problem. In that case, at the time of the amendment, you should have given a very clear signal that those concerned would get less and that there was no equivalence for the famous 312 days. Two years later, however, when you come to tell us that there is no equivalence for the 312 days, it is two years too late. That is the difficulty facing those concerned, namely that it was not clear to them at the time when they took the decision. Therefore, Minister, it is important that transitional measures are in place for those affected by an existing regime. Minister, if the trade unions effectively decide to examine the dossier further, they may be able to clarify the story. However, if the rights of the workers concerned have been effectively violated, we must remedy this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u45	Before I say that I have been a father for ten months; I don't know where that story comes from. Minister, I have a question about the pension split, which is once again a topical issue. In fact, we had an interesting hearing last week with the President and the members of the Academic Council. As long ago as 2008, my colleague Annemie Turtelboom tabled a bill to spread pension rights equally between both partners. I think this makes sense, because the current pension system is based on the fact that one couple's partner worked and couples stayed together forever. In the meantime, however, the times have changed, ladies and gentlemen. As a result, in the case of divorce today, the non-working partner loses pension rights or may not even have pension rights at all. That needs remediation. If someone hasn't worked, it doesn't mean that the person hasn't done anything. That person may have taken care of the children or promoted the development of the other partner's career. That is why I believe that a pension split is a good idea, which certainly needs to be examined. There are two important questions here. First of all, is the pension split voluntary or do we make the pension split compulsory? Our party obviously prefers free choice. If people choose to marry or live together, they can at that time also indicate whether or not they opt for a pension split, as they must also indicate whether or not they choose to separate goods. The second question is whether the pension split applies to the future or also to the past. We ask, of course, that the rights that have been built up should also be taken into account, so that partners do not and do not see the route changed plans. Mr Minister, the questions are very clear. The pension split is in the government agreement and you'd investigate it. In the meantime, we're two and a half years later. Has there been a start on the investigation? Do you have any insight into the modalities of the pension split system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u46	Thank you for the question concerning the division of pension rights for spouses and legal residents. The introduction of the pension split was registered in the government agreement. I quote: "In particular, the government will examine how a pension split of the statutory and supplementary pension can be applied to married and legally cohabiting couples." The proposal will be examined in the light of the debate on the modernisation of the family dimension, which will take place in the National Pension Committee on Monday 13 March. Indeed, it is planned that the Chair of the Academic Council will then submit to the members of the National Pension Committee the proposals made in this respect by the Pension Reform Committee 2020-2040. The debate between the members of the National Pension Committee will then begin. It will be only after the end of that debate, in the course of 2017, that the government will define the measures to be taken to modernise the family dimension of our pension system, in particular the modalities of the pension split between married and legally resident people. The question of split cannot be considered separately from the abolition of the family rate, which was also agreed in the coalition agreement. In short, it is a reform which will require broad social dialogue and extensive preparatory work. For example, it will be necessary to examine how the other European countries have modernised the family dimension of the pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true that decisions have already been taken in a number of other European countries, including the Netherlands and Germany. This was referred to earlier this week by Professor Stevens, who came to the committee. I have noted that the debate on the family dimension will start next Monday at the Academic Council and that you intend to take initiatives on this matter by the end of 2017. I also note that this is linked to the notion of family pension, which is still contained in our legislation. In any case, you can count on our support to bring the reform to a successful conclusion and to finally turn the debate on it into action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u48	Madam Secretary, a home nurse will receive €4.50 today to flush the heparin lock off a gate catheter. That's an access route for medication and, for example, for chemo. By way of comparison, a hospital setting is provided for this in EUR 30 and I am not talking about the additional daily price, which is on average several hundred euros. If we were to focus more on home care, we would be able to save a few hundred euros per patient per day and raise the fees for home care with the same budgets. In the hospital sector, too, the conditions for nurses are appalling. What the government finances is on average one nurse per thirteen patients. This means that we are in the same regions as countries like Greece and Poland. In countries that do much better, such as the Scandinavian countries or the United States, the fee is double. One nurse every five patients is paid for there. The recent reports that the number of nurses is inadequate and the influx on the ground does not cover demand are therefore not surprising. The influx has indeed increased slightly, and that is a bright point, but we see that the turn-over in nurses today is too high, just because of the difficult conditions in which they work. I have already put this question to you. At that time, you said that, as part of the reform of hospital funding, for example, you were prepared to review the standard for the best-affining of care staff in the institutions. You were also aware of the difficult conditions in which home nurses, for example, work today. Where do you stand with that? When can nurses expect improvement in the field?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u49	Mrs Van Camp, this is not the first time you have raised this issue. You know that we have one starting point in the reforms: how can we keep the patient's quality of care as good and accessible as possible? Another starting point is also to improve the work-life balance that is also stated in the government agreement of nurses, but also of other care actors. For the reform of the hospital landscape we work through an optimization. This means that we encourage more day-to-day hospitalization, but also more home care or outpatient care. The reduction in the length of stay in the hospital can also reduce the number of hospital beds. Today pilot projects have been developed for home care, home chemotherapy, intravenous antibiotics and so on, in collaboration with thirty-five hospitals and many home medical services. That is an important step in the right direction. Furthermore, by creating networks between hospitals, resources will be released. Those resources can indeed be used differently. You talked about the basic standard for the bestaffing. Well, through various social agreements in recent years and through additional funds, such as the social Maribel, the bestaffining has already improved in recent years. That is also what we are going to do. With regard to the number of nurses on a hospital bed, I don't know how you got your calculation. This number is difficult to derive from the financing of the B2 of the Financial Resources Budget. This includes not only the care staff, but also the middle management, including other staff, and this is difficult to break up. We will, of course, also unravel the Budget of Financial Resources. Finally, you mentioned a subject which will be discussed next week in the committee meeting, in particular the Royal Decree of 1978, which defines the role and tasks of all health care professionals, including the tasks of health care professionals and nurses. We would like to examine how healthcare professionals and nurses can delegate the tasks to each other, so that the working conditions for nurses can be improved, taking into account, of course, the quality of care for the patient. Mrs Van Camp, you are a member of the Health Committee and you know that we are working on this with man and power.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u50	Mr President, Minister, I am delighted to hear you say that. As far as we are concerned, these reforms can certainly be speeded up. You can count on our support for this. It is indeed those reforms that we need to free up funds to invest in people affected by illness, but also in our care staff. I am pleased that you acknowledge the difficult conditions in which they work today and that you want to commit yourself to improving them. You can count on our group in committee to take this forward. It is not just the ad hoc solutions that we are providing to you and which are now being worked on, especially in the recent budgetary exercise, which are important. If we look at all the objective studies, such as the recent OECD report or the European Health Index, they are always praised for our health care, but there is one point in which we are really lagging behind, and that is the performance of our health care. Much care can be given to the same or even to a better quality for less. This is a saving that we support, so that we can free up funds to invest in sick people and in healthcare staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u51	Minister, on April 3, 2016, a consortium of international journalists, particularly Europeans, broke out the Panama Papers scandal. Today, moreover, it is announced that the justice system is taking this matter even more seriously. On 1 July 2016, the programme law introduced a strengthening of the criteria that define the countries concerned by Belgium as tax havens. It has also extended several aspects of the regulations under which companies are required to report annually all payments made directly or indirectly to persons established in those paradises. The concept of a person has also been expanded by the programme law. Finally, the programme law provided that a royal decree would subsequently list countries falling within the scope of the new strengthened criteria. Currently, only 30 countries are on the list. Some states considered non-cooperative by the OECD should be added, but also other states which, under the new criteria, should be treated as tax havens. Singapore, Hong Kong and Taiwan are particularly important. Nine months later, still no royal decree and several jurists moved, because due to the new legislation, the declaration to be made may relate to the year 2016, when the royal decree would be published before the date of delivery of the declarations. Legal certainty requires that your government, Mr. Minister, finally decide on the adoption of this royal decree. However, according to the information you have given in committee, you would be waiting for the European Commission to draw up the list of tax havens. However, it is well known that this subject is the subject of intense controversy within the European Commission, perhaps also within the Council of Finance Ministers, and that the Commission will not be able to reach a conclusion until the end of this year, even though there are already useful lists, such as the Moscovici list. My question is simple. In what period of time will you implement the 2016 program law by a royal decree that we have been waiting for for nine months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u52	Minister, when you proposed, in July 2016, to expand corporate reporting requirements for payments to tax havens, we supported your proposal, as we support any measure that tends to strengthen tax justice. Unfortunately, the implementation of this excellent measure is conditional on the adoption by the government of a royal decree setting out the list of tax havens. Today, a company that makes a payment to Hong Kong, to Singapore, to the State of Delaware in the United States, to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, is not subject to this obligation, since you have not rushed to implement this good intention. Minister, are there any diplomatic problems? Are you sensitive to certain pressures from companies or economic actors? Is the fight against major tax fraud just an intention that is not actually true? However, nine months between the adoption of a law and its implementation, it is far too long in our view, from the point of view of legal certainty and administrative comfort for the companies concerned, but above all in relation to the objective of combating major tax fraud, which costs us billions of euros every year. If you correctly implement the measures you have decided, you will be able to avoid other painful measures for our citizens, either savings or new taxes. Minister, we ask you: implement this principle and adopt this royal decree!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u53	Mr Maingain, Mr Gilkinet, ladies and gentlemen, the list to which you referred is the list of States without taxation or with too little taxation. In the meantime, the European Commission has initiated an exercise to establish a common list of tax havens, in consultation with the Member States. At European level, a working group is currently discussing possible sanctions for countries on the European Union's famous blacklist. Belgium participates constructively in this negotiation. The sanctions we are applying today at national level for tax havens have been presented in this working group and have been well received by the other Member States. In this case, it is the total rejection of the costs or the absence of an exemption for the receipt of insufficiently taxed dividends. We will therefore play a leading role at that level as well. Belgium applies, for example, a stricter minimum tax requirement of 10 % and 15 %, whereas at European level, a tax rate of 0 % is currently used. We therefore once again set a good example in the fight against tax evasion. Finally, I think it is wise to wait for the results of this European exercise before asking my administration to draw up a new list. The results of the European Commission are certainly expected before the end of the year. I do not think I should go into the details of all the measures that have been taken in the fight against fraud in the Panama Papers briefstream and other measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u54	Mr Minister, Belgium does not give any examples at the moment. It has, in fact, interesting legislation, but it is not enforced since the implementing order is not adopted. To say that we are exemplary, when we do not apply the legislation, is to really make fun of the world. In short, what bothers you is that our legislation, in fact, is quite binding. You don't want to apply it. So you're hiding behind the European Commission and the European working groups so that you don't move forward. But you have all the instruments. Just the work done by comparing the lists of states considered to be tax suspects is one! These lists exist. All Member States have submitted their lists and convergence criteria can already be adopted. Take back the convergence criteria that have already been discussed in the European Working Group and apply them without delay! You will thus do even more useful pioneering work. Since you want to pioneer, do it completely and to the end!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u55	Mr Minister, the European Commission and Europe have a good back in this case. Belgium should set an example by effectively adopting this list, even if it is subsequently corrected in the light of a European agreement. Today, as I said, transfers to Singapore, to Hong Kong, to Delaware – which are clearly states that do not apply sufficient taxation, which are part of the logic of tax dumping and therefore of tax evasion and tax evasion – must not be declared by Belgian companies, despite the law. Minister, why do you hesitate in front of the obstacle? Why, in the fight against tax fraud, do you keep to the words and never take action? Minister, I ask you and the other members of the government, who are also responsible under this Order, to take this decision without delay and to establish a new list of tax havens and countries in relation to which a declaration must be made by companies, or even by private individuals tomorrow. It is in this way that you will effectively fight against the big tax fraud!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u56	Mr Minister, I will get straight to the point. There are two points in this file that I do not understand. Firstly, there is great consensus on this dossier. The trade unions agree on the need to reform and simplify corporate taxation, the employers agree on it, the political parties in this hemisphere, from left to right, agree on it. Despite this broad support, the government is not going to succeed in bringing this dossier to a successful conclusion. However, there is a problem, in particular that you and others in the government are stubbornly refusing to include an added value tax on shares. I don't understand. Almost all OECD countries today have some form of share added-value tax. Thirty years ago, Ronald Reagan, not really a socialist, introduced an added value tax on shares in the United States, just to reduce company rates. Yet, with others in the government, you continue to oppose it. Why do you do that if you can reform corporate tax? The second thing I don't understand is a penny issue. I remember that at some point you asked the Supreme Court of Finance for an opinion. You leaked that to the press. You said that story was budgetaryly neutral. The Prime Minister came here to say that he had to check that first at the Supreme Court of Finance, the Planning Bureau and the National Bank. He's been in touch with that. Today I read two things. Your spokesman says that everything is fine, that all scenarios are well drawn out and under control. At the same time, the Prime Minister must go again to the National Bank and the Planning Bureau to have that calculated. What's the big deal? Are the cents of your plan okay? I have the feeling that there is a great deal of doubt about this in your government, and I would like to hear it from you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u57	Mr Vanvelthoven, I am pleased with your sudden interest in corporate tax. I'd almost dare say it's touching me. It's been different once. That attention is particularly justified. I believe that everyone is convinced that the reform of corporate taxation is insisting. There are two main reasons for this. Firstly, the situation of our SMEs. They are generally faced with a relatively high nominal rate. Moreover, they do not have the instruments or, if you like, the know-how to lower that rate. Secondly, we note that there is a lot of movement at international level. Many countries are working on their corporate tax, especially towards a lower nominal rate. The analysis is clear. We worked on that for a year. After all, it was about a year ago that the mandate was given to see what and how this corporate tax could be worked on. The scenarios are ready, worked out and calculated. That's where the work is done. It is now up to the full government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, to further discuss and finalise these proposals in decision-making. As far as I'm concerned, this should be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u58	Mr Minister, we have now, of course, become much wiser. You've been working on it for a year. Last summer you said that everything was ready and that it could be decided. It wasn't ready. You hadn't even spoken to other members of your government at that time. That's group work, government work, Minister. Such matters must be checked out within the government. It is not right that we are now suddenly interested in corporate taxation. We have been saying for a long time that this corporate tax needs to be reformed urgently. Unfortunately, because you have dealt with this in the wrong way and you have stubbornly refused an added value tax on shares, there is still no reform of corporate tax. For SMEs, the message is clear. This year the reform will not come because of this government's messing-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u59	Mr. President, Minister, the press yesterday revealed on the occasion of International Women's Rights Day that our country ranked sixth in the Mastercard Index of Women Entrepreneurs. This result is all the more encouraging because, at European level, our country is ranked second after Sweden. This study looked at the availability of conditions in 54 countries. She pointed out that women's entrepreneurship was still often hampered, on the one hand, by cultural prejudices and, on the other hand, by weak prospects for career development. However, the survey highlights the fact that, if conditions are better for us than in most other countries, the rate of female entrepreneurship could still change, increase. Minister, you made this observation in September 2015 and you announced that the promotion of women's entrepreneurship is one of your priorities for this legislature. After consultation with the representative organisations, you announced a four-pronged plan to promote women's entrepreneurship in order to remove a number of obstacles that women still too often face when they want to undertake: setting up a women's entrepreneurial barometer, strengthening social status, access to finance, awareness raising, training and education for the youngest women and women starting self-employment. Some measures have already been implemented. Last year, we voted to exempt the payment of social security contributions with the maintenance of entitlements for the quarter following delivery. The government has therefore moved forward. Minister, what lessons do you learn from this investigation? What are the next steps in your women's entrepreneurship support plan announced in 2015? Can you tell us about his progress? In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that I am not a pure feminist. However, I believe it is important to have women in business. In my view, it is also important to take stock of this issue one day after the observance of International Women's Rights Day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to discuss with you the situation with regard to female entrepreneurship. A number of decisions have indeed been taken, a number of developments have been supported and noted. But, of course, there is still a long way to go. I would like to give you a few figures to shed some light on the current situation. We have 1,050,000 self-employed people in our country, of whom only 34.5 per cent are women, 363,150 are self-employed. The observation of the SME barometer shows that just over 51% of independent women report a net annual income of less than €7,500, with 36.8% on the male side. When women, who are responsible for SMEs or independents, apply for credit, 88% of them are in favour, while 92% of their male colleagues are satisfied. So there is still a way to go. In order to make progress on the issue, a series of measures can be taken. First, decisions concerning the reconciliation of work and family life could be adopted, concerning the status of close caregiver, to reconcile mother's life with independent working life. Secondly, securing entrepreneurial activity seems essential to me. The fundamental bridge right would allow everyone to have a possibility of reversing, if necessary. Thirdly, new forms of organisation, such as the grouping of employers, are used and interesting. Finally, the development of attitudes remains the most important point, as I say before my very new colleague Mrs Demir. In this regard, we must, together, move a number of lines of analysis, beliefs and mentalities. In this sense, I am making a call for projects to support all organizations that promote women's entrepreneurship and its support as their major objective. Thank you for your commitment to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u61	Minister, you're talking about mobilization. I think we're mobilized. Some decisions have already been taken. A long way has already been travelled, but there is still a lot of work to be done. The promotion of female entrepreneurship with respect for the balance between family and working life is obviously a priority for my group. Similarly, there is a need for mentalities to change. I am therefore pleased that you have continued in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u62	Madam Secretary of State, I would first like to congratulate you on your appointment. That's worth a round of applause. I am pleased that a young woman with also a migration roots who gets a position in a so far fairly white male government. I think we are making progress in this area. I thought the first thing you said was sensible. You said you'd take 20 days to get involved. I thought that was a good idea. However, after twenty hours it was already wrongu. You seem to have found it necessary to attack with manifest falsehoods a publicly independent institution that fights discrimination and promotes equal opportunities. You did that with half truths and whole lies. I'll give you an anthology of that. You said that most of the complaints that Unia receives are about racial discrimination and that you do not hear Unia at all about age discrimination. The first figures of 2016 show that the age discrimination files are increasing most. This has also been a priority for Unia for a long time. I think you also know very well that she considers the fight against age discrimination to be very important. That's lie number one. According to you, Unia would have been obsessed with the black-and-white discussion. That may be a rookie mistake to confuse the Minority Forum with Unia, but that's a lie number two. You also say that 80% of the complaints received by Unia come from Wallonia. The figures show that 60% of those who register with Unia are Dutch speaking compared with 39% of those who speak French. Oops, a mistake. That's lie number three. That is not really the best start for a Secretary of State, especially since by the end of 2016 your colleague and N-VA Minister Homans Unia had given a good report. Despite all the figures, despite this positive evaluation, you feel that Unia is not working properly. I think we can certainly have a debate on this. That seems to me to be a very interesting debate, which must be held, but you are going to go ahead again and you are going to say that what does not work, you will simply split up. That's the miracle solution, vintage the N-VA. My question is simple. Does the government support your impulsive ruling? Is splitting Unia a government position or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u63	Madam Secretary of State, in my turn I congratulate you on your appointment. I also congratulate you, because you have already proved that you are more communicative than your predecessor. At the time when your party's mandatars were caught massively on the better grating techniques, you have certainly proved that your party can also excel in the better distraction techniques. After all, with your so-called attack on Unia, you have certainly successfully distracted the attention of the sensitive mandate issues. Your criticism of Unia was justified. We would, however, almost forget that you and your entire group, together with you, have created this institution in the hemisphere not so long ago. You agreed in 2013 that two new redundant centres were made out of one redundant centre. At that time you also approved the new subsidy crane, which was opened up. After 6.2 million euros of federal funding, this approval added a further 1.6 million euros of grants from Flanders. Perhaps today, in the context of the gray culture and transparency, you can clarify how much taxpayers' money goes into the salaries of the directors of both institutions. I'm curious to hear that answer. Madam Secretary of State, we and many of us do not want taxpayers' money for an institution that deals with Jean-Marie Pfaff by making the mud out of some lame holiday joke and at the same time minimizes the advancing salafism. We do not want taxpayers' money for an institution which considers it important to investigate the racism of banning long-term unemployment while normalising it separately for Muslim women. We do not want taxpayers' money for an institution that classes a ship as etnocentric, because it refuses to marry a couple that refuses to shake his hand, while the same institution trivializes the anti-Semitic Muslim slogans. Madam Secretary of State, such an unbelievable institution does not need taxpayers' money. All she needs is the abolition. What's your future plan for Unia? What will you do about it? Will you take action and turn off the subsidy tap?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u64	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I too congratulate you, since you have just been appointed. Let us be interested in your first statements because just arrived, just after you were sworn in, you decided to make incendiary statements about the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities, focusing everything on Father Fouettard and manipulating the numbers coarsely. It's all over! We can question your reasons. In my view, one of them might well be the fact that, in essence, it was the perfect opportunity to make a media counterfire following the Bracke case. Excuse me, Mr. President! And it was obviously an opportunity to divert the attention of the media. Another reason is quite possible. It is that, in the background, Unia is an inter-federal center. So it's a unitary center. What better way, then, when you know the N-VA, than to take advantage of the opportunity to make a beautiful community charge with a magnificently orchestrated group shot in the field of communication, not to mention the relay and the overbidding on the same occasion of your N-VA colleagues? Madam Secretary of State, let me tell you that, for an entry into the matter, it is not serious. Either we know his numbers or we keep quiet. It's not glorious either. You'd better keep quiet or study your files. You are Secretary of State; you are no longer a Member of Parliament. You are still from the N-VA, but as Secretary of State, you speak on behalf of the government. But the least we can say is that your colleagues from other government parties have not heard them. Madam Secretary of State, have you spoken on behalf of the government? What you said, did you say on behalf of the government? What is the government's position on the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u65	Madam Secretary of State, I was wondering what I was going to say to welcome you. This weekend, when you were asked to describe the opposition deputies, you called me "the worst of all." So, to please you, I will not be content with just one question; I will ask you two, to put you in the atmosphere of this Parliament. I didn't understand you coming out last week. You are Secretary of State for the Fight against Poverty and Equal Opportunities, thus against discrimination. It would have been expected that when you took office, you would speak out against poverty and discrimination. You're paid for it! What was your first statement? It wasn't about the fight against discrimination or poverty. Your first statement in the press was an attack on Unia, with many wrong numbers. You said that 80% of the complaints came from Wallonia. That was another N-VA vision. However, the telephone exchange is located in Brussels and in fact all these calls do not come from Wallonia. Then you came up with something else. Unia was just doing the black-and-white stuff. Unia wasn't doing that. Then the problem was that Unia is only dealing with racism. Last year, however, there were 126 % more complaints about age issues. Madam Secretary of State, I'm asking you the question. Is it not your problem that Unia also deals with racism? Tell me if it bothers you that an inter-federal centre is analyzing a problem of racism! When a young man, Kerim, found death in Turkey as a result of an attack, hundreds of hate messages followed and racist reactions to the social networks. Wouldn't racism affect someone's search for a job? Wouldn't racism in our society affect someone's search for a home? Madam Secretary of State, please, of course there is racism. You are paid to support the fight against discrimination. With the N-VA it is always easy. If there are problems with the N-VA, if there is bickering in the N-VA, if it turns out that there is a gray culture at the N-VA. not only the chairman, but also the ships are only engaged in money, money, money, money, money, then N-VA is thinking about shifting attention again. Where is the best way to do that? This is the case with migrants in Belgium, who are once again being bashed. Dear N-VAS, you are always working on a division and control policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u66	Mr Hedebouw, you must now ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u67	Mr President, I will make my questions very clear. Madam Secretary of State, you said that Unia should be split. My first question is whether that is a government position or whether it is only the N-VA. Secondly, you put forward different figures last weekend. Can you confirm here that all the figures you have quoted in connection with Unia are simply wrong? Thirdly, do you apologize to Unia?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to express my satisfaction at the fact that we can finally have a debate here on the role of Unia. For me, discrimination and its fight are important. When I first became Secretary of State, I received a telephone call from a journalist on Friday afternoon, who asked me what I thought of Unia. I replied to that, Mr President, you can verify that I was concerned, firstly, and that, secondly, Unia had at least one perception problem. That's what I said. I also said that Unia is the center of polarization, which is in stark contrast to what Unia itself claims. In his own words, Unia wants to connect people. That new name, Unia, also refers to that. I also support this ambition. I also share that ambition to connect. But I can't look away from what's actually happening, can I? I would like to give some very clear examples. There's an elephant in the room that some people don't want to see. If an important part of our community formally renounces its trust in Unia, if the Forum of Jewish Organisations is wondering if there is any point in making a complaint, isn't that a problem, ladies and gentlemen? If Unia on Black Piet concludes that the children's party is not contrary to the anti-racism law, but is indeed racist, isn't that a problem? If Unia blames a ship from the city of Brussels, especially Alain Courtois, for being an etnocentrist and actively seeking out the press with an opinion, just to safeguard the rights of extremists, is there no problem? I also refer to the study by Indiville, ordered and paid for by Unia herself. I brought them with me, even though I had to look for them for a long time. (Protests from Mrs Lalieux) Mrs. Lalieux, you don't have to hunt yourself down. I want to solve the problems! Easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u69	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u70	If from a study of Indiville, ordered and paid by Unia herself, I have them here with me, it turns out that 74 percent of the population has no idea who to contact with complaints about discrimination, while the director continues to claim that she is doing well, is there no problem? May I remind everyone here in the Chamber that the roots of Unia go back to 1993. The conclusion of the same study is that I simply quote them: "The Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre is initially seen as an institution that deals with the tension field indigenous and ethnicity and does not always act as neutral, impartial or independent. This reflects negatively on the image of the centre and causes the other tasks of the centre to disappear in the background and the indigenous population to feel less likely to turn to the centre. That's the conclusion of the study that Unia ordered himself from the Indiville agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u71	Mr Frédéric, we always apply the same principle, that is, two minutes for one question and two minutes for the answer! There are four questions attached, that is eight minutes in total! Final point!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u72	Mr Frédéric and the PS, you may not be interested in the debate, but I do. Several Members of this House have asked questions, and as the competent Secretary of State, I would like precise answers to those questions. [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u73	Mrs Demir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u74	So I stand by my statement that Unia has at least one perception problem and that we have to work on it. You ask me where I get that, Mrs Willaert. It's very simple. I'll get that from the study Unia ordered himself. The study also indicates that 51% of respondents feel that the Inter-federal Centre for Equal Opportunities exists primarily to help allochtonians. In addition, 51 per cent of people believe that discrimination against certain population groups is considered to be more serious than discrimination against other groups. That's what the study shows. That's what the study says, Mrs. Fonck. That's not from me. As I just said, it was the institution itself that commissioned the study. I want to talk to all the relevant actors in my policy area. There are several, of which Unia is one. As I said earlier, I will do this and I will go in consultation with Unia, but then when the peace has returned. Racism and the fight against discrimination are too important to do so now. With regard to the possible split, I can be very brief. I didn't respond to that myself. I think it was Matthias Storme from the board who responded. We have signed a cooperation agreement with Unia, which will only end in 2019. Finally, Mrs Willaert, Mr Hedebouw, I do not accept the criticism of these lies. I will also make it clear that these were not false claims. Patrick Charlier, co-director of Unia, spoke recently, on 3 February 2017, about the racist nature of Zwarte Piet in a panel discussion by BOZAR, entitled "Black Face in Belgium." Mrs Willaert, with regard to complaints based on age discrimination, I have based myself on the 2015 annual report. The 2015 Annual Report is available, not yet in 2016. On his own website, Unia declares that she will not report the full and final figures until June. I hope you understand that I have based myself on the final figures of 2015. As far as 80% is concerned, Mr Hedebouw, I also got that from the annual report, on page 27. Unia itself says that there is a whole registration system behind this and I would therefore like Unia to record this very transparently in the annual report, so that this is clear to everyone. So far, my answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u75	Madam Secretary of State, saying that you want to have the debate when the calm returns is really punishment, especially after you yourself have spread half-truths and complete lies in the media. Besides, you're gonna put another shovel on this one. In addition, you do not want to come to the committee until after Easter to explain your policy, but in the meantime you do not shy away from statements in the media at all. That makes it very difficult to hold a serene debate. What you should be dealing with is, for example, the Federal Public Service for Persons with Disabilities, where no one has been answering the phone for weeks, or your own government, which over and over takes socio-economic measures that affect women much harder than men. I suggest that you take a real, decent gender test, because it is an empty box until today. Perhaps you should also consider raising the lowest benefits up to the poverty line. There's plenty of work on the shelf. We want results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u76	(...) especially don't deal with Unia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u77	Above all, the people you are the Secretary of State want results. They do not expect a Secretary of State to be impulsive, but to be forceful. They expect someone who works instead of shooting blanks in the media. So I suggest that you implement the coalition agreement instead of making a vision paper on something that is not in the coalition agreement. I await your policy vision and your actions, not your gut feeling.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u78	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u79	Mr Willaert, I do not understand why you are so concerned and why the politically correct colleagues are so concerned, because the answer from the Secretary of State clearly shows that the barking N-VA dogs do not bite and that the thought police of Unia can sleep on her two ears. You do not intend to intervene, Madam Secretary of State. May I quote your party chairman on the center? I admit, the quote dates back a few years ago, when you were still in opposition. Then he said what we have been saying for years: "Scrapping because of total pointlessness and because the centre poses a permanent threat to the right to freedom of expression." That's absolutely right. Nothing has changed today. So I don't understand why you changed your mind. I understand your concern for genuine racism and discrimination, but we have an arsenal of legislation in this country. It is up to judges to decide. We do not need a subjective and expensive centre for this. Flanders is absolutely not waiting for that thought police. I would like to conclude, Mr President, with the words of President Truman: "In a free country we punish men for the crimes they commit, never for the opinions they hold." That's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u80	Madam Secretary of State, therefore, your only answer is to select a few examples from the files managed by Unia. Do you know that in 2016, more than 5,000 files and applications were submitted, a significant increase from 2015? It's easy to go and choose some - not quite at random, it's even extremely oriented - in order to launch a real campaign of denigration against Unia. Whether it is the sport of the N-VA, I already knew it, it does not surprise me. But basically, you're telling us that you're speaking on behalf of the government. That surprises me. Taping Unia and the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities has thus become the sport of the government! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u81	I suspended Mrs Fonck's speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u82	If you don't agree, wake up, the parties of the majority! And stop wanting to regionalize an inter-federal centre that works well! Stop leading a denigration campaign! [[Brouhahaha]] Equality of opportunity is a major issue. You, Madam Secretary of State, took you two weeks to wake up about people with disabilities! And today you are continuing this campaign of totally indecent denigration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u84	Madam Secretary of State, you say you want to have the discussion with Unia in complete calm. Are you serious? Do you really want a meeting? Last Friday, you told a journalist that 80% of the applications to Unia came from Wallonia and you complained about the black-and-white stuff. Is that your technique of dealing with calmness and consultation with a public service? What will it be if you get a little nervous? Then it's gonna be boom fries! If you want to discuss it with a public service, why don't you just call the director quietly and ask him to talk? However, you called the press and complained about "boom" the origin of 80 % of the reports and about "fries"! Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That's not how it works!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u85	Who's not calm around here now? [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u86	Ah, we don't like it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u87	We must conclude, Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u88	Mr President, what I want to say is serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u89	Mr Hedebouw, let me present something to you. You used most of your speaking time in this sitting to ask your question. You have no less rights than another Member of Parliament, but you have no more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u90	Mr President, I just wanted to talk about the diggers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u91	You have a few more seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u92	Madam Secretary of State, with N-VA you deliberately chose to provoke racism last weekend, because you know that the people of Flanders are tired of your gray politics. That's what we feel on all social networks. The N-VA has become a traditional party. Now you're trying to draw attention with a divide-and-control strategy. This will not work because, together, we will continue to fight the division and culture of greed, dear N-VA!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u93	Mr President, with your permission, I will try to keep it serene. First of all, I am particularly honoured that I, together with a number of fellow Members of this House, belong to the select circle that goes into history to ask the first topical question to the new Secretary of State. The first in a hopefully long career. I must say, ma'am, you had to fly in immediately. The serious IT problem at DG HAN began to manifest at the beginning of this year. You are faced with this immediately. It is an important problem because it threatens to delay the management and conduct of the processes, not least in paying the benefits of people with disabilities. However, it may also cause delays with regard to other benefits, such as the delivery of parking tickets. I heard you on the radio this morning. You said you think this is an important problem. You put the target group of people with disabilities forward in your future policy. That is a good thing. I also hear you say that you have taken concrete steps immediately. You have summoned the chairman of the FPS Social Security Office to work together on a journey towards a solution. That is also what my questions are about, Madam Secretary of State. Firstly, do you have any specific information on that route to a solution? Can we get a look at the timing yet? Secondly, have you or your administration been in contact with the provider of the IT platform? If so, what did this result in? Thirdly, it seems that the service is still not available by telephone today. In case of great uncertainty it is important that people can get information about their file. I think I can say that it is important to take steps very quickly in that yard too. I wonder which steps you want to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u94	Madam Secretary of State, we have been receiving disturbing reports for months about the malfunction of DG Persons with Disabilities. The health insurance funds have already raised the alarm, including the people themselves. It has also been in the newspapers several times. The service is very difficult to reach by telephone. In the middle of September, at nine months, there were one million unrequited calls from people who asked about their rights or wanted to apply for recognition or benefit. In September there were also problems with the online tool My Handicap. That is why, at the beginning of November, I interviewed your predecessor, Mrs Sleurs, on this issue and asked her to take urgent action. Four months ago, I mentioned this to Mrs Sleurs. However, today we see that the problems are far from being solved. On the contrary, the green line is no longer accessible at all. If you call it now, you will hear a tape saying that it is not possible at the moment to answer the questions by telephone through the transition to a new computer system. People are simply referred to the website to fill out a form there. Of course, the officials themselves are not satisfied either. They're suing the staff shortage. There's a protest today, also next week. They often also have duplicated work, because the poorly-functioning ICT system requires them to re-decode everything and introduce it manually. The ill-functioning ICT system has prevented decisions from being made through the system for two months now. This is, of course, unacceptable, especially since it concerns the weakest in our society. The weakest in our society, people with disabilities, remain in the cold, do not know what their rights are, therefore lose their benefits. Not only do they receive benefits, such as integration benefits or benefits for people with disabilities, but they do not receive derived benefits or discounts. Think, for example, of the increased family allowances that they do not receive if they do not have recognition. They also miss the social tariff for gas and electricity; there are problems with parking tickets. I come to my questions, Madam Secretary of State. First of all, what was done by your predecessor during those four months? I raised the matter four months ago. In the meantime, what happened to the problem? Secondly, the new ICT system is not working on any side. I'm glad you're going to fail the company. That is good, but what will you actually do to ensure that people do not miss out on their benefits and everything related to them, such as increased child benefit? How will you ensure that the service is accessible again? You announced a roadmap. What does that mean in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u95	Madam Secretary of State, congratulations on your appointment, too. I hope that you will deal with this in the future. I am referring to something to which Mrs Lanjri referred, namely the telephone permanence at DG Persons with Disabilities. Like my colleague, I raised this with your predecessor months ago. I also asked that question when discussing the policy paper. In the meantime, however, it has only effectively gotten worse. The phone isn't being answered at all anymore and people don't know what they're up to anymore. Besides, apparently that phone is being tampered with now. I refer to that famous computer system which apparently does not do what it should do. Meanwhile, the poignant story has also emerged of people who are entitled to an increased child benefit due to a disability. According to figures available to the Family Association, almost half of the applications are more than three months behind schedule, on average even half a year or more. Madam Secretary of State, for a service that works for the most wretched in our society, that is disastrous. It's mostly embarrassing, too. That is why the question of when will work on this inadequate functioning of the administration of DG Persons with Disabilities at last be addressed? What measures will you take to put an end to this distressing situation? What is the timing of things?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u96	Madam Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your new duties. I believe that courtesy invites me to do this, even though I am a little sorry about the previous debate. You have somewhat missed your entry into office. That said, congratulations! And at the same time, good luck, because you inherit from your predecessor a particularly meagre, empty, desolating, and even dramatic balance sheet for the most impoverished people. I am particularly interested in the debate we have had here on the fight against poverty. You also inherit a field of ruins. There's a lot of work to do. Secondly, Mr President, it is a bit of an anachronism, but I am told that the policy note of the new Secretary of State would only appear on 18 April, which seems a little late. This means that we are here with an operational issue, while we have not yet had the opportunity to discuss with you your options, your vision, your priorities, your choices. I think we should have done things the other way around. This is Parliament's calendar! This debate is different from the previous one. These are the weakest people, the disabled. There are two substantive issues in this sector, which we will discuss in a debate. Madam Secretary of State, do you or do you not have the will to reform the 30-year-old law of 1987, which is outdated and poses a lot of difficulties for the people concerned today? This is particularly the issue of administrative simplification, one of the cross-cutting issues of this necessary reform. We'll get back to it. Second question. It is your responsibility, beyond polemics, to ensure that the means of the Directorate-General for People with Disabilities are appropriate to the needs. There are linear savings, transfers to the Regions and an increasing number of application files. It is necessary to ensure, at your level, the adequacy of the means. As has been said, there is a problem today in the implementation of a computer program. The general management is out of breath. The computer program is blocked, there are no new encodings, there are no decisions. Persons with disabilities are awaiting the decisions and financial means that the law may grant them. We have to get out of this. The National High Council had alerted Ms. Sleurs, who did not take it into account, who did nothing. He's asking for a return to the old program. The TETRA programme now makes it possible to pay the allowances due. He asks if you and your administration are going to come back and test a new one. What initiatives have you taken or are you going to take? Are you going to have the old program reinstated? Do you intend to provide this administration with adequate means to deal with cases of persons with disabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u97	Madam Secretary of State, it has been a year and a half, but more repeatedly, since September, that colleagues and I have been asking questions and asking the Secretary of State in charge of matters relating to persons with disabilities. I am, of course, horrified by the way these policies have been carried out. At the same time, the Secretary of State was systematically supported by the majority, when she came to present her policy note, her 2017 budget. And every time there were inquiries and motions, you voted the motion outright. There is therefore a political co-responsibility of the majority and the government in the absence of answers to these old and persistent problems. I'm going to get out of the news now. I hope you will agree to come and present your note in committee before the Easter holidays so that we can have a real exchange with you soon. You have announced your intention to challenge ICT companies. I would have liked to know what you were actually going to do, knowing that the system in place is in fact completely dysfunctional, that the electronic forms intended for the submission of applications or amendments to applications are completely inadequate. They are supposed to reduce the professional burden of civil servants. However, it has increased 4 to 6 times. In 2014, the State of Ontario had to spend $32 million to get IBM, which had sold it the famous Cúram program, to correct it. Then he had to be abandoned. Same thing in the Netherlands and Minnesota! The program was known to be disastrous and was chosen by the SPF, management and the Secretary of State. You also announce that your priority is to ensure payment to people with disabilities. We share this priority. But to implement it, you have to go back to the old program, hire staff, and the call center has to respond more often. These files need to be handled by talking to public servants and not just by trying to fill out a form. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u98	Madam Secretary of State, there is no payment of allowances, no response to telephone contacts. On two occasions, the re-encoding of data by the various agents was necessary. There has been the removal of field consultations (either by default or by the disappearance of files from the computer system) and the non-issue of cards for persons with disabilities. That's a lot. The least we can say is that people with disabilities are largely abused. What is serious is that this is not a one-time problem. On several occasions, calls and alerts have been sent. On several occasions, Secretary of State Ms. Sleurs said: "It's no big deal. It's the youth disease of a new system." The Supreme Council of Persons with Disabilities has clearly asked you and your predecessor. This has been going on for a year now and the situation is getting worse. Again, over and over again, the first victims are people with disabilities who laugh. A solution must be reached as soon as possible. Two options are available to you: the first is to persist with this software which, if my information is correct, has already cost 12 million euros, all for nothing. The other solution, which is clearly recommended to you by the specialists, has long been – I am speaking to the whole government – to go back to the old software. Several errors have already been made in this case. Today, we can't afford to fail. This decision is paramount, urgent and you must make the right choice! There is only one obligation: an obligation of immediate result. Yes or no, Madam Secretary of State, have you made a decision? I am not talking about a small appeal for IBM to take care of it, but about a decision that will allow, tomorrow, to quickly correct this whole system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u99	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, over the last few days, I have received a lot of reports from people who are really out of touch, who no longer know how to get ahead, because they have no contact. I would like to read one of those messages, because besides the numbers, there are a lot of stories that really hurt. I'm reading Jacques' message. Dear Raoul, on 1 October 2016 my parking card for people with disabilities expired. When I made a new application to the services, I received an automatic e-mail that my application would be processed within ten days. After I applied again twelve days later, I received the same answer. I haven't gotten a single answer since January and it's been deadly quiet. When I call the number 0800/98.79.09, the phone keeps calling without an end. In the meantime, the deadline is also approaching in order to be able to file an appeal if my application was rejected. When I went to the OZ, I was told that they would suddenly no longer have access to my file at the FOD, due to one or more computer problems. They too do not receive answers to their questions. I don't understand. In the meantime, we're stuck with the fried pears. Mr Hedebouw, please send this message to Mrs Sleurs. It was then about Mrs. Sleurs, but I'm sending it to you now, Mrs. Demir. Well, Jacques, I did that today. There are thousands of stories of people in need. My questions are as follows. We all know that computer problems have been going on for several months. Mrs Sleurs then replied that it was time to bite through the sour apple. I have to say that for all those people with disabilities, that apple is very acidic, and it just keeps taking and taking. Madam Secretary of State, do you still agree with Mrs Sleurs' statement that we must bite through that sour apple? Or is it time to intervene? Secondly, following the discussion earlier, do you not think that you would have been better off with Unia over the weekend and more on this dossier? That's what this is about. It is time to put energy into that, and not just in attacks on Unia and the like. I have a third question, in particular on staff shortages. Many services indicate that they are no longer able to cope with it, not even technically with the information technology programme. Can you explain your plan today to resolve this within these services? Fourthly, will you continue to work with the computer program, although there are more and more indications that we will not get out of it, or will you find another solution to solve that social urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the dossier across party boundaries is a very important one. In my capacity as competent Secretary of State, I will do what needs to be done. I have several powers, but the competence in question, being the competence on files of people with disabilities, is priority number one for me. Mr Hedebouw, I was working on the dossier all the time last week. After all, I sat with my administration immediately after my oath. I see two major problems. Firstly, there is the problem of ICT and software, which I will come back to. Secondly, there is the problem of services. I shall be very clear on this point. I've received a lot of emails from people who need a parking ticket or who have questions about increased compensation. That's very bad. I also do not think it is possible for us to tell, in 2017 in a prosperous country, that there is a software problem and that they should wait, just like that group of people, who are very vulnerable and who are even the most vulnerable people in our society. What have I done so far? I will also refer to the problem in my policy paper and certainly to services. After all, I do not think it is possible for those concerned to wait eight months for a parking card. I sat with Frank Van Massenhove, the chairman of the FOD. We have considered whether we could find a solution to the most urgent problems. For me, the most urgent thing at the moment is that everyone gets their allowance, that anyone who is entitled to a benefit is entitled to it on time. I have been assured that this will happen. That happened at the end of February, and it will be for the next few months. I think this is the most important thing. I have also had several contacts with Jo Vandeurzen's cabinet on the file. There's been a deal. A roadmap has been drawn up since last week. A weekly steering committee has also been set up to work with the administration and my cabinet to follow that roadmap closely. More importantly, we failed Capgemini, the company that installed the new computer system. Anyone can understand that a system has children's diseases, but that there are structural errors in the system is unacceptable. I, along with Mr Frank Van Massenhove, immediately informed Capgemini that this cannot be done and that we are failing them. We must not forget that this has cost a great deal of money. What are we gonna do now? I can't throw what Capgemini made into the trash and re-enable money to invent a new system. No, I think Capgemini should be placed on his responsibilities. After all, this has cost enough money. More specifically, Capgemini is strengthening the development team by providing a full-time senior project manager and two complementary software engineers. A meeting between the business manager of Capgemini with the business specialists of DG HAN is scheduled next week. The aim is to clarify the situation of the reports and to define urgent actions. Capgemini is also finalizing a revision of the project structure to take account of new developments. At last Capgemini, who worked with junior staff on the project, is also taking a step forward by direct and full-time assigning a senior project manager, as well as two software engineers who will look at this. Another computer company, IBM, was contacted to provide and install a monitoring tool at the Social Security Office as soon as possible. I also asked the chairman, Mr Van Massenhove, to identify the training and support of staff. As I said, a return to the old Tetra system is not a sustainable option. I would like to point out that at the Council of Ministers meeting on 26 April 2013, under Mrs Onkelinx and Mr Courard, the decision was taken to modernise the IT system of the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities, which was finally adopted at the Council of Ministers on 5 February 2014 and which cost a great deal of money. So it does not seem sensible and especially time-consuming to throw the system overboard now and develop new programmes. I asked for the structural errors identified with the system to be resolved, as we paid for the system. That was also promised. We will monitor this day-to-day with the steering committee set up. In fact, the period of processing of the files has increased. However, remember that ten years ago it took 12 months for a dossier to be completed. Up to the software problems, the treatment period was four months. Now that period has risen again and we will do something about it. As I said, the service provided by the government to everyone, of course, but certainly to the target group, the most vulnerable in our society, is at my heart. I will include measures on this in my policy paper, which I will propose after the Easter holidays, because what happened is unacceptable. Mrs Lanjri, I have also tried to reach DG HAN on the telephone. It is true that this is very difficult to even be possible. I understand that the target group is calling DG HAN to find out whether or not they are receiving a concession. What have we done? We've attracted ten extra employees. They must now, of course, be trained to know the service and the way in which they are handled, before they can be employed at 100%. I also asked the President whether, in the context of the mobility of public staff, DG HAN could transfer officials from one department to another. At the beginning of February five persons with an autism spectrum disorder of the Passwerk vzw were also enabled to manually complete the databases. I must say that they do very well. I will conclude my speech, Mr President. As far as aid for the elderly is concerned, it is guaranteed. The FPS Social Security has included the commitment to manually migrate the necessary files in the Curam system, the new system. In order to avoid any risk, the order was given to make the payment for the month of February via the old system. We shall do the same for the month of March. I hope that the new system will be ready by the end of March in order to ensure continuity of payments. That is the most crucial thing at the moment. I also heard the cowboy story that the THAB would be paid out to the deceased. That's not right. There's nothing paid for dead people. After all, the FPS Social Security Office is informed of a death through the Crossroads Bank of Social Security and therefore immediately stops payments. So you will notice: I acted immediately and did what I had to do. However, I am well aware that only a small start has been made. The problem with the software has to be solved and the service to that target group is priority number one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u101	Madam Secretary of State, I note your indignation. I am very pleased that you have caught the cow by the horns. Listing all the actions you have taken, you prove that you did a lot more last week than just doing Unia. I can only conclude that you, perhaps like most of the ladies here in the Chamber, are effectively able to do different things at once. Mr Hedebouw, I've known the Secretary of State a little longer. I can reassure you in that, don't worry. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to say once again that you give priority to the target group in your policy. I look forward to the policy paper that we will be discussing in the Committee on Social Affairs in the coming weeks. You will find me the first partner to take concrete steps in relation to the policy for persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u102	Madam Secretary of State, 600 000 people with disabilities have been recognised in our country. Together with their families, they are in uncertainty. Many others who have applied for recognition have not yet received it. So they stay in the cold. I believe that we all share the view that it is high time to take action. Madam Secretary of State, I am therefore counting on you to ensure that people get what they are entitled to. Make sure that there is no delay in decisions, that recognition does not take six months. Not everyone has a savings fund to cover the waiting period. Many people, especially people with disabilities, do not have savings and have to live with a small benefit. They are, therefore, rightly counting on that benefit. It's up to the government to make sure people get what they deserve. In short, we know you as a passionate politician. I hope that you will now use that enthusiasm and energy to address the problem adequately and quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u103	Madam Secretary of State, for a service that works for the weakest in our society, the issue is shameful. The issue is shameful to our society. Let it be very clear, Madam Secretary of State: until a few days ago, your predecessor was politically responsible, now you are. However, I will end on a positive note. I would like to give you the benefit of the doubt, unlike the previous dossier, on which you yourself left little doubt. We will question you again in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u104	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, you say that people with disabilities are one of your priorities. It must be noted that your speech is different from that of your predecessor, who, for his part, had no priority, no vision and no ambition. So your speech is more voluntarist. That said, a change of speech is good, but it remains to be seen. On the other hand, I have not heard any commitment on your part to equip this administration with the necessary human resources in the short, medium and long term. In addition, you have not said anything about your willingness to reform the 1987 law. But we will certainly come back to this issue in a substantive debate in committee. You also did not indicate your willingness to return to the TETRA system. Of course, this would not be a long-term solution. But in the short term, it would reassure applicants, staff, doctors who are no longer paid because nothing is encoded. This would, in any case, alleviate existing tensions. Finally, as Secretary of State, you have the responsibility to operate the administration for the benefit of persons with disabilities. I must confess that your answer does not reassure me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u105	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I expected a more complete and firm response after hearing your statements in the press. You say that your priority is the payment of allowances. As you said, in order to pay the allowances on February 21, it was necessary to use the old system. In addition, you know that people whose situation has changed have not been paid because the new system does not work. Now you're saying that we're going to keep the new system instead of going back to the old one despite the utility of the old one. I gave you the example of Ontario, Minnesota and Holland where the situation was catastrophic. I would remind you that this system is being sold by IBM, experts who are being asked today in Belgium to correct the shooting when they have not been able to do so elsewhere. So I can only conclude that you refuse to see the problem of the choice of services as a whole. You're announcing the commitment of ten people, but it was already announced by Mrs. Sleurs. You're talking about the loan of personnel from other services, but it's already real. They cannot meet the needs: we need to expand the time frames, we need to allow people to submit their requests by speaking to officials in the offices and not by filling out incomprehensible forms! Finally, I would like the Disability DG to have the courage to audit its functioning, as Unia did. In addition, Unia organized a remarkable campaign to include persons with disabilities in the professional environment, which should have been organized by Secretary of State Sleurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u106	Madam Secretary of State, a senior project mananger, two software engineers and IBM, and you say it's gonna be okay! It's been months since your predecessor said it's gonna be okay! I would like you to measure here that your speech is absolutely not credible for the people concerned. However, the situation of some of them is catastrophic, particularly because of the lack of allocation. There are other consequences. In these centres, some people are no longer paid, including doctors. You risk losing them and finding yourself in an even more complicated situation. Don't you insist on the mistake? The previous software was working. This software is not of today: it is not a victim of youth diseases. If you are stubborn, you may have significant extra costs and not be effective in meeting your responsibilities. I urge you to give yourself a short-term performance obligation. It's March. If by April you don't get any results with IBM computer specialists, you will have to be surgical and return to the old system, as you strongly suggest a whole series of officials in your administration. This will help to avoid an even more catastrophic situation than it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u107	Madam Secretary of State, the difference between the answer given to us by Mrs Sleurs a few months ago and your answer today is not clear to me. Basically, they'll do their best. I am sorry that Capgemini will now assign senior staff to the project instead of junior staff. This means that the measures that the company could have taken a few months ago were not taken. This admits that the company had been having human resources solutions for weeks, but that they were not applied and that they were waiting for weeks, while they were dealing with people in need. Mrs Sleurs had said that we had to bite the sour apple, and it is still said that we will begin. Madam Secretary of State, this cannot continue! I really hope that in the coming days – not in the weeks, let us be very clear about the deadline – we will find a solution. Count on us and all the actors in the field to continue putting pressure to find a solution for all those people who are disabled and who deserve to have their allowance, their parking card, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u108	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u109	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sophie De Wit, Sonja Becq, Gilles Foret, Philippe Goffin, Raf Terwingen, Goedele Uyttersprot, Carina Van Cauter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Ms Becq, Ms Özen and Mr Calomne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u111	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u112	Mr President, this proposal is a final part of the reform of legal aid that we have already approved in this Chamber. You all know that everyone is entitled to the assistance of a free lawyer. That is a fundamental right. It's in the ECHR. Some of us know a little bit better than others, because they have experienced this as a lawyer themselves in pro-Deo files, that when they give legal assistance, they sometimes receive compensation only one or two years later, not knowing how much it will be. The budget is always divided by the number of files. That number is never known in advance. At the end of the year, there is often a finding that there is insufficient budget and that there is a need for adjustment. We also know that the number of pro-Deo files has increased dramatically in recent years, increasing costs every year. There are several reasons for this. In 2003, there was an increase in revenue limits. This means that, in ten years' time, there was a doubling of files and the budget tripled, bringing us now to EUR 75 to 80 million. In the spring of 2018 that will come to us now... will come the first payments of the asylum crisis files, but also the expansion of Salduz, which had to be implemented in response to the regulation in Europe. So we need an extra budget. The lawyers have already raised the alarm several times. Mr Brotcorne has asked a question on this, and a debate has also been held on this, because many pro-Deo lawyers are dropping out or even stopping. The victim is the pro-Deoclient, the one who needs legal aid. As a result, the guarantee of quality legal assistance is increasingly under threat. These people must not, of course, stand in the cold. We saw it coming at the first Salduz in 2010 and 2011. That must have been the nicest parliamentary period because there was no government. At that time there were very nice debates in the committee. The first Salduz Act came into being at that time and we already felt that it would create additional costs for the legal aid budget. I remember an info moment at the desk, explaining how everything had to work. We kept talking about that. Some lawyers came to me to ask me how the payments would be made and whether there was enough budget. After all, there was already a knack. They asked me how we could solve it. Some sort of solution was then created after we had looked at which systems already existed. We started thinking with a number of people and we came up with a fund, by analogy with the victim fund, in which everyone who is convicted of criminal offences makes a contribution. It could then serve for the pro-Deo files. Our group has worked out this idea in a legislative proposal that was tabled in the previous legislature. By analogy with the victim fund, there would be such a kind of pro-Deo fund. Every convict should make a contribution. The Court of Auditors had already calculated that it could raise between 14 and 16 million. So we didn't think it was a bad idea. If the budgets were inadequate, we could help a little. The proposal was not adopted at the time, but it did reach the coalition agreement. We have re-recorded it and, along the way, we have had to revise and adapt our initial legislative proposal, because there were a number of risks associated with it. I would also refer to the debate we are having today on the victim fund, which is mainly used by people who commit a traffic offence. However, at the time there was also an opinion from the Council of State, which stated that we could not limit it only to criminal matters, because that would constitute discrimination. This is not in itself illogical, knowing that 70% of all restrictions are rather civil law and only 30% criminal law. The Council of State also told us that we should provide for social corrections. There has been a whole search and a whole exercise, together with the cabinet, has been made across the boundaries of the Cabinets of Finance and Justice and in consultation with the Registrys. I would like to thank everyone who worked on it very much. This is how the current proposal came about, and we are not asking for an unreasonable contribution of EUR 20. That's not multiplied by decimations. It is a nominal amount, it goes specifically to a pro-Deo fund and can only be used for that purpose. During the debate in committee there was still confusion about that. No, it may only be used for pro-Deo files. There are a lot of social corrections: pro-Deans should not pay the contribution, there are exemptions in labour disputes and in social consensualities. It is true, of course, as the Council of State had requested, both in civil matters and in criminal matters and in administrative matters, that of the Council of State and the Council for Foreign Affairs. The system used is as follows: the 20 euros will be deducted from the sentence, i.e. at the end of the proceedings, and will be included in the court fees. In administrative and civil matters, the plaintiff will have to pay the amount of 20 euros, but he can recover that from the loser, if he is right. During the discussion in committee, I also heard a lot of criticism of the proposal. I understand that, too. It was an interesting debate in this area, by the way. A first criticism was made about the additional threshold. It would be another extra threshold to the Justice Department. I would like to say four things. First of all, I do not want to say that EUR 20 is not much money for some people, because I am aware that this is a lot for some people, but it is, fortunately, a reasonable and limited contribution in itself. Secondly, the poor, the really financially weak, are exempt and do not have to pay the contribution. Thirdly, if the claimant is right in civil or administrative matters, he can recover the contribution from the losing party. Fourthly, it is of course not a threshold in criminal matters, because that is where the amount is imposed only at the time of the conviction and, of course, no one is obliged to commit a crime. I understand that a comment is made on the threshold, but I am trying to clarify in this way that this additional threshold deserves a certain nuance. The second major criticism was that the government should finance the additional budgets needed and that this should not be asked of the citizen. I can understand that criticism, too. I won't hide from that. There is, however, the reality of budgetary cuts. I think, then, what we wanted to do in the previous legislature, at a time when we were not in the government, that one should also be creative, if not the overall budget remains too low, and then the qualitative assistance for the poor will be compromised and we do not want that. If it is said today that it must come from the general budget of resources and that the government must pay it, then I ask the question where the money comes from in the general budget. We all know that this comes from every citizen and every taxpayer, including those who do not call on justice, who do not come into contact with it. The purpose of this fund is just to allow part of these additional costs to be paid not only by the user, by the user, by the one who actually comes into contact with the Justice Department, and not to pass it on to every taxpayer. As I said, this fund hopes that the additional costs of what comes towards us can be paid without being charged to every taxpayer. As I said, and I would like to reiterate, this is very specific to the pro-Deo system, not to anything else, and to provide qualitative assistance to those who really need it. It is a political option, with which some will agree and others will not. In a perfect world we may find others, but in this world and in the current context, we have found a reasonable and very feasible solution to ensure that there is legal certainty for those who want to work for the poor and those who want to take care of them, so that they can continue to provide good services to the pro-Deo clients, to the financially weaker. Colleagues, that is ultimately the ultimate finality of this proposal: not just getting money, but above all providing quality services for pro-Deo clients. We must monitor this finality, and we are trying to do so with this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u113	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, accessible justice is a necessity for any democratic society. Access to justice is not a theoretical right. He must not be a utopia. Ensuring access to justice means guaranteeing the rule of law and ensuring the equality of all citizens. It is also to reject the law of the strongest and to ensure that the laws voted here will be respected by all and for all. Since the beginning of this parliamentary term, we know that the government has kept moving the citizen away from justice, in particular by increasing the role rights, the moderator ticket and the VAT for the pro deo. All these measures of the majority have constantly increased what I call the black figure of justice, that is, all those who are considered too rich to benefit from second-line legal aid are in fact too poor to afford the services of a lawyer. Today, much of the middle class is affected by these measures, which limit access to justice. Yet it is this population, already disadvantaged in its economic power relations, that has the greatest need for justice. What other legal means do these people have to assert their rights? This is a question that can be asked on the basis of these findings. It can be said that the majority is falling back into its own way because this proposal is unquestionably unfair. The MR/N-VA majority creates a new barrier to access to justice. Indeed, each additional fee to enforce its rights excludes a new layer of the population from the services of justice. On the other hand, imposing a new flat-rate tax, which does not take into account income, is socially unjust. As I have repeatedly said in committee, demanding twenty euros from a multinational company and demanding twenty euros from a single mother who receives a minimum wage is obviously not the same. It is despairing to have to recall such evidence in this assembly in 2017. I've repeated it many times, but I feel like we're still deaf ears. Beyond this social injustice, this proposal is part of a unfortunately commercial conception of justice that would be a consumer good like another and those who choose to use it should bear the costs. To take legal action would therefore have become a luxury that some people can do without. The minister has often referred to the notion of responsibility, i.e. to empower those who would engage in abusive legal actions, etc. This is a position I do not share at all. I do not think that, out of pure pleasure, people take legal action, waste their time, their energy and money. There is nothing more wrong since legal action, especially for low incomes, is often a very heavy choice. It is often an ultimate recourse and, again, having to explain it today in this House is foolish. Frankly, I'm almost starting to despair! As I said, and Mrs De Wit has also repeated, we do not have the same notion of the fundamental right of access to justice, which, I repeat, serves society as a whole and whose democratic character it is necessary to preserve. For this reason, the "legal aid" envelope must be financed from the State budget. Contrary to what the MR/N-VA majority suggests, this legal aid fund is not inevitable. It is just the consequence of its own budgetary choices. To maintain the already inadequate budget for second-line legal aid, the government turned to the middle class and forced it again to compensate for the tax gifts made to the richest. You will understand, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot support this text. As in committee, I will oppose it, as will my whole group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u114	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group will support this text in the votes that will take place this evening. It's not a surprise, we did it in committee. The difficulties of second-line legal aid and the question of its funding are not new, unfortunately. As Mrs De Wit said, we would all like an ideal world. Unfortunately, we have a world with constraints. Under these constraints, efforts must be made to ensure that the justice service is rendered and that everyone has access to justice. Mr. Minister, over the years, you have committed yourself to maintaining the value of the point at an acceptable level for lawyers practising second-line legal aid. Budgets in recent years have increased steadily. We know that this increase will not stop, especially with the effect of the development of Salduz legislation. The proposed solutions can be criticized. The solution put forward here has at least the merit of empowering legal aid. It has the merit of pragmatism and realism. The establishment of a legal aid fund will help to put oil in the workings of the pro deo. This is likely to bring more guarantees to lawyers. I would like to commend here the important work that has been carried out by the sponsors of the proposal. This is not a proposal that comes here on an emergency basis. On the contrary, the Council of State was consulted. The work has been handed over on several occasions to arrive at the proposal for a text now submitted to this House. I thank all the members of this committee, as I do every time, because the Commissioners, the majority and the opposition, do not hesitate to make their reflections, their amendments. These elements are sometimes retained, sometimes not - this is another debate - but in any case they are always interesting. Minister, you have made a commitment that the funds raised will be used for legal aid, a key element in this reform, without which it would not make sense. A class of the population may have to give up using a lawyer because it belongs to the middle class, which is above the thresholds for obtaining assistance. In some cases, the situation is difficult. Hope is then deferred to insurance, a complex subject currently under discussion. Financial balances must be found in order to design this reform in a positive way. My group encourages you to find a solution to ensure that everyone has access to justice, either through help or through insurance. No one should be deprived of the basic right of access to justice because of his financial situation and his means.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u115	Mr President, it is also important for us to have access to justice for everyone. That is why it is important that the pro-Deo system exists and that there can be qualitative assistance from people, who have made a huge expansion in recent years, partly thanks to the Salduz regime. With the Law of 6 July 2016, we reformed the legal assistance and strengthened the criteria for those who can benefit from the second-line legal assistance. There is also a limited contribution in that law to cover the costs of the lawyer. The proposal on the Fund sought to generate additional resources in order to compensate pro-Deo attorneys correctly and to be able to pay them in proportion to the work they are doing, also in order to ensure the quality assurance that everyone wants, including in cases of assistance to the underprivileged. We therefore support the bill. I'd like to quote one more element. For us, it is important to take another step in burdening pro-Deo performance. That proposal has been put forward by us. It is often young lawyers who do the pro-Deo assistance. They will not be reimbursed immediately for their services in pro-Deo cases, but will only be reimbursed a few years later. If the compensation is only to follow a few years later, what I hope for most of them will be added to their higher income, because then those lawyers have been working a little longer. In this respect, we have the proposal to reduce the rate of attack in question and to achieve an average rate of attack. We hope that the proposal can be supported and adopted with equal enthusiasm in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u116	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we may not say enough, but justice is one of the foundations of our democratic model. A good Justice means that as a citizen one can expect to be tracked down and prosecuted if one is the victim of a crime. In addition, it is necessary to ensure that appropriate compensation is paid. If one is involved in a conflict as a citizen, one must be able to effectively call on the Justice Department to obtain a qualitative ruling in the dispute quickly and efficiently. Ladies and gentlemen, the assistance of a counsellor is something I do not agree with, because for us, that is a fundamental right, which is an integral part of the right to a fair trial. That is also the reason why long ago, and that is why our society has been graced by the fact that the government has provided a system of second-line assistance for those who are financially unable to provide that assistance, so that the poor are also entitled to that basic assistance and a fair trial. I think we all know that in recent years it has become clear that the system of second-line assistance, as we know it today, was not feasible. That had two reasons. On the one hand, it was necessary to modernise and reform the system. That has happened in the meantime. On the other hand, we must recognise and acknowledge the need to ensure sustainable refinancing of the system. That is what this proposal is for. I know it is not the best choice, but I also know and do not doubt for a moment that the Minister of Justice has done his utmost to release additional resources for justice, supported by all the groups in the majority. In order to refinance and continue to guarantee this second-line assistance, the search for an alternative was necessary. As Mr De Wit said, this was ideally applied only in criminal matters. However, the Council of State has pointed out to us that if we wanted to work with a fee or contribution, we had to ensure a general application of the rule. That's what happened. It's not the best solution. Ideally, the second-line assistance was financed from general resources. As this proved impossible, we were in favour of the choice of inadequate provision for second-line assistance or an alternative. We have chosen for the latter, but we have chosen for what one can expect in a democratic society: everyone is entitled to that assistance that gives the right to a fair trial. It is a small contribution, so it must be feasible for those who do not need second-line assistance. That's where the social correction plays out. Moreover, and this seems only fair: if it turns out that justice was rightly invoked and it is confirmed in its rights, then that contribution can also be recovered. That's the righteous thing about this system. The government won't be affected. What we absolutely do not want is for the authorities to be hindered in the detection of crime. I believe that we can all agree on this. All this makes it not an easy choice. It was a difficult decision. I would like to congratulate Mr De Wit on the way in which, as is the tradition in the Committee on Justice, she has sought solutions across the boundaries of opposition and majority. I cannot repeat this enough. This is why I was at least elected to this Parliament: to provide solutions. That is what we all hope to do together today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u117	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in our Committee on the Court of Justice many framework laws are passed which are often difficult. Difficult and very technical. As a non-jurist, a major exception in this hemisphere and certainly a major exception in the committee, I look at many dossiers from the point of view of ordinary people, not as magistrate, lawyer or lawyer. I speak in the name of many who, even though they did not study law, find well-functioning and, above all, accessible courts in Belgium a must. I'm trying to look at many of those files with some common sense. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already noticed one thing. Some things are deliberately complicated, making it almost unnoticed that unfair matters are being dealt with. Ladies and gentlemen, today we shall be voting on a proposal from the majority parties to set up a second-line legal assistance budget fund. Why did such a fund have to be created? Perhaps because the government did not provide sufficient resources for second-line assistance, better known as pro-Deo assistance. There are no such funds, and that is why the majority of my fellow Members are so kind as to create a so-called fund for them. But, ladies and gentlemen, what is before us today is not a budget fund. It is a flat new tax of 20 euros per trial, for anyone who goes to court. Perhaps, we have already heard, EUR 20 is not much for a minister, for a lawyer or for a lawyer, but EUR 20 is a lot of money for a lot of people and is yet another barrier that makes access to justice more difficult. What are we going to vote on today? About the new Geentakeks. The majority members of this House are making justice more expensive. And not once, but over and over and over again. In recent years, VAT on lawyers' fees has already been increased by 21%. The government has also already increased registry and role rights. And today, a little between the soup and the patts, we are going to approve a Nietslags of 20 euros. Colleagues, will another budgetary problem within the Justice Department be passed on to the people? It's the world upside down. You tell people that they have to draw their plan when they're in trouble, that they have to pay, while a judge has to be there to help people who can't get out. The initiators of this proposal initially even tried to avoid the words "Tax" and "Tax." They were talking about a kind of budget fund, which sounds more innocent. However, even the Council of State has rightly pointed out that this is a flat, new extra tax. The shame here is that the majority is still trying to get away by saying that it is only EUR 20. You send people by the register, while those people want to be helped with their misery. Also sp.a is for a good pro-Deo system, it should still be defective in Belgium. However, when it comes to budgeting, we must provide sufficient resources for the general budget. Now, with an additional tax, it is impossible for us to transfer additional costs to ordinary people in search of justice. We continue to argue for a good and accessible Justice, but today we see that we are moving a step further towards a Justice for an elite with enough money. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's what we fit for. The story of an accessible Justice is getting another serious blow today. Our group will therefore expressly reject the proposal of this new No-Tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have worked thoroughly in committee, but the final result is not what we had hoped for. However, we have had a good debate. I can tell by the way that Mrs De Wit is homesick at that time, when we were still able to debate freely, and when we tried to find a majority, across borders of... well, there was no majority and opposition. We were just looking for a basis for implementing certain measures. Mrs. De Wit, now you're in a carcan a little bit more. I also hear this frustration to some extent from Mr Van Cauter, who says that what is now before us is not really the best solution. Between the lines, I understand that Mrs Van Cauter will soon press the green button with long teeth. However, we have had an in-depth debate. As it should be, we have also asked for the opinion of the Council of State with the committee. After the Council of State's justified comments, however, changes had to be made. We have also used the second reading system, which has become a habit that works well. The result was that three amendments were tabled at second reading, which means that the second reading is indeed useful, as we all know in the Committee on Justice. Perhaps we should convince our fellow Members to do more in the other committees too, because that would improve the quality of the legislation. So much for the good news. The less good news is that, despite all the changes made following the opinion of the Council of State and the second reading, we have a very fundamental and fundamental discussion in which we differ. The discussion is about how the measure is financed. Will the fund be financed by asking for a contribution from any judge or accused person, anyone who goes to court, or is it funded by public funds? We believe that this fund should be clearly funded by public funds. Now, however, an additional invoice will be submitted to the applicant. Ladies and gentlemen, this problem has been referred back to the Committee on Justice for many years. It's not gonna stop. A few years ago, justice fees were increased. Subsequently, VAT was introduced. In that case, the Registry fees were significantly increased. However, with regard to the increase in registry rights, the Constitutional Court has intervened and we have been instructed to recreate our homework; I am curious as to how that will happen. Moreover, the argument of the Constitutional Court is interesting and perhaps that argument is also valid for the legislative proposal now before us. The Constitutional Court says that it has been enough for now. Over and over again, measures are being taken to make access to justice more difficult and expensive with arguments which, in fact, do not make sense with regard to the increase in registry fees. If this text were to come before the Constitutional Court, I do not know if that will happen. I am curious to see what the Court will do, but the argument it used in destroying the increase in registry rights is a very clear signal. A signal that calls for attention: we are dealing here with an essential principle of access to justice, an access that is made far too high. Additional thresholds are introduced, which is unsustainable. What's it about? You have a deficit of 15 to 20 million to pay the pro-Deo fees. I'm very sorry. Minister, money flows to the Belgian State have been created, although not directly to the Justice Department, but above all to your colleague from the Treasury when it comes to VAT and registry fees. You can do it until 1 August and then we have to find a solution. That money would be better transferred to the Justice Department. Then you should not introduce a fee of EUR 20. In addition, you must take account of the administrative burden. You are introducing this system in order to raise 15 to 20 million, but there will be administrative costs, which have not been taken into account, again a very unfortunate measure that will raise the threshold sensitively. That is the principle, but I would like to touch on two aspects. What matters does this apply to? We have had a lot of discussion about this and the problem of class actions has been clarified, but I continue to have difficulty with, for example, accreditation. Homologization happens when parties who have a conflict come out of it themselves, conclude an agreement and go to court to ask if the court can give it legal force; they ask the court to homologate it, so that it has a certain probative force and parties, if there are problems, have a title to execute. There too, there is a payment to be made. Where one actually asks for a service to the Justice Department we had a conflict, we have agreed, it is on paper, put a signature and a stamp on it, for that too one has to pay. What one does not have to pay for is the application of the buy-back law, the friendly settlement. That was in your first text, Mrs. De Wit. It used to say that, but it was taken out. I know that the Constitutional Court had problems with that. We will see what solution will emerge, but that will only be after the results of the Kazachgate Committee of Inquiry. Suppose, however, that the majority would decide afterwards to retain that buy-back law in a certain form, especially as it is today or in a different way, and we want to apply that tax to it, then we will have to change that law again. We are in favour of abolition, but if you keep it, I propose 10%. If 200 million euros per year are recovered through the redemption bill, then 10 % 20 million euros and the gap is closed. We must think about how to ensure that there is no inequality, but that is my suggestion. I think that 10 or 20 people in this country, who have a lot of money to pay off a fine, can make a small contribution for them to finance the second-line assistance. That would be fairer to me than to spread the invoice on everyone, whatever the situation, to go to the Justice Department. This government is making justice more and more a luxury product, an invaluable service. That's the evolution that's been going on for years. That is totally unacceptable to us. That is why we will vote against it with great conviction. I will abstain because I have a vote with a sick colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u119	Minister, it will be no! Mrs De Wit, it will be no! Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that will be no! A triple no to your proposal, which is just a disguised bill. What are we talking about? Access to justice for the poorest, and more specifically the financing of this access, since we all know that justice at a cost. Minister, in my young career as a lawyer, I did what was still known as pro deo – which is no longer so called. It was then really practiced for free pro deo: without any remuneration. I even remember that, on the envelopes, which were not to be freed because of agreements with La Poste, it was necessary to move on to postage - so that the lawyers trainees had to pay the stamps. Then, and this seems to me to be the honor of our democracy, we considered this system to be somewhat weak and not quite normal. It was said that a multi-person public service was being operated and that perhaps it was time for him to be paid properly. Thus, the idea of funding legal aid was born. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the functioning of justice, access to justice and its financing for the most disadvantaged concern a regal public service which is carried out by private persons, namely the lawyers - who, as I have just pointed out, have financed the system for a long time. With the proposal before us today – and the loop will be closed – it is the justiciable who will now finance access to justice for the poorest. Where is the state still under this scheme? Apart from appointing a few judges – thus, not 100% – and hosting the justice system in generally dilapidated buildings, where does the state still intervene in the financing of legal aid? In addition to this, Mr.Minister and colleagues from the majority, the other part of the funding for legal aid is to ensure that lawyers who practise legal aid receive decent remuneration. Is the text proposed to us to be welcomed because it has, we are told, for the purpose of financing this legal aid? I don't believe it, and I told you. It will be no, and a very firm no, from my group. Why? I used the word "abdication" earlier on on topical issues. I'll come back to it right now. Clearly, the State abdicates and abandons its obligations to finance this public service and access to justice. As we used to do with this majority, we privatize. It's like saying: "I'm going to put the burden of this funding on the people. This will enable me to fulfil my obligations." It is a political choice and you have already mentioned it several times in this forum. It is an ideological choice: to have the "client", not the recipient of legal aid, but the "client" who, in fact, cannot claim legal aid, the financing of this service, instead of the state. It is an ideological choice, which I would certainly never have made and which my group would never have made. I don't understand that we can make that choice. It is up to the State to finance services that are still regal. Of course this is done thanks to the tax. You'll tell us that you're only asking for 20 euros in the end. It's a kind of doorstep that you have to pay to be able to file a lawsuit. The majority who have spoken have already repeated this: there are budgetary constraints, we do not know how to do what we want. We can no longer do what we want, nor even fulfil our fundamental mission as a State. So we need to find sources of funding elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, public protection, the police service that we provide in our communes and at the level of the federal state is a real public and regal service. Have you ever imagined, even for a moment, asking those of the population who are anxious to call on a police service to pay first 20 euros, on the pretext of problems of financing this service? It wouldn't come to anyone's idea. However, this is exactly like what you are doing with regard to the funding of legal aid. Also, you will understand that I do not perceive this measure as an objective solution. That's why I think it should be refused. Especially since you're going to ask for the 20 euros, but who? Not to all taxpayers, not to the beneficiaries of legal aid; they could not do so – which did not prevent your government from already introducing a €50 package for legal aid recipients. Anyway, who's going to pay the 20 euros we're talking about right now? Those who are not legal aid recipients who will dare – since this is the term that appears to be in force – to initiate legal proceedings or who will be prosecuted in a correctional court. "These 20 euros don't represent much," I will be told. But it is a further increase in registry fees that is in addition to the previous ones already voted by this government. Even though Stefaan Van Hecke has just reminded him, the Constitutional Court requires you to review your copy. But who's gonna pay those 20 euros? Who's going to have trouble paying them? All those who are already in a complicated situation. This is confirmed by all the justice professionals. These are those who have legal rights but are reluctant to do so because they do not benefit from legal aid, significant revenues, or tax deductions for lawyers' fees. They will eventually wonder whether, despite the importance of what the procedure may represent for them, they should extend a whole series of costs, thinking that they are likely to lose them if they do not win their action. And it is not because we have won a trial, because the expenses are borne by the party who succumbs, that we will have a 100% chance of recovering all the costs and expenses, as they are described. Indeed, one may be faced with a convicted person or an adversary who is obliged to make reparation for damage but who is insolvent. In this case, the €20 will be permanently lost, with all the benefit to the State which will finance legal aid. Mr Minister, if this is not part of a concerted overall plan, we are faced with an addition of measures, of measures presented as being of no importance, on the assumption that 20 euros, it is no big deal, that 50 euros, it is still feasible. The increase in registry fees, my God, but that's it! Justice must focus on its core tasks. Maybe she shouldn't do a series of things anymore. I wonder whether the ultimate objective is not to divert as many people as possible from the judiciary, so that they can remain within the budgetary constraints imposed from outside, without an objective analysis of the real needs of the judiciary, but also of the population who may, some day, find themselves justiciable. It is, in the end, to divert justice from its vocation. Just now, the majority has repeatedly indicated that there are constraints and that solutions need to be found. Dear friends of the CD&V, dear members of the majority, is there another way to get the money? At first glance, however, the amount is not as large as one might think, since it is a question of 15 or 20 million which would be covered by the 20 euros in question. By means of an interposed press, one regularly hears about the desire to tax capital gains. This is even one of the objectives of a part of government. Do you not think that, thanks to taxation of capital gains, even minimal, there would be a much more interesting budget which would make it possible to finance legal aid otherwise, without yet soliciting those who already have difficulty going to a judge? Do you not think that this would allow these people to appeal to justice without being prosecuted or questioned by financial aspects that do not have their place when choosing to enforce their right in court? Although some may initially consider this to be a wrong right, it will still be necessary to wait for a magistrate to say so. Minister, I think there are other avenues than those that you propose to us that would allow us to achieve the same result. Mr. Minister, do you really believe that, thanks to the system in place, you will be able to properly compensate lawyers who still agree to practise legal aid today? You may no longer find enough of these private persons who agree to perform a regal service instead of the state. Do you think you're going to be able to improve the compensation, when we're still in a closed envelope? Legal aid amounts to 26 euros gross per hour. One point represents an hour and there are more and more subjects falling within the scope of legal aid. We talked about the extension with the Salduz law. Because of your limited envelope, you will always be faced with misery compensation for lawyers. Today, there are lawyers who, by practising legal aid - that is, by associating themselves with the duties of the State to allow access to justice for the poorest people - are themselves in a situation of insecurity or even distress. I learned a few years ago that in my bar, some intern lawyers called for income from insertion. That is to say that at some point the problem is on the side of the litigant to whom access to justice must be guaranteed, but it is also on the side of lawyers who will no longer be able to accept, because of the indecency of the compensation offered to them, to practise this legal aid. Mr Minister, as you will have understood, the political and ideological choices made by the majority, I cannot share them, my group does not share them. We will certainly not support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u120	Mr President, I am surprised that this proposal has been dealt with in the Committee on Justice, whereas it should have been dealt with in the Committee on Finance, since it is simply a new tax! However, it is true that this reduces access to justice, contrary to what I have heard in some of the co-authors. There is a problem of access to justice in this country: too few people can call on a pro deo lawyer. Indeed, the income ceiling is too low, the threshold of access continues to rise and the underfunding of legal aid leads to great uncertainty among lawyers who commit themselves to those who are entitled to a pro deo lawyer. I am surprised that the right, and particularly the MR, has this anti-fiscal demagogy in this file. Finally, a citizen pays the tax on natural persons and claims that he or she has access to State services, including justice. He has access to this justice, but he realizes that in addition to his personal tax, he has to pay VAT on lawyers' fees, plus registry fees, which you have increased even further. Then he discovers the moderator tickets, in a particular case. Gentlemen and ladies of the MR, what do you call this accumulation of taxes in your party's jargon? (...): Solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u121	Solidarity, it's not in your jargon! What do you call that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u122	Taxatory rabies!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u123	Taxatory rabies! It is the PS that must give the answer for the MR! It's serious! Tax rabies is the accumulation of taxes! But this is not about any taxes. The tax on natural persons is progressive: the higher the income you have, the higher the tax you pay. VAT is already much less fair since it is proportional and everyone pays the same rate. The tax here is completely regressive: the higher the income, the lower the tax rate. For an Albert Brother, the tax does not represent anything. For Albert Brother's concierge, for example, who would have a legal dispute with his boss, the tax rate is much higher. That's what you do through this system. You follow the "user pays" principle. I could also compare with the health insurance system: only the sick would contribute to a fund funding their care. This is crazy! The social security system, which applies true solidarity – not yours, which is biased – implies that each citizen contributes according to his means. Your system is opposed to solidarity. It also creates uncertainty about funding since the size of the funds raised will depend on the people who will resort to legal proceedings. We could have a perverse effect. If fewer people appeal to justice, because they can't pay these fees, there will be less and less money in your fund. Therefore, the objective of this law, namely the payment of the pro deo, will not be achieved. In conclusion, I would like to say that access to justice is a democratic right and not a luxury. Justice is a public service – even though I know that the right does not like this expression of "public service" – and should remain so while with your reforms it is less and less so. In order not to raise the access threshold further, the existing legal aid item must be increased in the budget. The solution should be that the value of one hour's lawyer's work is set at at least EUR 75 and therefore there is no question of financing by closed envelope. This would end uncertainty for lawyers and ensure quality work while maintaining the right to justice, including for the poorest. It is in the general budget that we must take the means. Therefore, the PTB will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u124	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, like other speakers, I wonder what your real conception of legal aid is as a condition of access to justice. In short, you are in the process of reshaping the system, without having the audacity to raise the real debate that is that of access to justice for the greatest number of citizens. This is a debate of principle. It is a debate that the bar associations want it to be conducted for a long time by the legislator, by the government, but, in reality, it is a debate that is continually postponed because you have, as the sole concern, the search for new revenues to try to find balances – which are increasingly threatened by your policy – of financing justice. That is what is the bias of all the reasoning that you have put in place. And I thank Mrs Van Cauter for having had the frankness to say that it is a mistake, a very bad mistake. It is a choice that simply aims to say to the litigants: you are ultimately responsible for the financing of legal aid, regardless of your financial status and, in this case, those who have low or very average incomes because, in the end, you are going to put the burden on these litigants. It is not commercial companies, it is not a number of litigants who will obviously find it difficult, but it is the justiciable citizen who has only his or her income from labour to finance the use of justice and, sometimes, his or her income from labour is very modest. It is therefore an ideological choice which focuses on the middle class, and in particular the one representative of the lowest middle class in its income capacity, the burden of financing a service as essential as that of legal aid. It is a real ideological choice against the middle class you make and against the lowest incomes, for lack of courage to put the real debate on access to justice. For example, I understand that we are told that tax revenues are what they are, that we are not going to overload. But you have not given any thought to how to establish perhaps a percentage of the insurance premiums taken for legal aid: to allocate, as is done for other policies, in the financing of the Victims' Fund, for example, part of the premium paid for legal aid to insurance companies, to the financing of legal aid. The mass would be expanded. It may be possible to have a more proportional criterion. For, of course, those who pay heavy insurance premiums would pay more to go to court. This is a principle of proportionality that would probably have been fairer than your system. But you didn't choose that. You chose what we might call taxatory rabies. When you add up all the price increases you've invented – the registry fees and the moderator ticket for those who use second-line legal aid – each time you tell us that these are modest contributions, that the amounts are modest, almost insignificant. I am speaking to those who are still lawyers; when you see the convictions and make a statement of all the costs and other costs of justice that come in addition to the main conviction, you see substantial increases in the cost of justice. To the extent that those who fear to be the succumbing party question themselves and dare not defend themselves in justice. Those who have financial stakes, who have to assume on average or modest incomes, make the calculation to know whether the risk of the trial is ultimately penalising financially in relation to their ability to contribute. How far are you going to push this infernal reasoning that is undermining the trust of the justiciable in the role and importance of the judiciary? This is essentially what I blame for your ideological approach. That's what you're putting in place. The result is that either private arbitration (those who can finance it) is accepted; or false negotiations, to the point that the lawyers themselves advise to accept a compromise between the parties, even if your rights are no longer fully recognized, because it is better than to bear the costs of justice. Or, quite simply, you give up any defence of your rights and you give up sometimes your claim, sometimes the rights that you can yet ask the justice to enforce. I will end with one aspect. I am convinced that your law will go to the Constitutional Court without a problem, because you have answered only imperfectly. You have selected certain aspects of the opinion of the Council of State, but you have not responded to all of its arguments, particularly with regard to the principle of equality and non-discrimination. For example, you have targeted some administrative jurisdictions to assert the obligation to pay a complementary duty of role, but you have not targeted all of them. Only the Council of State and the Foreign Litigation Council are covered. Why are all other administrative courts forgotten in your legal reasoning? No explanation. I can tell you that tomorrow you will have an appeal to the Constitutional Court to try to understand this difference in treatment depending on whether you are in some administrative courts and not in others. I think you're going to have a famous legal problem in the coming months! You have therefore invented a system which has been the subject of a very interesting opinion of the Council of State, moreover. When you read this opinion correctly, you found that it invited you to abandon this system. He told you that you were making a mistake about a number of things. But you persevered, and then the government, as we understand it, took over. He had to rearrange a bill that was finally very poorly drafted, and found a bad balance, a bad outcome to the substantive debate that you did not want to address. Mr. Minister of Justice, we expected, as soon as the government took over, that you would think on a different scale rather than patching up what was already misconceived from the start. Like that, when you embark on a way without a way out, you can try to find a way through, but you always find a new way out, and that's what threatens you. The way will most likely be unsuccessful before the Constitutional Court. We'll talk about this in a few months. But what a waste of time on a real essential issue such as access to justice!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u125	Colleagues, this is a legislative proposal. The government may intervene, but it must not, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u126	Mr President, I will not go into the substance of the matter anymore. In committee, with the opinions of the Council of State and the second reading, we have sufficiently ploughed through this matter. It is clear that this is how we implement the coalition agreement. I am very grateful to the N-VA and the other parties of the majority for drawing up this proposal, as agreed in the coalition agreement. I would then like to stress that legal aid insurance will in any case be applied. I'm way ahead of myself with that. Those who are just above the pro-Deo threshold will also have better access to justice in the future. The preliminary draft law on mediation is also ready. That's what's coming. Finally, you know, ladies and gentlemen, that this proposal should be able to go to the Senate for a bit, as regards the section on the Council of State and the Council for Foreign Affairs. The other part will be followed immediately by an implementing act. I therefore hope that we will be able to apply the contribution from 15 April or, at the latest, from 1 May 2017, to help cover the cost of Salduz bis. The Registrys have been and have been prepared as well as possible for a long time. The President : Does anyone else want to speak? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u127	The draft law was split by the committee pursuant to Rule 72 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. The bill has been split by the commission pursuant to Rule 72.2(2) of the Rules of Procedure. We begin with the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 1851/15 (matters referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1851/15) We turn to the articles of Bill No. 1851/15 (matter referred to in article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1851/15) The title was changed by the committee to "legislative proposal to set up a second-line legal assistance budget fund." The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a law establishing a budget fund for second-line legal aid".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u128	No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u129	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We begin with the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 1851/16 (matters referred to in Article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1851/16) We turn to the articles of Bill No. 1851/16 (matter referred to in article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1851/16) The title was changed by the committee to "legislative proposal for the establishment of a second-line legal assistance budget fund for the Council of State and the Foreign Affairs Council." The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a law regulating the establishment of a budgetary fund for second-line legal aid in respect of the Council of State and the Council of the Litigation of Foreigners". The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u130	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u131	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 697: Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot - 734: Sonja Becq, Nahima Lanjri, Nathalie Muylle, Els Van Hoof, Raf Terwingen - 943: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Carina Van Cauter, Ine Somers. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three legislative proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these three bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u132	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Özen, Mr Heer Van Hecke and Mr Brotcorne. They all refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u133	Mr President, the purpose of this bill is to establish a status, essentially at the civil level, of welcoming family members by allowing them to exercise certain attributes of parental authority. These people, who are forced, for various reasons, to take a child into their families, now have a slightly clearer legal framework. However, when it is granted rights to foster families, it goes without saying that this cannot be done at the expense of the parents of origin. It is therefore necessary to strike a balance between the two parties, bearing in mind, of course, the interests of the child, who must take precedence. In this case, this objective is not fully achieved. The proposal lacks any clarification as to the use of certain terms, which, therefore, does not allow sufficient coverage to be given to the rights granted to guests. Similarly, key concepts remain unclear. We pointed it out in committee, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, as we were talking about "daily decisions" which will now be taken by the welcoming family. This concept has not found a definition, just like that of "right of residence" which the latter will exercise. It will be for the case law to determine more precisely what these concepts cover. In addition, the text does not clarify the duties that foster families will have to assume when they enjoy rights with respect to the child. The proposed law also establishes a situation which may trigger a conflict of loyalty between the two families in the child. In committee, we tabled amendments that addressed these concerns, but unfortunately they were wiped out with a back of their hands without any debate being conducted. In the same way, while several actors in the field - in particular the Communities whose powers are relevant to the proposed law - have expressed their wish to be involved in the reflection, this has not been made possible. A whole series of questions are also pending. When a part of parental authority is delegated and certain rights are granted to actors such as the welcoming family, it is not normal for parents of origin to remain entirely responsible for their children. This essential issue goes hand in hand with the status of the family friendly. It is regrettable that the majority did not want to take the trouble to settle it. This is also the case with matters relating to proceedings relating to the litigation of parental authority. They did not find a clear answer. While some professionals in the family care sector admitted that the issue of civil status was not a priority, it was regrettable that few initiatives were being taken by the Government to allow family-friendly children to benefit from a series of specific leave or certain tax benefits for their own children. However, these are aspects that impact the lives of the welcoming, and the majority of them would be well advised to grasp them. I have been told that this would be the case, but it is a shame not to have done so in the context of what we are dealing with today. If, under international law, the removal of a child can only take place as a last resort and this measure must be as temporary as possible, there are circumstances that justify the child being removed from his or her family in order to grow up in a serene and fulfilling universe. It is also regrettable that the majority does not further address the economic and social fragility of families who may sometimes be at the origin of placement. On the contrary, it is known that the explosion of atypical and precarious jobs and the over-flexibility of work are factors that weigh heavily on the lives of families. Structural measures must therefore be put in place to promote the living conditions of the families in which the child will grow up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we can be very pleased that, after decades of discussion, we can finally give foster caregivers a statute that regulates their rights and obligations without compromising the interests of the other stakeholders. The status is extremely important, because we are removing the uncertainty that is still preventing potential foster caregivers from taking care of children who are temporarily unable to live in their own family or independently. For many foster children and foster guests this is a good solution, because in a foster home they find the security, warmth and structure they need for their development. Foster care has increased enormously in recent years. In Flanders, for example, 5 616 children, young people or adults with disabilities live in a foster home alone. Nevertheless, we still cannot respond positively to two out of three questions for a foster family, because there is still a shortage of foster families. Every year, about 500 children or young people do not end up in foster homes. We hope that the statute will make it possible for prospective nursing parents to take on this task. Moreover, despite the fact that they have been caring for a child for a long time, foster care providers today do not have a say in decisions, which often leads to practical problems. It is often advisable for foster care providers to be able to make certain decisions. As has been said, the statute has been mentioned for decades. We have come a long way with this legislative proposal. We submitted it in 2014; we held hearings in Parliament; we obtained opinions; we held a first reading; we obtained the opinion of the Council of State and there was consultation with the Communities. That was necessary, because foster care is, for the most part, the competence of the Communities. Only the statute remains within the competence of the federal level. Moreover, the legislative proposal is in line with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the recommendations of the Council of Europe. I therefore believe that we have worked very thoroughly and that we have finally come to a very balanced whole that takes account of the interests of all the actors involved, both the foster caregivers and the natural parents and the foster children. What does the bill actually change? First, foster parents will be able to make daily decisions from day one and make urgent and necessary decisions, for example about the child's hair cut, sleeping with a companion or an urgent medical operation. Fosterers will be able to decide for themselves. That seems to be an obvious matter. Secondly, from day 1 they will also be able to make agreements with parents in order to exercise more powers, for example regarding the choice of school or the religion of a child. If they do not agree, they may bring an action before the court after having taken care of the foster child for one year and the court will then rule, always in the best interests of the child. We have had a long discussion in Parliament about the competent court. In the end, we reached a compromise and chose to make the family judge competent, because it is the natural judge to judge parental authority. If the juvenile court is asked for youth protection measures, he will judge. Finally, one important point changes with this legislative proposal: a right to personal contact arises when foster care providers have taken care of a foster child for one year, so that contact with the foster child is not interrupted abruptly when the foster care ends. Those very important points can really change the lives of foster children, foster caregivers and natural parents. We have taken a step forward. Our work has indeed not yet been completed, Mrs Özen. For example, we need to introduce foster care leave for parents so that foster care becomes even more attractive. In any case, it is a step in the right direction. I would like to thank everyone from the majority for their constructive cooperation on the legislative proposal. The same applies to all opposition parties who will soon support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u135	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter that has taken the time to mature since his first discussion, since it dates back to March 2015. The status of welcoming family members was a sensitive topic that deserved reflection on the concerns of the actors, associations and entities concerned. A proper balance had to be struck between the interests of the child, the interests of the families of origin and those of the foster families in the context of placement. How can foster parents more easily supervise integrated children at home, make it possible for this integration into the family, which already has its own way of life, to take place while guaranteeing the parents of origin the place which must remain theirs? I think we found that balance. It was recalled that it was also necessary to play with the powers of the Federal State and the Communities. I would like to return to one particular point. An amendment had been tabled and he introduced the idea that, prior to foster care, a dialogue should be held for an agreement to be reached between the parents of origin and the foster family to determine how the parents would exercise their right to personal relations with their child during the placement. It is of course essential that the child maintain this relationship and dialogue with his or her family, which he or she is expected to return to one day. The law that we are going to vote on earlier provides that dialogue must be compulsory, and this must be done by the body responsible for family care. In order to alleviate the unequal nature of this dialogue between people who do not necessarily have the same socio-cultural and financial level - I am thinking here of the placement due to great poverty - ATD Quart Monde drew our attention to the fact that it was essential that parents be supported by a person of trust. Determining how the dialogue will take place in practice and how the parents of origin will be supported are competences of the Communities. This has yet to be realized, but I have no doubt that they will be receptive to these legitimate concerns and that it will be implemented in the most appropriate way. Maintaining contact between parents of origin and their child, according to their real wishes and concrete possibilities, is therefore an essential element that will ensure that the parental bond will not be broken. The MR Group is pleased that this bill finally gives a clear status to welcoming family members, which facilitates the day-to-day management of the family life of welcoming family members or, it should be said, of the welcoming family. We hope that this status will call for other vocations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u136	Mr President, first of all I should like to apologise to Mrs Becq. She was to be present on the Kazachgate Committee of Inquiry. On behalf of our group, I would like to say that we think it is a very balanced proposal, which creates legal certainty for both parents, the foster caregivers and the child itself. The statute for foster care is a good thing. This removes a number of uncertainties. In this way, we hope to draw more prospective foster parents across the line. We call on all the authorities involved to inform everyone about the new legal provisions and, above all, to work on a tailor-made scheme that will benefit the children who are being cared for in a foster home.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u137	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ideally we should not have to approve the proposal. I do not wish to undermine the work done by my fellow Members to come to this text. I mean that ideally there should be no children whose care cannot be guaranteed at home. Unfortunately, young people sometimes find themselves in a difficult educational situation. At that time, care must be sought elsewhere. Fortunately, very often care parents are willing to take care of those children. If I'm properly informed, that's no exception. Unfortunately, in our country, it is about about 5,000 children on average. That's a considerable number. It is certainly not an easy task for care parents to ensure, in consultation with natural parents or not, a good framework for young people who often come from a very difficult situation. A statute has therefore been rightly sought, so that more certainty can be given to those who do not always have an easy task. That question has existed for a long time and has certainly not fallen into deaf ears, not even with our group. I am addressing my colleague, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, who has been around the subject for a long time. She has submitted our bill on several occasions. We have done so again, in good cooperation, this legislature, and together with my fellow Members, we have come to the complete solution that is before us today. We didn't go ice cream in one night. I have just heard Mr Özen say that the definition that we are presenting today and which should bring greater legal certainty would not be clear at all, which is why her group should abstain or even vote against. We'll find out later. I am a little surprised, because in a first move we have tried to draw up a very strict definition, on the one hand the right to material detention and, on the other hand, the right to legal detention. Material preservation comes immediately to the care parents, the legal preservation goes over time, if there is not an immediate view of a return to the natural family, gradually from the natural parents to the care parents. That was a difficult exercise, because when a number of examples are thought of in this case, it turns out that it is not so easy to draw up a strict definition that is applicable in all circumstances. The Council of State also decided not to do so, and so we wisely returned to the situation we know, where natural parents no longer live together but jointly exercise parental authority. As far as the content of the present legislative proposal is concerned, I can agree with the excellent statement already made by my colleague. It's almost like home that we wanted to take care of it. We hope that in many cases the care children will be able to return to that environment very often and hopefully as soon as possible, that there will be contact with parents who have taken care of them for a long time, that everyone will know where to go and that life will be easier for those who come out of a difficult situation thanks to the new legislative text. That's our contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u138	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was only able to attend the hearings, which took place some time ago. Pre-commission meetings were held. My colleague Stefaan Van Hecke has followed this matter well in the Committee on Justice. He has worked well with the members of the Ecolo-Groen Party, so that we can follow and reflect together on this issue. Although I did not participate in the proceedings and was in front of the finished product, I wanted to thank the members of the Justice Committee, who took into account all the testimonies of the representatives of families dispossessed of their rights for some time, representatives of foster families, foster parents, lawyers, etc. You have greatly improved the proposed basic device. We can congratulate the quality of parliamentary work that has been done. There are still questions and difficulties that a federal law will never be able to satisfy. The most fundamental difficulty, which no legal system will ever be able to face, is the child's double loyalty, which is indefatigable first of all vis-à-vis his parents of origin - it is impossible to ask a child to betray his or her family of origin, regardless of its defects - and then for his or her foster family, which allows him or her to live in good conditions. This situation is inevitable. All the measures taken to support these children and families will have to incorporate this complexity in order to alleviate the burden and to respond to the child's rights and quality of life as best as possible. The support of these families of origin is necessary because they are necessarily in a more difficult situation, of weakness, compared to the host family, which is a good family. There are flaws in the family of origin, resulting in the removal of the child's custody, accommodation and upbringing for a period of time. These foster families and families of origin will have to be accompanied even more strongly by bodies approved by the Regions and Communities. On this point, I believe, minister, that your responsibility is great. You must work with the Ministers of the Communities and Regions to ensure this support when the law comes into force. We all have a responsibility to ensure that sufficient resources are made available by the Communities and Regions to support the services which will have to support these families in these difficult situations of negotiation of a convention. This convention, i.e. the interactive definition between the two families of the rights which the host family will be able to assume in place or in consultation with the family of origin, will be of real value only if the two families are able to speak to each other. It may sometimes take several months to achieve this because the injury of being removed from the child is difficult to heal. The question remains of the duration of one or two or three years, after which the absence of an agreement gives the host family the opportunity to acquire a wider range of rights. I know that this is a time of concern for some associations, especially for social workers who work alongside the most fragile, the poorest families, those who have the weakest capacity to be heard or to assume their role. We must keep this question open. I am unable - I think we are all - to say whether a year is too short, whether a period of three years is preferable, too short or too long in view of the situations on the ground. I hope that the effects of this law, its application and the feelings of families can be assessed on a regular basis. If families are properly accompanied, this question should not arise. When we know that part of the success of this legislation depends on the quality of the accompanying legislation, which falls within the jurisdiction of another level of authority, it is difficult to have certainties or requirements at the federal level. Hence the need to work together in the coming months. We will therefore support this law and try to assess its implementation as best we can. Having said that, I cannot help but link here with the need to fight poverty, to fight against the socio-economic fragility of a whole series of families. It is clear that this aspect is not included in the proposed legislation under consideration. Nevertheless, if we participate in the deterioration of the living conditions of the weakest families, some of them will find themselves unable to assume their role. Tax measures, measures relating to availability of time and leave must therefore also be taken to help these families fulfil their role on a daily basis. I therefore hope that this government will agree to complement this system with, of course, much broader social and employment policies. Finally, I have asked a lot about the actors in the sector that I know because, in a previous life, I had the opportunity to associate with the host families. Workers in the family placement sector have informed me that it is important to find and keep foster families once they have agreed to do so, bearing in mind that foster families are now facing increasingly difficult situations because of the deteriorating socio-economic situation of many families of origin. In their view, it would also be interesting to provide a framework for defining the relationship between the two families and the way in which the support or foster care service can be integrated into this relationship. The unequal position between the two families remains to be monitored, but we will not fail to monitor and assess the situation in order to see whether amendments should be introduced into the law. Indeed, a law can always be amended to move towards a better one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u139	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in the same register as we were earlier. Evidence of this is that one can work in the Committee on Justice, by remaining one's own and sometimes asking the right questions. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, for many years we have been trying to find a status for the welcoming family, because they demand a legal status to enable them to live more easily, more serenely the care of the children who are placed at home. For many years, the legislator has looked back and dared not, because the balance is difficult to find between what these foster parents want, the interest of the child concerned by the placement and the need to understand also the interest of the parents of origin (biological parents), while knowing that the purpose of the placement is always the good of the child, with the possibility, if it is in his or her interest, of re-entering his or her family of origin. It is therefore important to be careful because if, in the statutes, the status of persons or the rights that go hand in hand is changed too radically, this can sometimes lead to situations that are not happy. So, yes, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh – I said three times "no" before, so I'm going to try to say three times "yes" now – this text has had a somewhat difficult, somewhat chaotic journey. Let's recognize him! Between the original text and the text on which we are going to agree today, there is a world of difference. I think the authors will recognize it and admit it. We had to be pretty careful at first. We used terms like foster parents. We used terms that no longer had any meaning in our Civil Code, such as "material custody rights", "legal custody rights". The community dimension of the project and the file had been omitted. I think that we have been well inspired to ask for both hearings and, above all, to send the text to the Council of State, since this has enabled us, upon the return of the Council of State, to see a much more acceptable text, much better written, which did the part of the matter between the interests that I have just recalled. This status is indeed expected by the welcoming family. Playing this game means accepting a child who is not his/her own and trying to give him/her the best environment, facing daily difficulties when signing a newsletter, signing his/her agreement for a night at a friend's house or for a trip abroad during a weekend, or registering a child for a holiday internship. If one is systematically stopped by problems of that order, it does not make things easy. The law that we are being proposed today will help to get out of these non-rights situations, simplify procedures, recognize the place of foster parents and make life easier for them, as I said. It is important to recall and clarify in this forum, in the context of our work, that biological parents (of origin), of course, retain the competence to make important decisions relating to health, education, training, leisure and religious or philosophical choices, except, says the statute, in cases of extreme urgency. In this case, there will always be a possibility of recourse to a judge who will assess. The bill also mentions, in its article 387quinquies, and this seems essential to me, the importance of parental authority, respect for the basic principles of education, supervision of the upbringing of their child, and the right, during the placement, of course, to the maintenance of personal relations. What is interesting in the text is that welcoming family members and parents of origin can agree and regulate among themselves all the provisions concerning reception through a convention. The Convention is free, but it is regulated by the bodies responsible for family care. This is the Community dimension we were talking about earlier. This agreement may not exceed the duration of the reception fixed by the placement or reception bodies. It may be approved by the Family Court if necessary. I think that is an excellent provision in the bill. This possibility of agreement promotes communication between families. It is assumed that, if there is better communication, the interests of the child are better served. The intervention of the bodies competent in matters of family care also allows for reassurance as to the supervision of parents who do not always have the capacity to draft such agreements, so that their minimum interests are nevertheless taken into account. On the other hand, like Mrs Gerkens, who has alluded to it at the moment, I have a certain reluctance which I have developed in committee. It was ATD Fourth World youth support professionals and field workers who drew our attention to this situation. Both in the Convention and in the new Article 387octies, there is a question of delegating certain important decisions under parental authority after one year. This hinders practitioners in representative organisations such as ATD Quart Monde. It was difficult to assess whether that delegation should be expanded. We can also be pleased that the text now refers to "delegation" and not "transfer" of parental authority. This terminology is much more appropriate. Can it be considered that after one year of placement, an extension of the scope of jurisdiction or parental authority granted to the foster family can be decided? Do we need a deadline or do we not need one? In committee, I tabled a first amendment to remove the deadline; and then a sub-amendment to set the deadline at three years. This led me to believe that more guarantees were being offered. I will resubmit today – with your group, Mrs Gerkens, if you wish, and I hope, together with other groups as well – the amendment setting the deadline at three years. As I explained in committee, the scope of the provision applies as much to voluntary placement as to placement which can be described as involuntary. The Code and the texts already contain provisions that allow solutions to be found. I shall end by saying that I am voting in favour of this proposal. Let me explain my reasons! The stakes are important. We have spent years finding solutions. The solution is here! I think it is worth trying to explain to all those who still have reservations why, despite these reservations, we will end up voting for the text. In the event of voluntary placement, the foster family can now apply to the Youth Court to determine the extent of its rights to the child. Should there be a deadline? The question is asked. When placement is not voluntary, there is also an opportunity in our current legal arsenal to compensate for the absence of parents of origin. Parental deprivation exists. The more coercive system has the advantage of avoiding a direct confrontation between welcoming parents and the family of origin. The proposed law provides that, in the most serious cases, welcoming family members always have the possibility to apply to a court. In my view, the laws in force and the present text contain tools to extend parental authority after one year. Such an extension would perhaps allow some to appreciate our present work to its full value. I come to my second fear. Despite the improvement of the text, which was allowed by the discussions in committee, recourse to the judge – whether it is the family court or the youth court – may be a little too simple. A greater judicialization of some cases is not always the best formula. In short, we will see what will emerge from the application of the law and, if so, from its evaluation. Finally, I will address the responsibility of parents, which is referred to in article 184 of the Civil Code. You don't mind me, minister, but that's the one. In committee, I have indicated in the form of an endade that we often say to the most disadvantaged families, who are not in a position – at least temporarily – to educate their child properly and who must sometimes resolve to place them, that they are deprived of certain attributes of parental authority while remaining responsible for their child if the child commits a stupid act. They are therefore advised to ensure, to the extent of their possibilities, that they continue to be held accountable for the actions of their child. I felt that such an attitude was not very consistent or very normal. I therefore consider that, for the temporary duration of the placement, responsibility should be shifted to the foster parent in order to clarify this situation. The minister's representative then told us that such an eventuality would be or was the subject of broader negotiation. I therefore note that the slight reticence which I still feel when reading the text can therefore be avoided. Despite these small reservations and thanks, above all, to the evolution of the text, to the balance, even imperfect between the well-understood interests of the child, the parents and the welcoming family, our group will vote for this text. He is also delighted to facilitate the lives of families who offer hospitality, love, time, energy and finance to children in difficulty. Nevertheless, it must be borne in mind that the ultimate goal is always that this child can regain his or her original family environment. We will therefore vote on the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u140	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse and I will vote for this bill. I would like to congratulate those who have taken the initiative and contributed to its drafting and completion, which takes into account not only the opinions of the Council of State but also the professional circles concerned, including the family care partners in the various Communities. Like what, as has already been said, when Parliament bothers to follow those who bring real expertise, legislative work can be of quality. I am quite satisfied with the name given to the families who will welcome. The term "nursing parents" was avoided, although the intention was laudable and honoured the foster families. This is a step forward of a very great modernity. You have responded to a Council of Europe recommendation that a legal status be drawn up for foster families. As regards the recognition of the social, emotional and economic role of foster families, this is a major innovation. I therefore sincerely congratulate the authors and all those who have contributed to the development of this bill. It is all the more interesting because you have been able to go beyond what, unfortunately, too often characterizes relations between parents and foster families, i.e. a conflicting conception of relationships. Too often, professional intermediaries had to play the role of conciliators. Of course, their role should not be excluded, on the contrary – you have acknowledged the need to involve them in the elaboration of an agreement between parents and the foster family – but you have clearly promoted consultation, mediation, participation, understanding and, finally, the conclusion of an agreement between parents and foster families. It is all the more interesting that this completely changes – and this may change other institutions, such as adoption – the relationship between biological families and protective families the time required for their intervention. I believe that this opens up a very interesting reflection on the complementarity that is beneficial to the protection and interest of the child among those who must be partners. This notion of conventional partnership seems essential to me in the mechanism that you have developed. I welcome this because I believe it will open up new perspectives in the relationships between the multiple partners that surround a child in exceptional circumstances, when he or she cannot rely solely on his or her biological family for his or her education and personal development. I have a regret, but it may have been debated in committee and I did not read the report properly. Rather, I was in favour of the obligation to submit the agreement for approval to the court. First of all, because I believe that this would have created a case law that would have been very useful in developing this conventional relationship between parents and family friendly people and that it would have guided the work of specialists and lawyers or other stakeholders who should guide parents. It would also have provided legal certainty and possibly avoided controversies in the implementation of the convention, since the court could sometimes re-qualify terms or provide useful clarification. Experience may lead us to reconsider some aspects. Tax implications were not addressed in this bill. By the way, this is a real project because a new balance has to be found in terms of obligations and tax deductibility according to the relationship of responsibilities or interventions between parents and family friendly people. Honestly, I am very much impressed by this legislative progress which seems to me to be totally innovative in our family law and which will certainly be the subject of very thorough studies by specialists in this field. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is desirable to make a small legal correction. That will be my modest contribution to the development of this proposal. In the articles of the proposal, articles 1250ter/4 and 1250ter/6, e.g. in article 8, are referred to each time for the approval of conventions in the family court. On the other hand, article 9, paragraph 2, refers to article 1353ter/6 of the Judicial Code. There is no article 1353ter/6. That's article 1253ter/6. This is a small mistake, but this correction should be made in order to ensure the consistency of the legislative text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u141	Thank you, Mr. Maingain. May I ask you to convey to us the legal correction that you are talking about, so that we can be sure? [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u142	Mr President, I will be brief. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation of this bill. It is very happy that the House is voting today. I would like to make three points. First, the definition of rights is not entirely explicit. However, I believe that the Council of State has justified the undefined nature of the rights on the basis of the assessment to be given to the judge; this answers Mrs Özen's question. Secondly, the Communities played an important part in the preparation of this bill. Several meetings were held at the Justice Office on the subject. It is important to stress this, as it is important to say that the purpose of this whole project is to return to the family of origin. However, this return to the family of origin and the manner in which it should be realized are within the competence of the executive authority. In this context, I can only stress the importance of the work of the Communities in the implementation of this law. Thirdly, the law of responsibility is important but, for the time being, we have preferred not to insist on this point inasmuch as it calls for a comprehensive debate which should be conducted in the context of the re-consolidation of the law of responsibility. Before concluding, I would like to stress that I very much appreciate this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u143	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u144	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (697/12) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (697/12) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the legislation establishing a statute for foster care providers." The title has been amended by the committee to propose a law amending the legislation with a view to establishing a statute for welcoming family members". The bill has 23 articles. The bill has 23 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u145	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u146	Sustained: the vote on the amendment and Rule 10. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 9, 11 to 23, with an improvement on Article 9.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u147	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u148	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Vercamer, Mrs Fonck et Mme de Coster.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u149	Mr President, we agreed to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u150	Mr President, Minister, we have discussed this draft law in committee for a very long time. Today we approve the adaptation to the 1996 Law on the wage standard. The aim of the law is to safeguard our competitive position vis-à-vis our main trading partners. In an open economy like ours, it is important to remain competitive. We all know that the labour cost handicap destroys a lot of jobs. This government has already taken many measures to improve our competitiveness and to make work more attractive. The burden on labour was reduced, both for employers and employees. The labour cost handicap that has been built up since 1996 has been eliminated. The impact is very high, as the National Bank has calculated that around 41 000 jobs have been added in 2015. In 2016, there were even 59 000. The forecasts indicate that job growth may increase in the coming years, if we pursue the policy pursued. It is important that it is not about jobs in the public sector, but mainly about new private jobs. In the context of this draft law, it is important that we ensure that we do not allow the efforts made to be destroyed by the inadequate functioning of the 1996 law. The most important adaptation to the 1996 law in the current draft law is the introduction of a correction and sanctioning mechanism. Any false forecasts of inflation or the evolution of labour costs in our neighbouring countries can now be corrected. Those who do not respect the 1996 law can also be sanctioned in the future. We also note in this draft law that the reductions in charges that we have made during this period of government are not being offset. Finally, we are putting in place a mechanism to remove the historical labour cost handicap that existed before 1996. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this bill is an insurance policy for our labour market. It supports job creation. We should be proud of the hundreds of thousands of jobs that have been added since 2015. With this draft law, we will ensure that about one hundred thousand jobs can be added in the coming years. That is why the N-VA Group fully supports this draft law. We call on all parties in the hemisphere to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u151	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I speak about the project itself, I think it is important to recall some elements of context. First of all, the wage gap, because that is what we are talking about in this bill and this bill to reform the 1996 Act. The wage gap, accumulated since 1996, with our neighbouring countries has been eliminated. That has been said in our committee discussions. It was removed last year, well before the end of the legislature, and to do so, your government used harsh measures. There was a wage freeze for two years and there was an index jump as well. It is important to remember this because it hurt people. The purchasing power of workers has been significantly reduced by these measures. And there are other measures that could be added, particularly those relating to excise duties and VAT, but that is out of this context. It really hurt the citizens. And who took advantage of that index jump and the wage freeze? In fact, it was the employers who benefited most. This is the first element of context. A second element – we don't talk about it often, we don't talk about it enough unfortunately – is the productivity of our workers. The Belgian worker is one of the most productive in the world. We do not talk about it and we do not include it in the reflection, whereas it is an important element of competitiveness and comparison with neighbouring countries. The third point, which was also referred to in committee, is that the 1996 law pursues a specific objective, namely to preserve our competitiveness by ensuring that Belgian wages do not increase faster than those of our main trading partners, namely Germany, France and the Netherlands. When this law was passed in 1996, it was said that this should not be done at any cost. Two important guarantees have been put in place. The first is the respect for automatic wage indexation, which is often attacked by your right-wing government; the second is the calculation of the wage gap which was to take place only from 1996. These two elements came from the negotiation and ensured the balance of the 1996 Act. Everyone agreed not to go any further. I note that this is being called into question and we will address this point. Mr Minister, as I have already said, the wage gap with neighbouring countries is being eliminated. After these years of effort, it was expected that the government would let the workers regain some purchasing power. But you decided to impose a new diet on them. With your project, you come out of your hat what you call the historical gap and you tell us that it is a modernization of the law. I think it's enough to call things by their name. It is not a modernization, but simply a request from the employer, which you copy and paste into your bill. The FEB has been asking for this for years. You're gonna do it. Let me remind you that the FEB figures this historical handicap at 10%. It is even you who have confirmed this to me on several occasions in committee. Therefore, the absorber would be equivalent to five index jumps, a loss of several hundred euros per year for workers. This is totally unacceptable to us. In relation to this historical gap, you never wanted to answer my questions clearly in committee. I asked you for your estimate of the historical gap. You sent the hot potato back to the social partners. In your opinion, it will be defined by the social partners in the Central Economic Council. Then you told us that the FEB estimates it to be 10%. You also said that workers' representatives estimate it to be 0.1%. So we already see the difficulties point. How will they agree if one says 10% and the other, almost zero? The fork is large and it is a fork whose impact on wages is enormous, I have just mentioned: the equivalent of five index jumps. I think it makes sense to ask you how you're going to do it if they don't agree. Have you ever thought about a methodology? Do you have an opinion on what is the reality of this historical gap? It is said to be a historical gap, which is estimated in addition in a global and linear way, all sectors combined. And we know that there is a great disparity from one sector to another, it is also a weakness of this bill. We know that if the social partners do not agree, the government will have to decide. So I have the opportunity here to rest my question. If the government is actually going to have to decide, can you tell us what your estimate of the historical handicap is? Can you at least give us a more precise range than zero to ten? Is it zero to five, three to six, two to four? What methodology will you follow? As Minister of Employment and the Economy, you should give us an indication of the direction the government will take, as this will have too much impact on the wages of our workers. It is therefore important that you clarify this element.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u152	In my opinion, there will be no answer, which is not surprising. And anyway, if there was an answer, we don't know how long it would last. I would remind you, however, that a few months ago the Deputy Prime Minister said that there was no longer any differential and that what existed before 1996 was no longer taken into account. I guess in the meantime, he went back to the government where he was told, "Now you take pre-1996 account." And Mr. Peeters to come and tell us: "Oh, it's true that I said it was over. But now we're going to do that." So it would not be surprising if he told you that it was 1% or 2%, he would come back, after a little ride by the government, to say, "My colleagues are no longer in agreement with me." That's exactly what we see with Mrs. De Block. She says something here; she returns to the government and then she has to come and say the opposite, because there was a political discussion. I think, unfortunately, you must not have too much hope, Mr. Daerden. It's the N-VA that makes the law!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u153	Thank you for this intervention which allows me to bounce back on another element that I was going to address: wage indexation and baraemic increases. Again, we have a promise. This promise is: "We will not touch it; it is provided for by the law."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u154	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u155	Mr. Daerden, please continue. Don't let it influence you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u156	Thank you, Mr. President, for getting me back on track. This is obviously a fundamental theme, which is provided for in the law. I have had the opportunity to ask you about this in committee, Mr Minister, both at the first and second reading of the text by asking you whether you can assure us that these two fundamental elements will not be affected. Of course you said yes. But be careful, the law provides that if the wage gap, which would have been created despite the law, is not resolved within two years, the government can take action. That's what's planned. These measures don't know how to get out of nowhere. It is in particular on these issues that you could be forced to work and therefore to punish workers again. You may be in good faith when you say you won't touch the index anymore. But I have the same fears as my group leader, because sometimes you have to give in to your government partners. At this level too, the legislative breach is therefore open for new index jumps in the future. That is why, together with my colleague Ahmed Laaouej, I launched a petition to put automatic wage indexation in the Constitution. I wanted to call him back here. I invite you to sign it. Minister, I fear that the final outcome of this bill will once again put every effort on the workers. While the wage gap is being addressed, the government is changing the rules of the game and fundamentally questioning the initial balance of the law by planning to close the historical gap as well. The bill also provides that reductions in employers' social contributions will not, in the future, lead to wage increases. We will therefore act as if these gifts to employers had never been granted. It must be said that the tax shift will not increase the purchasing power of workers and will benefit only employers, which is totally unacceptable. Competitiveness at all costs is not desirable, let alone if it is at the expense of the wage level of our workers. Even the European Commission and the ILO say that wages must be raised in our economy if we are to hope for a recovery. Minister, there is still much to be said about this project, which we have had the opportunity to discuss at length in committee, given its importance and the impact it will have on workers' wages. Minister, as you have understood, we cannot support your project, which affects the purchasing power, the wage that determines living conditions, the quality of life, housing, the type of goods, services or leisure that we can afford, the security of life of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u157	Mr Daerden, two points surprise me in your speech. During the Di Rupo government, in which we were together, why did we limit wage increases to 0% for two years. It is very clear: there was a wage disadvantage vis-à-vis foreigners, our close neighbours, here in Europe. You're talking about gifts to the bosses, about social security contributions. It was under the Di Rupo government that we had already decided to reduce social contributions, by three tranches a year, for more than EUR 1 billion. Then would you have been wrong three years ago? Have you changed your mind? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u158	Thank you for both questions. As I said in the introduction, the gap is cleared, the mission is fulfilled. With respect to the issue of gifts to the bosses and the reduction in contributions, the problem is that your bill does not take them into account when calculating the margin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u159	Your party had called for an index jump to horn and scream under the former legislature. We refused it. We said clearly, "No!" There is a fundamental difference between an index jump and a non-increase in wages. Indeed, this non-increase still allows indexing and baraemic evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u160	It's the same result...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u161	It's not the same result or you don't understand the index jump mechanics! An index jump is punctuating money to the workers. They are entitled to an evolution and they do not benefit from it. It's a salary theft. The non-increase within the framework of an interprofessional agreement is to give the due, i.e. indexation and baraemic developments, but not for a moment to go further in the context of work to compare wages with our partner countries. So it's fundamentally different: on the one hand there's a flight, on the other there's a flight.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u162	Mr. Daerden, were you done?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u163	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u164	The minister wishes to speak. I remind anyone who wants to hear it that, in order to speak, they have to ask me. Minister, you asked me, you have it. That's the least I can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the index jump was already discussed a great deal when it was decided. I spent 40 hours in committee together with many colleagues to respond to all the questions. I understand the views of one and the other, but I would like to continue this debate with figures. In 2008, the labour cost handicap was 4.8 %, the largest labour cost handicap since 1996. It is true that the previous government has worked on this: 4.4 % in 2009, 4.2 % in 2010, 4.2 % in 2011 and 3.9 % in 2012. In 2014, the labour cost handicap was still 3%. It has been an important effort, from 4.8 to 3% during the previous reign. The current government has reduced labour costs from 3% to 0%. At the start of this government there was still a labour cost handicap of about 3%. That rift is now closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u166	Deputy Prime Minister, so that we don't pretend: "A little effort has been made before and we are making a big effort." However, it will be explained that the comparison is also made on the basis of wage developments in the partner countries. And, of course, some of the other partner countries have released wages much more, thereby reducing the wage disadvantage. I am talking about Germany and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u167	Mr President, I would like to conclude my speech. As I said before this exchange, we cannot accept this project, which represents a setback for the workers in this country. We have tabled amendments again because we are convinced of the negative effects of this text, which is improved. We tabled it at first reading, at second reading, and here we have some fundamental amendments, in particular to remove the references to taking account of the historical gap which we feel is totally unfair. The inclusion of all wage subsidies is fundamental in terms of social justice. Amendments are also intended to prevent the government from taking additional measures, which could go as far as new index jumps. As I said earlier, there is so much diversity in terms of the wage gap between different sectors in relation to our neighbouring countries that a linear vision and mandatory application in the sectors of the margin which is determined at sectoral level is inappropriate and not economically appropriate. An amendment is intended to allow sectors to integrate their specific wage characteristics. There is also a need to make real room for consultation. I have not developed it in my speech, but without question, with this reform, with this pseudo-modernisation, it is once again a step backwards for social consultation. Finally, by way of amendments, we want to lay down practical rules to extend moderation to other incomes. It's theoretically provided for in the law. These amendments would make the 1996 Act more relevant and balanced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u168	Madam de Coster-Bauchau, you have the floor. Colleagues, I ask all of you to respect the speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u169	Mr President, Mr Daerden, you will not be surprised that before I talk about reform, I would like to mention some small factual details. I would like to remind you that in October 2012, the government of which you were a member mandated the Central Economic Council to establish the level of wage disability that our country had accumulated in relation to neighbouring countries. The report which he published at the end of the same year considered that a wage handicap had indeed been found since the entry into force of the 1996 Act, which, however, was intended to safeguard the competitiveness of our enterprises. In concrete terms, this means that the average hourly cost – because that's what we need to talk about – of a worker in Belgium was €39.6 in 2010, while the weighted average of the three neighbouring countries was €34. Therefore, the government at the time, as you recalled, took several steps. That means you were well aware that there was a problem. So you've made arrangements to avoid the ups and downs of wages. Little reminder, our disability...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u170	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u171	May I continue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u172	We respect the speaker or we ask for the floor if we wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. [[As a reminder, our wage disadvantage in 2013 was 4.1%, according to the National Bank of Belgium and the Central Economic Council.]] For the measures taken by the Di Rupo government, I would also point out that he had taken the revision of the housewife's basket in January 2014. You don't call it an index jump, but it's almost the same thing! In addition, the evolution of the wage margin was reduced to zero. Let me come back to these points later. At the end of 2014, the hourly wage was EUR 39 in Belgium, compared with EUR 31.4 in Germany, EUR 33.9 in the Netherlands and EUR 36.2 in Luxembourg. The difference from our neighbors remains too high. The Michel government has therefore decided to rely on the competitiveness of our companies to re-boost our economy and thus support our jobs, and then ensure the sustainability of our social security system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u174	We have the impression that the speaker is calling us by saying, "But, at last, you had acted." Yes, we did. We are not irresponsible. Madam, when you quote these figures, you must also say that they were not accepted by everyone. This depends in particular on whether or not wage subsidies are taken into account. In this respect, there were differences between us, which you have just decided in a way that is particularly unfavourable to employees. There is indeed the differential that you quote in the report of the Central Economic Council. But you should be aware that these figures were disputed, because they were determined on the basis of the subsidies granted or not in wage subsidies and of what the government recognizes or does not recognize as such. These are figures that must be handled with caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u175	Mrs Onkelinx, I would like to hear you, but I am basing myself on figures which are not the result of personal elucidation but which are quoted by the Central Economic Council. You referred to it as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u176	I am simply saying that when the Central Economic Council is mentioned, it must be mentioned in full, particularly when it refers to the difficulty of establishing a wage handicap. He has established it since 1996, but you also refer to the period before 1996. However, the Council set it up with tweezers saying that "it depends on what you take as wage subsidies or not." For the rest, we have always relied on the work of the Central Economic Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u177	Thank you, ma'am. I said that the government has a real will to reduce the cost of employment, which it has made its battlehorse. Yes, Mr. President, we had to make choices that were not always easy. We had to perform a unique index jump. We also allowed for an increase in the wage margin of 0.8% over the 2015-2016 period. You'll tell me it's not much, but it's always better than zero! With the tax shift, we have also made it possible to significantly reduce the burden on employment: I am thinking of the reductions in contributions and the zero contribution measure for the first job. No, they're not gifts to the bosses! I'm insurgent against this kind of all-made theory! I would still like to point out that if there were no employers, there would be no jobs. Is that simple enough? I can't agree with what you're implying: that all the bosses would be venal... [[Brouhahaha]] Let me finish! That all the bosses would be there just to put money in their pockets. No, no and no!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u178	Mr President, in support of what Mrs de Coster is saying, and in refuting the words of the PS, who always wants to charge the employer, I would like to say that the boss is in general much closer to his staff than the PS's elected representatives are to the workers' world.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u179	I ask that a general debate not be relaunched and that we remain focused on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u180	Mr President, you will understand that, as a daughter of workers, I want to intervene following these rude statements, let me tell you that! At no time do we consider the employer as a potential operator in principle. I don't know if other parties do, but we don't. We know that we need people who invest, who take risks, who dare; as they need workers, and if possible skilled workers, workers who "love", workers who are respected, trained and paid properly. That's what we're saying. And ma'am, what's unbearable is that you say in the gallery: "I'm tired of you considering employers as well." But no one says that! Moreover, the cuts in social contributions, particularly for the self-employed, we voted for them. We are in opposition, but we have voted for them, because we believe that these are good measures. You mustn't say anything! Simply put, if we prefer, like the Plan Office, the Central Economic Council, the National Bank, always to grant these reliefs, we must condition them as much as possible to employment, i.e. to increase the employment rate – which you do as little as possible. The consequences for social security must also be examined. Indeed, we are going to face a major problem, since you are reducing social contributions without providing for alternative financing of social security. And Mrs De Block will come back here to tell us that there is not enough revenue and that there is still a need for shadow cuts in social security and health care. That's what we're saying!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u181	Mr President, I repeat my speech. Of course, all this has already borne fruit, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, what has been found? That our wage disadvantage has gradually diminished. As the Minister said, it increased from 2.9% in 2014, to 1.5% in 2015 and to -0.3% in 2016. So our companies have become competitive again. From that point on, we can make further observations. Unemployment has never been so low in 25 years (8.6%). Business creation has not seen better performance in 10 years. The number of bankruptcies has also decreased. A single flat: the employment rate is still too far from the objectives that Belgium has set itself. But you know as well as I do that there are other things that matter. What counts, colleagues, is the 105,000 jobs that were created during the 2015-16 period, as the NCI specifically demonstrated on December 16th. Thus, 105,000 people who were, perhaps, unemployed finally found a job. As a result, their purchasing power has improved significantly. Colleagues, employment is the great winner of any form of support for the competitiveness of our companies. After implementing a series of reforms, the government therefore decided to reform the labour market from three angles. And the bill before you today is one of those three pillars. I have heard some ask the question of the need to reform if disability is removed. Today, disability is effectively eliminated, but the date for safeguarding competitiveness is over 20 years old. Moreover, its existence has not prevented some slippage over the years. The minister therefore felt, together with the government, that it was time to see her again. I would also point out that this is a recommendation of the European Commission, so that our wages continue to evolve in parallel with productivity. Reform of the 1996 Act, as presented to us, changes the formula used in wage bargaining. It has already been used, and now we are going to use other economic indicators to achieve our forecasts than those of the OECD. A safety margin is set or buffer in the order of 25%. If a competitiveness bonus is observed, half will be transferred and returned to the resorption of the historical handicap and the other half will be returned to the worker as part of the margin assessment. And if, on the contrary, a wage handicap is found again, new measures will be taken to remove it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u182	Madam, are you committing yourself, in this gallery, on behalf of the MR, not to make any more index jumps by the end of the legislature? Can you make this commitment formally before Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u183	You're asking me that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u184	You're in the gallery, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u185	You're in the government. Your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u186	I'm not in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u187	Your party is in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u188	Yeah, but I'm not in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u189	Since you are speaking to the MR group on the 1996 law reform issue, do you, yes or no, make a formal commitment not to make an index jump by the end of the legislature? It's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u190	The question is asked; it is clear. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u191	Yes, of course! Are you happy? I simply answered you a word: Yes! All right?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u192	The answer is given. Go on, please. Calm down, on the benches of the MR group!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u193	This new form of calculation must indeed enable the Central Economic Council to set as realistic a range of wage developments as possible and it will be this range which will be used by the actors of the social concertation to fix this wage margin by common agreement for the following period. This new formula had already worked well. The social partners have been able to work on this model in recent weeks. The range was between 0.9% and 1.2%. The agreement was set at a wage margin of 1.1% over the next two years. The social partners have managed to agree on a common objective. We have not seen and had such a consensus for more than ten years in Belgium. There is always a place for consultation in Belgium. We are sensitive to it and we find it important to respect it. In conclusion, the 1996 law, under its new version, will guarantee this role of social consultation, will protect the purchasing power of workers, will ensure the prosperity and revalorisation of the wages of our workers, will maintain and strengthen the competitiveness of our enterprises, and of course will support employment. Without calling into question the principle of automatic wage indexation, we have found a balance thanks to this project. Chairperson: Siegfried Bracke, Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u194	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that today we in this Chamber will adopt the new wage standard law, the amendment of the 1996 law. The previous law was the reference for wage formation in this country for 20 years. This law, too, will apparently remain controversial when I hear it like the previous one. In the meantime, however, there has already been a consensus that a balance between the wage evolution and the competitiveness of enterprises is essential for our economy and for employment, job creation. The most important news is that the adoption of this law has already taken place informally in the facts, on the ground. On 2 February this year, all employers' organisations and all trade unions concluded an interprofessional agreement for this year and for next year. That, ladies and gentlemen, goes beyond the debate we are having here today. The social partners, and we are now discussing both the leftist trade union and all employers' organizations, have managed to reach an agreement on the basis of these texts even before the real entry into force of the law in the Group of Ten. This shows that this law provides a good framework for reaching agreements. In any case, it is a positive signal that social dialogue has been given a new impetus. It's been different once. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the trade unions and employers once again. However, it takes some courage to conclude an agreement without a legislative text, on the basis of the agreements included in this wage standard law. Some important issues have been agreed in this IPA which are directly or indirectly related to people's income, for example the distribution of welfare envelopes for the lowest benefits. But I will not elaborate on that today. The most direct effect of this adjusted wage standard law will primarily be felt in the wage margin for the years 2017 and 2018. Wages will be able to rise by 4%, due to wage margins and inflation together. Moreover, this will be possible without compromising the competitiveness of our companies. The second pillar of this law is therefore the maintenance of competitiveness. That too is important, because competitive companies, whether they like it or not, create jobs. That engine's been hit. Mr Jan Spooren has already referred to this with a number of figures. I would like to refer to the Planning Bureau, which predicts 230 000 jobs for the period 2016-2021. Every new job also means extra purchasing power for every family. It is therefore a question of strengthening purchasing power and of strengthening the competitiveness of our companies. A third element of the law is that of the cautious family father. A safety margin will be built in to monitor labour costs in order to ensure that people's efforts are not lost. We could discuss whether it is necessary to go back to this for more than 20 years, until before 1996. It is also possible to discuss the size and what should be taken into account. In any case, this law provides a framework for the social partners to discuss this and to make the right decisions in certain situations. Not only does the law provide for that caution. If competitiveness remains within the guaranteed safe margins and if there is no need to appeal to the facilities, they will return to the families as an additional purchasing power. The present draft law therefore provides a good framework to maintain the balance between strengthening purchasing power and strengthening our companies. This will stimulate job creation and strengthen people's purchasing power. As we all know, purchasing power is also important for stimulating the economy. Another element which I would like to stress on behalf of our group is that there is absolutely no interference with the automatic indexation of wages, which guarantees the prosperity of workers' incomes, including for the future. I would like to point out a few other measures, in addition to this wage standard law, which, together with that law, form a coherent whole to strengthen both purchasing power and job creation. The tax shift reduces labour costs and strengthens job creation together with the wage standard law. The same applies to purchasing power, with various measures, such as the increase in the wage bill, increasing net wages and, in particular, lower wages. I will conclude my speech with what I started. The balance that can be achieved within the framework of the new wage standard law has already been found for the first time by the Group of Ten. There will be additional purchasing power for workers, growth will not be affected and our businesses will be strengthened. In fact, the social partners have already complied with the context of this new wage standard law. However, loyalty, commitment and good agreements cannot come from one side. The government has therefore taken the only good decision to take over the commitments of the Group of Ten in their entirety and to put its own standard wage law into practice immediately. On the ground, we are now waiting with great impatience to start the urgent concrete wage negotiations. It is therefore time that we passed this law. At least you have our support for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u195	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to repeat too much, because the majority of my fellow Members have delivered the same message. We have already had a fairly animated debate on the French-speaking side. Everyone knows the history of this law. In 2008, we had a labour cost handicap in our country of 4.8 %, built up since 1996. As the Minister has just explained, we have taken a number of difficult measures, including those on the socialist side, under the previous government with the parties that were the majority at the time, to reduce labour costs. That was the basic calculation of the CRB at that time, whereby we obliged the social partners, with some social protest, to allow no or only very limited wage increases under inter-professional agreements for two years and even a longer period. The only reason for this was the same as why this law is before us today, namely the derailment of our labour costs compared to our main trading partners. These measures were sometimes painful, I think of the index jump. You know that, indeed, that was not obvious to defend. Unfortunately, these have been necessary measures to reduce labour costs. Yes, we are ready today. The labour cost handicap since 1996 has been effectively eliminated. We took care of that together. We still have a historical handicap. The calculation of this is discussed between employers' and employees' organizations. However, the handicap has been removed since 1996, and that is good. That's a good result. Now it is really a question of achieving two things. Firstly, we must not go back into that situation. Mr Vercamer has also explained this. This law introduced the principle of caution to ensure that this derailment does not occur again. Secondly, we still have to make some effort for the historic labour cost handicap that existed before. The fact that such a policy pays off does not mean that there is no doubt about it. Employment increased by almost 100 000 units according to the National Bank's figures. That is a fantastic result, Minister of Labour, almost a hundred thousand jobs in it. Another 120 000 additional jobs are expected in the next three years. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you have been filling in on the difficult and courageous measures that have been taken, but the result is that a 200 000 people will have a job that did not have one before or that would not have had one under unchanged policies, Mrs Temmerman. Unfortunately for you, that is the result of the policy. The numbers are the numbers. Job growth is good. To this end, we must ensure that we remain competitive, albeit not with China. In fact, I heard Mr Gilkinet say again in committee what should ultimately be the end result, in order to compete with China. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not what this is about. It is about keeping within an acceptable margin vis-à-vis the Netherlands, Germany, France and the neighbouring countries, which are those with whom we compete directly. When a foreign investor has to choose whether to place his company in Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany or France, we prefer not to be in a situation with a disability of 5%, which means that no one comes here. The current government succeeds. The draft law before us also sets that out in a good way. The draft law stipulates that in future we will build in a kind of margin of caution which can be returned to the social partners after two years, which can then decide to continue using half of that margin. That margin of caution is there as a precaution not to end up again with a handicap. In this prudent and coherent way, we will manage to control our wage costs and provide jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want social security, we must have those jobs in order to be able to collect income. Mrs Onkelinx, it is only then and not the other way round that social security can be financed. This is therefore a fair solution, which our group can defend. Mr Vercamer has already indicated that part of the debate has also been absorbed by the social partners. After all, an interprofessional agreement was concluded at the beginning of February 2017 on the basis of those principles. I recall that a number of social partners were very critical a few months earlier and felt that the new law would not provide for an increase in wages, which was not the case in the end on the basis of the CRB's calculations. In the coming years, we can expect a significant increase in the wage margin, which is good for purchasing power, social security and government finances. Despite the more cautious legal framework for future wage increases, we are therefore seeing wage increases in our country over the next two years. This draft law deserves full support on behalf of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u196	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we agree with the need to pursue an appropriate policy based on the assessment of labour costs in neighbouring countries and on the need to monitor the evolution of labour costs properly in order to avoid derailment. If we find that the labour cost handicap for the three neighbouring countries has been fully eliminated today, it is also due to the fact that both the social partners and successive governments have pursued a conscious labour cost policy. However, let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that this is partly due to the fact that in Germany we have finally woken up, that the mini-jobs are unfair and unfair and that the minimum wage has been introduced there. I would also like to point out that since the introduction of the law of 1996 on conventional wages, the margin agreed by the social partners in sectoral wage agreements has always been respected. Those who do not believe this, I would like to refer to the technical reports of the Central Council for Business, as my fellow Members have pointed out to me. If there were any derailments, this was always due to an incorrect assessment of expected inflation or of expected developments in neighbouring countries. A law that allows for shorter playing on the ball and for corrections to be made in time could certainly receive our support, especially if that were to avoid drastic intervention as an index jump, as the government has done. However, what is on the table today is in many ways a means of preventing serious wage increases over the longer term. The main objection we have to this is that the wage standard law no longer only looks at the labour cost evolution since 1996, but that a historical wage handicap is now being lifted. The additional RSZ discounts under the tax shift do not count and at least 50% of the future RSZ discounts will be neutralized. Direct wage costs subsidies, as the previous colleagues have said, are also not taken into account in the labour cost evolution, which, in our view, is a distorted picture of the labour cost handicap. Moreover, at least half of the possible negative labour costs handicap vis-à-vis neighbouring countries since 1996 has also been removed immediately in order to contribute to the elimination of this so-called historic labour cost handicap. Minister, you have suddenly taken into account, creatively, a historical labour cost handicap, but you did not have the guts to determine how big it is. You say that this is the job of the social partners. They're just gonna have to get out. In the hearings in committee, the employers immediately stated that this handicap is at least 10%, while the technical sheet of the Central Council for Business in early 2016 shows that the difference in wage costs with the three neighbouring countries is already nil in 2014, if production differences are also taken into account. In addition, the wage margin will now be strictly binding, even if the social partners have reached agreement on it. It removes every negotiating area in the sector and only allows negotiations to go below the margin. However, the social partners have always taken account of margins for conventional wages in the past. I am also deeply concerned about the passage in the draft law that if all the correction factors that are now being introduced are not enough to eliminate the labour cost handicap within an IPA period since 1996, the government will not but will not take additional measures. This will pave the way for a new index jump, Minister. Our country remains an absolute leader in inflation. We owe this inflation to the government's measures. Inflation is creating a further wage handicap, for which the previous speakers have already warned. During the committee, we quoted extensively from the laundry list of national and international reports and reports, all of which indicate that the driving force behind high inflation is government measures, which raise the costs for families, and that inflation is only partly the result of indexation. Instead of remedying the real cause, now open the door for a new index jump. Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, you have stated that for the MR a new index jump is no longer applicable to this government. You said in your election promise that you would not raise the retirement age. The retirement age has been increased. Today there was a debate about the equivalent period for runways. One wouldn't get there. That promise wasn't worth much either. I am therefore sorry that the promise you make here that there will be no new index jump is not enough for us. The draft law puts us partly openly, but also partly through secret loopholes, on the path of austerity policy, a austerity policy for those who have to live on a wage for which they work, while the recipients of dividends are not asked for proportionate efforts to invest part of their huge profits in innovation and training. However, these factors are just as important when it comes to the competitiveness of our companies vis-à-vis the other countries. Finally, I would like to say two more things in this context. Firstly, we all agree that wage costs must be controlled. This must be done first and foremost by reducing the burden on labour rather than by reducing wages themselves. After the index jump, it is now the second time that the government has dealt with employees' wages itself. Even now, it's the ordinary people who have to pay. Secondly, today is another typical day for the government, a day of injustice. On the same day that people's wages are reduced, the added value tax is being postponed. The great abilities can be reassured, while the workers who work hard for their wages are worried. That is why our group will vote against the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u197	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a few points from our reading of this draft law. Firstly, to be honest, this monstrosity of a text replaces a previous legal text that may not have been perfect and certainly could be improved, but it did achieve its objective. The 1996 law is explained in five minutes at a café to someone who is interested: wages in our country should not increase more than we expect on average in our neighbouring countries over the next two years, and that is to maintain the competitiveness of our companies and thus get more people to work. As the draft law now stands, I can't explain it at all at cafés or other forums. To be honest, this goes against the principle of legislative hygiene. A law must ultimately be understood by the citizens. This text does the opposite. He replaces a clear law by understanding a not very well, let alone explaining a piece of legislation. The social partners have so far been able to prevent wage slippages in relation to neighbouring countries through the application of the 1996 law. Even the government's stated objective, namely the reduction of the wage handicap, was achieved. According to the National Bank's report, our wages have increased less rapidly than in neighbouring countries. The pay handicap should even disappear completely due to the tax shift. I therefore believe that the law has worked so far and that it is still working. The compensation of historical wage costs is actually a false argument. Mrs Kitir mentioned earlier that our higher productivity also justifies higher wages. The positive productivity gap between the Belgian industry and neighbouring countries actually completely eliminates the gap in labour costs. So we can improve the law, but the question is why we should make it worse. Even more importantly, that is the essence of my argument: not so much wage developments have been problematic over the past few years, but the relationship between wage developments and the integration of people into the labour market is very important. However, that relationship is precisely the reason for this law, if I understand correctly. It is stated that the aim is to increase the level of effectiveness by monitoring wage developments. In the last 20 years, however, we have looked at this. There has hardly been a relationship between these two indicators, between wage developments and more or less people in the labour market. In graphs one can see that very nicely. People see very strange things happening there. What is seen, for example, is that the share of workers increased even more during the period of the greatest wage slip. So so far, over the past 20 years, there has not been any real evidence that there is a relationship between the two. In fact, the lesson should then be to focus more on integrating as many people as possible into the labour market rather than on the mere effort to keep wages in line. People are actually doing the opposite here. Wages are kept tighter in line and there is no mention whatsoever of a greater guarantee that labour costs reductions will be converted into additional recruitments in companies. With the amendment of the wage moderation law of 1996, you are not actually doing what you want with the present draft. The legislative text is quite rightly beginning with the view that it is the ambition to increase employment in our country in order to give all citizens the opportunity to develop. The policy that is being developed here will strengthen the competitiveness of companies, but will not guarantee that we will finally get more people back to work. The main objective of the law is to promote employment. In particular, the government has the ambition to achieve the rate of activity of 73.2% by the end of the legislative term. You still have a lot of work to do on that point, by the way. We note that the proportion of people working in our country is still at the same level as when the Michael administration took office. If we compare it with other EU countries, we were 2 percentage points behind the 28 EU countries at the start of Michel I, now we are even 4 percentage points behind in terms of efficiency. So we've gotten a little worse. That is because all the other European countries seem to be able to get more people to work. It is often not said, but Belgium is not able to do so. In fact, no other country in Europe is doing worse. Only in the small Grand Duchy of Luxembourg did the rate of activity decrease during the same period. In other countries there was a marked growth in the share of working people. Belgium even slips towards the tail of the European platoon. When the current government started to work, we stood in the European ranking at the eighteenth place of the twenty-eight, while we now stand in the twenty-fourth place of the twenty-eight. We can only conclude that other countries seem to have better recipes than this government to get more people to work, while more people at work is the practice, at least I understand the ambition in the explanatory memorandum of this law. A third point has already been raised by a number of other fellow Members. The failure to charge wage subsidies in the calculation of the wage standard amounts to an artificial increase in wage costs in Belgium. The add-on has already been made. By failing to take into account the reduction of social contributions from 2016 to 2020 via the tax shift, €3.2 billion is not taken into account. Add to this the target discount and the total amount is EUR 3.7 billion, which is not taken into account. In addition, €5.2 billion in wage subsidies in 2015 and €360 million in wage subsidies for night work and shiftwork. Labour costs are therefore artificially blown up by a total of EUR 9.2 billion, without taking into account the social security deficit. As a result, the transition to a race-to-the-bottom policy on labour costs. We are now talking about an ambition to remove the historical labour cost handicap, but no longer to remove the handicap that has been built up since 1996, which was the spirit of the 1996 law. However, other choices can be made. Policies can choose to bring in innovative activities, which are often activities carried out by staff who usually have higher than average wage costs. Such policies sometimes have to be paid a little more than average, which means that average wage costs are also slightly higher. However, with a view to future prospects and sustainability, this is a reasonable and even a good choice. You can indeed make a different choice and aim at lower wage costs at all costs. By generating more jobs at the bottom of the labour market, where wage costs are lower, you are indeed reducing average wage costs. However, these jobs are not necessarily the most forward-looking. A focus on ever lower wage costs than neighbouring countries could therefore have a perverse effect and create an economy in which we create low-wage jobs in particular and no longer invest in innovation and sustainability. It is just that which has made our country a success so far. Suppose, over the next few years, with all this government's index jumps and wage cuts, we build a wage bill and become cheaper than neighbouring countries, then we will not invest that bonus in better and more innovative staff, because half of that bonus needs to be re-invested in order to further moderate wages. In other words, you have made a structural choice with this law to pay less and less than neighbouring countries. In this way, we want to ensure that companies can attract cheaper staff than in neighbouring countries, but forgetting that this will deprive our own innovative people of a wage premium and even risk pushing them to competing companies across borders. We may be cheaper, but we will also be less innovative. In addition, you cut people's purchasing power, which keeps slowing down demand for products and the economy. In the long term, this could be a catastrophe for our competitive position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u198	Mr President, I wanted to intervene as little as possible and listen as carefully as possible. Mrs Willaert, when I hear you so busy, I hope you have a great deal of understanding and concern for the low-skilled. I fully understand innovative companies and workers who, in terms of labour costs, are in a higher margin, but I would ask you to pay a great deal of attention to the cleaning women and others and to the low wages they start with. You have been pleading for innovative companies and employees for five minutes now, and I have no problem with that, but I hope that Green and yourself have a great deal of concern for the low-skilled. They are important and they are the first victims when wage costs in Belgium are too high.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u199	I am pleased that you are bringing it up, Minister, because it gives me the opportunity to stress once again that we ourselves tabled an amendment at this plenary session at the end of 2015 to ensure that the wage cuts that this government has decided on can be much more targeted at the lowest wages, precisely because of the concern for the people on low wages. In the calculation in our proposal, we could create a lot more jobs than this government is doing with the tax money that we ultimately cannot get in through the tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u200	As far as the tax shift is concerned, we have also made the highest reduction in employers' contributions in the case of low wages. We may not have gone as far as Green, but there is a very important aspect of wage costs for low wages, because employers' contributions have fallen more strongly there. We are now drawing them up to the other wages. There, too, we took with great attention the concerns that Green had at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u201	Thank you, Minister, but of course you chose to give it linearly to everyone and then do something extra for lower wages. We have argued that certain groups may need it a little less and that we could just do a lot more for lower wages. That is indeed a difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u202	That's not federal matter, ma'am. You know that, don't you? Target group policy is the responsibility of the region's regions. That is why we at the federal level must ensure that it is done linearly, otherwise we will be in the waters of the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u203	The proposal we put on the table was equally valuable, which would have created a lot more jobs with taxpayers' money than has been the case so far. I'm recapitulating. That is to say, that is our view, that the tax shift can serve anything, except for an increase in wages. The tax shift can serve to increase shareholders' dividends or to create jobs, but that is in the most positive hypothesis, since the reduction in contributions did not go hand in hand with the obligation to create jobs that we put forward. The tax shift can therefore not serve to increase wages. In any new decision on the decline in patronial contributions, at least half will serve to close the historical wage handicap. Again, not for raising wages. I come to my fourth point. In our view, this draft law makes competitiveness too much a question of wage costs. You know you don't have to do this. Competitiveness is not limited to wage costs. Belgian competitiveness is measured by innovation, the use of raw materials, energy consumption, energy costs, material ageing, public investment. Wages are a part of the composition of direct production costs. Competitiveness is not a question of direct costs. Direct costs include energy costs, production, transport, distribution, taxes, capital costs, interest rates, aid mechanisms, land and equipment, and corporate tax. Other determinants are also specific to the company and its products: economies of scale, motivation of HR, quality of public service, cultural dimension, entrepreneurship, trust. But you choose a very scary focus on wage costs here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u204	My apologies, Mrs Willaert. You have also read Article 5, § 3. That's obvious. It explicitly states, and I quote: 'The report of the Central Council for Enterprise on the structural aspects of competitiveness and employment, in particular the sectoral structure of national and foreign investment, research and development expenditure, market shares, the geographical destination of exports, the structure of the economy, innovation processes, financing structures for the economy, productivity determinants, training and education structures, change in the organisation and development of enterprises'. Where appropriate, suggestions for improvements shall be made. Is Article 5 (3) not a perfect answer to your concerns?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u205	I can at least say that one aspect of this bill is now very well worked out, while the rest, as has already been said, are possible promises.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u206	Do I have to repeat it again? Everything is in this, or did I forget to mention something in the list that could be included in the report? Then you must tell me what else needs to be discussed. Expenditure on research and development, market shares, the geographical destination of exports, the structure of the economy, innovation processes, etc. Did I forget something?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u207	You will have the floor after Mrs Willaert, Mr Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u208	Mr President, I would like to respond to this point, which we have also discussed in committee. I acknowledged, minister, that this was one of the positive elements of your text. But we regret that in this passage you did not put priority on the energy aspect. That is why we have tabled an amendment. As I shall develop earlier, energy costs are still far more important for the competitiveness of our companies than wage costs, which have a positive impact on the internal economy. And energy costs are changing much more negatively than wage costs. Yet they are not the subject of the same effort, the same attention. Every year, we spend billions of euros buying oil, gas and coal from countries that have them in their basements. Placing priority on energy efficiency today, and on energy autonomy tomorrow, is the best way to ensure the competitiveness of our businesses while preserving our environment. It is a shared competence with the Regions, as the Council of State says. But the government is far too little concerned about this. This would be a way of freeing up wage policies and preserving the motivation of workers. You don't do it enough. There is an interesting first step, speaking of innovation, in the opinion of the Central Economic Council. But I do not see an estimate of overall energy expenditure or a solution to reduce it. It's the future, though.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u209	...the productivity determinants. I don't have a problem with it. Mr Gilkinet, we talked about this during the committee, the energy problem is already integrated into the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u210	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u211	It is not necessary to add an amendment, it is already planned. Probably not as you wish...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u212	Mr President, my fifth point relates to the freedom of negotiation, which is severely restricted by the draft law. Although during the period from 1996 to 2016, in which the old law was followed, major derailments were never recorded, the maximum slippage was 4%, the social partners are now put into a carcan. They may have reached an agreement, but that seems to me to have been rather to save social dialogue in such a tight carcan. Eventually this shows little confidence in their capabilities, although the history of the last twenty years should give confidence to their ability to keep wages more or less in line with what is happening in the Netherlands, Germany and France. The result of limiting the autonomy of social dialogue is unpredictable. There is a good chance that a smaller area will lead to greater tensions and more social discontent, which our economy does not need at all. I have two more points. First of all, I want to talk about the consequences for the workers. If, as I said earlier, we do not take account of wage subsidies, workers lose out in the financing of social security which they cannot recover in immediate pay. Lowering labour costs here has no advantage for the workers. According to a study by De Lloyd, the tax shift has taken Belgium from place two to place four in the ranking of the most expensive countries in terms of wages. For the employee, Belgium is left behind in the European rankings. Net wages are lower than their European counterparts. In other words, wage costs for Belgian workers are falling, but they do not benefit from them themselves. If we take into account the total wealth produced and the distribution of this wealth between employers and employees, we can see that the decline in patronage amounts to the increase in the share of employers in the wealth produced and, on the contrary, to the decline in the part of employees. Between 1985 and 2013, the share of wealth created in companies that went to shareholders increased from 7.5% to 17 percent. On the other hand, the share of employees fell from 65% to 60.9%. After the blocking of wages and the index jump, the reform, within a context of rising prices, will once again have an impact on wages. I don't need to repeat that. Finally, there may also be negative consequences for companies. The reinforced sanctions can create additional problems for companies that can have much less of their own wage policy. A company in full growth that wants to hire new people, people who will have a higher than average salary, will see average wage costs rise and therefore exceed the wage standard. This employer may choose not to recruit, given the risk of the increased sanctions. Wage moderation can also have a negative impact on the economy. If all traders freeze their wages there is a loss of purchasing power that will be reflected in demand and that will therefore also affect orders from companies. I would like to conclude with the choices we would make, Minister. As has already been said, we want to avoid labour costs becoming the only or narrow indicator of productivity and competitiveness. We want to discourage linear labour cost reductions that are not linked to job creation, you know that. This government very often says that it no longer gives blank cheques. Apparently that only applies to a part of the Belgians, not all of them. Perhaps you should also apply this if you give a reduction in wage costs to companies and dare to ask for the guarantee that this goes to job creation. Green Ecolo also wants all the aid that companies benefit from to be taken into account to calculate the difference in costs. We want other tools to be developed to maintain competitiveness. You quoted them. So I can say that we are full of expectation. Research & development, innovation, education and training, renewable energy, etc. Therefore, because we do not think that the parameters that we consider to be very important are sufficient, we cannot approve this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u213	Mr Willaert, with Article 5, § 3 we have already met some of Green's sighs. Mr Gilkinet referred to his amendment. I assume that this amendment No. 27 is that you submitted with your colleague. You asked for the opinion of the Council of State, who said that there was an excess of competence on the basis of Article 6 (1), VII, first paragraph, h, and that there was, moreover, too wide an authorisation given to the King. The Council of State proposes amendment No. 27 not approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u214	Mr Minister, this is why we have asked for an opinion from the Council of State. We have withdrawn this amendment, but that is no reason not to work towards reducing energy consumption. As I said, the issue of energy expenditure is fundamental to the ecologicalists in the debate on competitiveness. There is an improvement in the amendment to Article 5 that you have proposed. Indeed, the opinion of the Central Economic Council, prior to discussions on wage standards and wage developments, must now take into account more qualitative criteria. But with Amendment No 26 which we tabled and which has not been the subject of any comment by the Council of State, it is possible and necessary to ask the Central Economic Council to pay much more attention to the question of energy costs. Moreover, as the Council of State stated in its opinion on Amendment No 27, in a modern state, we must, on the one hand, negotiate with the Regions in order to find an agreement in line with the international commitments made in Paris, in particular, to find ways to spend less energy and to improve our trade balance with the States which hold this energy in their basements. On the other hand, we need to position ourselves as European leaders in energy efficiency and renewable energy development, which will create a lot of jobs. This dimension is completely absent from your text!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u215	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the cost of labour is a major challenge for our businesses and for their competitiveness, as well as for our economy. It would be totally irresponsible to deny it. However, labour costs are not the only factor influencing the competitiveness of enterprises. The formation and cost of energy – to name but two – are just as crucial. It is true, minister, that it is better to have a law to prevent the emergence of new handicaps tomorrow than to have to make late, sometimes painful, corrections or counterproductive public interventions after the fact. On this point, I can join you. You say you preserve indexation and baraemic increases; only the future will tell us. Singularly, first of all, for possible intercurrent decisions at the political level. I have heard a promise in the rostrum, but I know what it is worth, given the fate of previous promises, particularly regarding the reduction of the age of the legal pension. We will also see what will be done with regard to the baraemic increments. This point is not that simple. We will see, for example, at the next IPA, whether this promise will be fulfilled or whether, at the time the Central Economic Council calculates the next available margin, in anticipation of a new IPA, these baraemic increases will be completely immune or not. However, I have two fundamental criticisms of your bill. It is, on the one hand, the historical handicap and, on the other, the complexity and the aspects it affects. The historical handicap prior to 1996 cannot even be calculated. What sense does it have that it still has an influence on the available margin? You have referred this calculation back to the social partners. Only the Central Economic Council is clear about the 1996 bills. If we knew what this famous historical handicap was before 1996, the Central Economic Council would have calculated it for a long time. That is obviously not the case. And it is all the more complicated, Mr Minister, as you know, that the dispersion of rates of growth in hourly labour costs, according to the sectoral branches, is extremely important. What is the meaning of making this disability a criterion for wage developments in 2017 and subsequent years? The structure of our economy has fundamentally changed in the meantime, so that this criterion is no longer necessarily relevant. Moreover, the wage disadvantage with the three immediate trading partners, France, the Netherlands and Germany, is now completely eliminated. I believe that this reference to historical handicap is the result of political negotiations within your government. It is likely that the failure of the social partners to agree on this concept will be the answer to this part of your bill. Or she won't be! At the same time, you have defined a possibility, whatever the calculation of this historical handicap, whether it is, as some say, 0% or 10% as others suggest. You have referred to an element that you have sunk into the law, after eventually feeding it in case of additional bonuses. I come to the complexity of your project, which is a real gas plant. In the end, however, it will be the companies that will have to apply it. There is no shortage of examples. It is true that, in committee, and especially at second reading, the debates allowed at least to clarify certain points. This second reading did not appeal to the majority, or to you, minister. The scope was not clear, based on the information you had originally provided. The element that has been clarified is that the project effectively applies to the entire private sector, including non-marketers, as opposed to what was initially said. The second thing to mention about this complexity is the notion of wage cost. This concept could also be clarified at the second reading, although, as I repeat here, a clarification in the preparatory work remains, in my view, insufficient. Minister, the notion of salary cost is crucial to understanding the scope of the legislation. The bill defines this wage cost. In itself, this is positive, since it was not the case before. But the way you defined it is, in my opinion, the source of many legal issues. As it stands, certain advantages, according to information provided to companies by the authorities responsible for the application of the wage standard, do not give rise to the application of sanctions if this results in the shift of the wage standard. These are very many advantages and I will not mention them all. I take as examples the supplements and the notice allowances. Your draft law provides for a very broad definition of the cost of wages, but it is not included directly in the text since it is confined to referring to a European regulation. The real problem is that because of this unclear definition, certain advantages will be incorporated into the concept of "wage costs". It's not a detail. My point is not legal ergonomie. Why? Because this is a crucial issue, since, at the micro-economic level, companies need to know whether these benefits should be taken into account. For example, for the 2017-2018 PIA, will they be included, yes or no, in the calculation of the 1.1% margin of wage increase to be negotiated? According to the project, cross-sectoral, sectoral, corporate or individual labour agreements cannot provide for the margin of evolution of the wage cost to be exceeded. On the basis of your definition of the margin, benefits such as bonuses and notice allowances will be well included in the determination of this 1.1 per cent margin. As a result of our discussions in committee, Minister, you confirmed that administrative practice would be maintained and that the definition of wage cost would not cover the microeconomic level – businesses – but only macroeconomics, that is, the comparison of our wage standard with that of our three preferred neighbours and trading partners. You know that first, I had contacts with several companies. I have, of course, addressed this aspect of the case with them, because they wanted administrative practice to be continued. They were a little reassured. However, you know as well as I do that defining through a law and, above all, taking into account only an administrative practice which you have quoted orally and which will end up in the preparatory work, but without being explained in the law, obviously amounts to taking a risk. Indeed, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow – and I am not talking about you, minister, but about a minister who could succeed you...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u216	Or never.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u217	Maybe never. Unfortunately, we are all committed to the same evolution. Tomorrow, despite your statements, any other minister will be able to change administrative practice and refer to the law as it exists. The law says "A." Administrative practice today says "B". Tomorrow another minister may decide that administrative practice must be related to what is written in the law. Therefore, you could have incorporated this aspect into the law, not inserting administrative practice into it, but referring to the fact that the definition of the wage cost which refers to the European regulation does not apply at micro level. Without this, companies will take into account the definition of the wage cost. As a result, the 1.1 per cent margin is reduced to a level of grief and there will be no room for negotiation. Not having it concrete in the law will make it possible to take as a reference the law to change the administrative practice. I therefore re-tabled the amendment that I tabled in committee. I had also sent it for advice to the Council of State, which had been requested by the Speaker of the House, in an emergency. Of course, only one opinion has been given on the competences, and of course this matter concerns the jurisdiction of the federal state. It is a pity that we have not obtained the legal analysis of the Council of State. I regret this technique, which is ultimately aimed at circumventing the Council of State's contribution to this type of case. I cannot imagine for a second that your majority will support the amendment at our plenary session; I have lost all naivety in this matter. Even in committee, we are no longer even interested in the way in which the amendments could improve and avoid, tomorrow, the opening of unparalleled discussions within companies on how to interpret this law. Moreover, this example is a fine demonstration of the complexity of your project, up to the definitions it introduces, and of the total absence of openness of your majority, when it comes to improving texts, even on technical aspects. But it's not just the technical aspects. I am prepared to bet that a whole range of companies, and especially SMEs, will have to ask law firms to know whether or not these famous advantages that are included in your definition of the wage cost that refers to the European regulation are part of the 1.1% possible margin to be negotiated for 2017-2018. Your law is a gas factory. In addition to the complexity of the rules, it is rather deplorable to note, Minister, that the law explicitly provides that only the sectoral social partners will be able to receive the opinion of the Directorate-General for Labour Relations and therefore of the SPF Employment on matters of compliance with the wage standard of a draft CTC. In practice, this means that independents and SMEs will once again have to use law firms to settle their cases with significant fees at the key. You told me that companies could apply for the Employment FPS, but you also said that the latter had no obligation to achieve results. For a right-wing government that claims to be close to businesses and independents, to refuse the obligation of result for the said SPF, an administration which is intended, among other things, to support and answer questions, especially since the law is also complex, is not only calling for, but also damaging. I'll take note of it! Indeed, in the interests of SMEs and self-employed people, it would have been preferable to include this obligation of result clearly in the law, as well as to respond to companies seeking the analysis of the Employment SPF. Mr Minister, I do not wish to repeat the debate here, even though our colleague from the Vld has compared the number of jobs created in the last three years to those created in the previous three years, which amounts to comparing apples and pears. Indeed, you know as well as I do that, under the previous government, there was a particularly important crisis situation. It is not for nothing that economic unemployment schemes have been used. I would add that in those three years we have done better than the other European countries. Today's just the other way around. We are doing less well than the countries around us and the other European countries. This alone allows for a fairly accurate assessment of this government's economic agenda and policy, although, I admit, every job created is a plus. But this requires above all, given our results compared to other countries, to roll up our sleeves to try to be at least as good as they are. In a word as in a hundred, for the various reasons mentioned, our group will not support your bill; although, I repeat, monitoring the evolution of labour costs remains a major challenge for the competitiveness of companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u218	Mr President, Minister, wages are not the problem, they are the solution. They are a solution in terms of the motivation of workers. They are a solution as a reward for productivity that everyone admits to be particularly strong in our country. They are a solution for supporting internal consumption, and therefore for the functioning of our internal economy, since the wage is then consumed and is the subject of tax payments by workers. They are also a solution for the financing of our social security and therefore solidarity between all Belgians. This text, which you defend with the majority as a whole, is only one-ninth way in which this government, of this majority, achieves, limits and reduces the wage income of workers. There has already been the way in which you have applied the law, in its previous formula, governing interprofessional agreements; this corset which you imposed on the social partners during the discussion of the two previous interprofessional agreements, by limiting or preventing any wage developments, including in the high productivity sectors, which would have wished to reward their workers for their efforts. There was also, of course - and other colleagues have discussed it - the index jump, which has greatly affected the incomes of workers and social recipients. Where is the government going to stop with regard to wage limitation, the violation of the worker's right to be paid for his work? What example do you want to follow? Is it Germany with its wage dumping practices that have now existed for ten or twenty years? Do you ever want to arrive at a Chinese model? I'm a little excessive when I say it, but we can really ask ourselves what your horizon is. After catching up with what is considered a wage gap compared to the three neighbouring countries, you decided to step back in history and find a historical wage gap of which no one was aware. In doing so, you do not get wonderful results. Like my colleagues, I prefer 100,000 new jobs to 100,000 fewer jobs. We had this debate in committee and it put you in a bad mood. He's putting you back in a bad mood. Oh, my God. I'm not here to make you smile, Minister Peeters. The employment indicator to be used is the employment rate, the proportion of workers in relation to the number of employees. The employment rate in Belgium is decreasing. We are back in the European peloton. We are moving away from the European social objectives in the field of employment. You can tell me that unemployment is falling, but if unemployment is falling, it is not because all the unemployed find work, but because they are excluded from our unemployment system. I also asked you on the basis of figures obtained on the occasion of the parliamentary questions of my colleague, Evita Willaert. There is also a need to question the quality of new jobs, the ability of workers who benefit from these jobs to have a sufficient income. This employment policy, which has been applied by others before you, which aims at wage moderation at any cost that you have accentuated, does not lead to miraculous results. Rather, it leads to disappointing results in terms of creating quality jobs in a sufficient volume. There are other measures to be implemented. Be careful! We environmentalists do not say that a concerted, negotiated and reasonable wage policy is not necessary to avoid future problems. We say that this bill, beyond its impact on workers' incomes and thus on the internal economy, does not address the core of the problem, either in terms of wages or competitiveness. I will quote five points that should be considered differently. The first question is the wage cost. The wage cost consists of the worker's salary at the end of the month and the contributions paid either by the worker or by the employer. We, environmentalists, have always said that this wage cost could and should be reduced to promote job creation, but under strict conditions that your government does not respect with your tax shift. Strong alternative financing of social security is needed. You have decided with this government a tax shift but it is not funded because, in the "revenues" section, you have blindly trusted the announcements of your Finance Minister. The reductions in social contributions decided on are therefore not subject to alternative income for social security. Yes, it is necessary to reduce the cost of labour, but by guaranteeing, through a levy on the income of capital which has increased or on the most polluting shares, a solid structural financing of social security. The second thing you did not do in the tax shift - I come back to the debate that you started in my colleague Evita Willaert's speech - is to focus on the lowest wages. Yes, the least qualified are environmentalists' concerns. There are the cutting-edge sectors, the new green technologies - I will come back - that need to pull our economy up, but we also need to have attention for the least qualified. That is why, in negotiating the tax shift, we proposed amendments to correct the path you decided on. We have proposed to concentrate reductions in social contributions, at the same cost of social contributions, on the lowest wages. We had consulted academic studies, including IRES from the Catholic University of Louvain-la-Neuve. Minister, I can refer you to the amendments that we have tabled. The Université catholique de Louvain-la-Neuve states that with the same expenditure in the form of a reduction in social contributions, one can be much more effective in creating jobs by focusing on the lowest wages. This is quite possible within our institutional framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u219	For the second time, I have figures here. At the wage level of EUR 1 600, contributions dropped from 19.2 % in 2015 to 12.6 % in 2019. At EUR 5 000, this is from 27.7 % to 25 %. In other words, contributions fall as a percentage more quickly in low wages than in high wages. It is clear that there is little to add. I would like to take this opportunity immediately to point out the following: I will not have to go back to that later. I had it checked on energy. You will be served at your fingertips: on page 25 of the second part of the CRB's report, the debate on energy is explicitly discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u220	Not so fast. Energy is my fourth point. You know I'm gonna make it. With regard to the reduction in the cost of wages, I did not say that there was a greater reduction for low wages than for high wages. I just said it could be more important than what you're proposing. The models worked by academics (UCL's IRES) and the amendment that we tabled at the time of the tax shift indicate that by further accentuating the reductions in social contributions for the lowest wages and limiting them for the highest wages, there was a much greater job creation, rather than a boon effect that you could not escape because the curve you used is not sufficiently generous with respect to the lowest wages. The second element that you do not work is the issue of wage pressure within companies. This is the difference between the lowest and the highest wages. What is happening in Belgium as in other European countries? It is that of the poor workers who rise every morning but who, at the end of the month, have not been able to save money, find it difficult to finish the month, to meet their basic needs, because they have fixed-term contracts, temporary contracts, flexi-jobs or minimum wages. These are in great difficulty and, with the wage standard you have proposed, they have no prospect of wage developments. On the other hand, the highest wages are able to negotiate with their employers para-wage benefits, which are circumvention of the wage standard in the form of company cars or other benefits. If, at the level of a company, one has to consider the question of the wage cost and its impact on competitiveness, one must also question – what you do not at all – the difference between the lowest and the highest wages, the latter having the ability to circumvent the wage standard. It's totally missing from your project. Third element absent from your project and which we are deeply concerned about is the parasalarial practices developed by companies. We know about eco-cheques and meal vouchers, which will be the subject of a new debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and, perhaps, in plenary. There are also corporate cars, which are disguised wages for those who do not need their car to work, which have a very heavy environmental and economic impact, estimated by the FEB at several billion euros on the cost of traffic jams, but which are not subject to payments of social contributions. They are also not included in your salary standard calculations. I see that new parasalarial practices are developing in particular in the banking sector, with the cafeteria plans, with the development of virtual wages beyond a certain wage amount, the "units" which are imagined by some banks and on which neither social contributions are paid. Mr Minister for Employment, you are still in the middle of this phenomenon, which also puts pressure on the competitiveness of businesses. As in the Far West, you let practices develop that are next to our social model. We expected a text like the one you submitted answers to this phenomenon. To put myself in perspective, I will return to the question of the evolution of energy costs and raw materials and their impact on the competitiveness of enterprises. If there is one area that impacts the competitiveness of companies more than the wage issue, it is the area of energy cost, beyond its impact on the environment. Our economy has enormous progress to make in this area, energy costs being composed of two factors: unit cost and volume cost. As far as unit costs are concerned, I refer you to an excellent record today in the French-language weekly Le Vif-L'Express, which explains how the monopolistic or quasi-monopolistic situation that has historically been granted to certain energy producers starting from nuclear power and the fact that they have been accepted to amortize their equipment more quickly than necessary and to have it paid to the consumer has allowed them an extraordinary rent, and which shows that the unit cost of energy in Belgium is too high. The cost/volume is too high because there is no coordinated effort in this area. We have tabled two amendments on this text which we have referred to the Council of State. We listen to the Council of State in contrast, sometimes, to the government. These are Amendments Nos. 26 and 27, Minister. 26 is validated by the Council of State in terms of competences. The 27 presents a problem of allocation of powers and too wide a delegation to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u221	As far as the price of energy is concerned, it must still be said that the price of electricity may represent a quarter of the price of the invoice. On the other hand, what is far more important is the subsidies that are given to green energy and the investments that must be made in the network to adapt it to these energies. This is not the case for other countries that work differently in terms of their energy. Therefore, the price of the invoice should not be charged solely on electricity, most of the price of the invoice is not constituted by electricity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u222	Mr Friart, 20 milliars of euros, according to this morning's estimate, and what corresponds to a phenomenon that we have been denouncing for a long time, is the amount that has been stolen from the Belgians by nuclear oversubvention. Moreover, Belgium is not the only country to have adopted the Paris Agreements and to have chosen to leave nuclear energy, which is a dangerous and problematic material. But I will not go back here to the debate you have with my group leader in the Committee on the Economy and with Mrs Marghem. I therefore come back, Minister, to the cost of energy for Europe and Belgium. Belgium's annual energy expenditure on carbon-based raw materials amounts to EUR 15 billion. In other words, EUR 15 billion of the wealth produced in our country comes out of it to buy gas from the Russians, from oil to Saudi Arabia and from other states that have these carbonised resources in their basement - countries that, moreover, are not always the largest democracies. For Europe as a whole, this amounts to about EUR 400 billion. We environmentalists say that, rather than spending this wealth produced in Belgium to enrich others, we collectively take the path of the greatest possible energy efficiency with a view to achieving energy autonomy tomorrow or the day after. That is the meaning of Amendments Nos 26 and 27 that we have tabled. No. 26 aims to further improve article 5 of the Act. So I recognise that you have introduced - and we have been asking for it for a long time - more qualitative criteria, for example in relation to innovation, in the report before the inter-branch negotiations conducted by the Central Economic Council. If you agree with us, which seems to be the case, you can adopt our amendment. We are much more precise about the annual assessment of collective energy costs and strategies in Belgium to reduce them. That is the meaning of this amendment. Amendment No 27 proposed an energy standard, in the same way as an annual or biennial wage standard is in force. The Council of State tells you that you are encroaching on the powers of the Regions. That is true and, moreover, it is the result of the sixth reform of the State, which we voted together. You give the government a little too much power. Only those who do nothing are not criticized by the Council of State. That is why we need to work on this issue differently. Cooperation agreements have been concluded, but the objective, in our view, remains valid in order to modernise our economy, to act on the environmental issue, the Paris Agreements, climate change and all its costs, but also to create in Belgium high added value employment, as well as employment for the least qualified in the construction and insulation sectors. It is therefore a triple virtuous mechanism. I do not think that, in the debates that we have had regularly in the Social Affairs Committee on the bill that you have been defending so far, you have worked very hard on this aspect of competitiveness. It is obviously shared with others. Fourthly, we hope that competitiveness in Belgium will be considered more in terms of energy. This would be a way of positioning Belgium, both in Europe and in the world, on these issues. The fifth point on which your text disappoints us is the consideration of the capital cost to businesses. The banking sector, which I regularly study through the Finance Committee, is the best example. We are faced with bank companies that make significant profits, which sometimes amount to billions of euros and very often escape to foreign countries where the shareholding is located. This is the case for BNP Paribas Fortis, which returns its profits to Paris. This is the case for ING, which returns its profits in billions of euros to the Netherlands and which, however, decides to cut jobs by hundreds or even thousands. Why has it never been possible to activate articles in the current competitiveness law that require some form of shareholder moderation? Why is it ever thought that wage moderation by ignoring, as I said in my introduction, that salary is a reward for the work done, but that it also contributes to the internal functioning of our economy? For these five reasons and five inadequacies of your text, for this obsession which is yours to corse income from work and ultimately penalise Belgian workers, not to reward them for their efforts, not to motivate them with just a correct salary, you will have understood that we will not vote for this text. You will also have understood this by the debate we have had in the Committee on Social Affairs. I appreciate your listening, I have to say, but I'm really not convinced by your arguments. That is why we will not be able to vote on this text, which is ultimately aimed at preventing workers from being properly compensated for their efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u223	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to repeat everything I have said in committee. I recall that we had a rather interesting beginning of exchange on the validity of Marx's theories and in particular on the fact that we need to review, in its historical perspective, the law that you propose to us today, since you play a role in this fight between capital and labour for the value of goods and labour. As you know, since wage-earning exists or capitalism, the workers struggle to be able to sell their goods, particular commodities because it has this speciality of producing surplus value, that is, an additional value in relation to what it actually costs, as Marx has described. And the worker actually fights to be able to sell this labor force as expensive as possible. On the other hand, we have a boss who wants to compress as much as possible the value of this commodity-work. All of this could only be from the historical economy. We're back in 2017 and our legislation allows the state to intervene in this power relationship through laws. To intervene, in this case, by a law which will reduce the wages of workers and will no longer allow workers in the sectors to go to negotiate higher increases. The problem is that Marx didn't stop at that analysis. He had also analysed that, in the end, it was in the imbalance of this particular commodity that the causes of the crisis of capitalism resided. And this is where it becomes exciting because, at least since 2008, it is the crisis of capitalism in Europe. I would say more, minister, we have been in crisis since 1973. It is a crisis which, paradoxically, is a crisis of overproduction, that is, that, as Marx had already brilliantly described, there is a contradiction between the purchasing power of the workers that is diminishing and their ability to buy from these same bosses. I think that the validity of this theory is still present, Mr Minister, given that we are still at very low growth rates in Europe and that, finally, the whole planet looks at us and wonders what we are going to do in Europe to get out of this crisis. It seems to me, minister, that the law that you are proposing today will push us even further into the crisis. That is the problem because you want the opposite. I am not going to deny that your intentions are good, but I think that, economically, this is not going well. That's not the way, minister. You are quite happy to see that our salaries are now the same as those of our neighbours. But what makes you say that our neighbours will passively wait for Belgian wages to be more competitive in order to win market shares? I am already reading the press in the Netherlands; politicians are already saying that their wages are too high. I hear President Hollande say the same thing in France. And then there's the German model. You're always late, Minister! This model was applied with the red-green government, with Schröder about ten years ago. In this country, there is indeed a reduction in wages, but they find, in the end, that it has not brought them out of the crisis. And it is now that Belgium is getting on with it! I find it hard to believe that we're going out of the economic crisis with these kinds of measures. Thirdly – I agree with my colleague Gilkinet – I am surprised that you are not tackling the real problem in Belgium. You always talk about the cost of labour; I would have liked to hear you talk about the cost of capital. It's still a problem! All the capital that leaves these companies! We could even talk about a capital flight. Today, like every other day, I read De Tijd, my favorite newspaper. You have to draw inspiration from what is being said on the other side! They're not Marxists. And what do they say? "Bel 20 spoils investor with record dividend'. Hey, you can't do that, Minister. That's a disgrace. We all work hard here to reduce wages so that they can invest profits and what do they all do? The money just flies out the Bel 20 companies to dividend. That is not the case, Minister. You need to step in. What the hell is that? How will we be competitive with our companies if you do not intervene and all that money simply disappears from the Bel 20 companies? So, Minister, I would rather have a law proposed today containing a dividend freeze. The competitiveness of our companies is going to die, the money must remain in the companies and there must therefore be a dividend freeze. But no, you're not gonna come up with a dividend freeze, you're gonna come up with a pay freeze. The angle of attack, to get out of the economic crisis, is treated differently in our view. I have set out all our proposals on social consultation, which is completely flouted, and on the cost of wages. I refer you to my very relevant statement in committee. I hope that the whole world of work in Europe will no longer accept all the carcans that employers or some governments, which have the skills, impose on wages. Wages are the way out of this crisis, not the problem. It would be to increase the purchasing power of workers, to reinvest in our economy, to reactivate sleeping fortunes. They don't even know what to do with their wealth! A man like Albert Brother owns as many as 2.2 million Belgians. How to activate this money, to activate our economy? You hope to reactivate our economy, putting citizens under pressure, using the German model, dating back ten years, based on export. But to export, you have to import. If all European countries apply the same solutions as this government, who will still buy? Where are we going to export? On the planet Mars, Venus or Neptune? Global trade is a closed world. This German model based on export is doomed to failure, as well as the economic policy of this government linked to this model. You're gonna tell me you created a job. What job? You take 100,000 full-time jobs, you divide them into 200,000 half-time jobs, you create 100,000 jobs. Is that the model? You have to be serious! Minister, I feel disappointed, but I have to tell you that the PTB will not pass your law. We say "Stop!" and we hope that in the months and years to come we will put you back and blow this carcan, to give oxygen to our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u224	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, along with other speakers, we are committed to a goal of controlling wage developments in relation to developments in our main trading partners. We must, of course, avoid slippages that could threaten the competitiveness of companies. But your bill goes too far. It goes beyond reasonableness. The fact that an agreement by the social partners on this text has not been possible is not surprising. This is once again an unbalanced project, which has mainly taken into account the wishes of employers' representatives. As in the recently passed bill on feasible and manageable work, rather than seeking balanced compromises, you focus on the expectations of employers alone. This is a dangerous behaviour because dialogue between the social partners has always been the best dynamic for our country's economic activity. This negotiation between the social partners has generally led to positive results both in terms of social peace, job creation and fair pay for workers. During the hearings in committee, the workers' representatives told us why they objected to your project. There are only two points that I would like to mention here, which are of particular concern to us. First of all, this text contains complex mechanisms which reduce their negotiating margin to a grievous extent. Secondly, we wonder why, since the wage handicap is removed, no matter what you say. You recognized it during the committee work. Infringement of freedom of negotiation in the sectors will no longer allow their specificities to be taken into account. That was part of the economic dynamics of our country. We will no longer be able to rely on the attractiveness of certain sectors, which used sophisticated skills and which, in relation to wage growth, could generally give themselves, when we see history, a very small margin of growth greater than that which was sometimes negotiated at the cross-sectoral or inter-professional level. I would also like to point out that the social partners have always made good use of the existing mechanism. They have generally demonstrated a sense of responsibility. It is true that in the past there have been errors in estimation. But, by the way, they were not always attributable to the social partners, but rather to those who prepared the decisions, particularly within the Central Economic Council. However, it must still be recognized that the agreements reached have always been respected, to the satisfaction of each of the parties. There is therefore no question of trivialising the social partners on the grounds that they would not be able to maintain a balance between wages and competitiveness. In fact, your bill is very ideological, but your view of competitiveness is not desirable in terms of the economic future of our country. It is also known, as has been pointed out, that competitiveness also depends on other factors. Perhaps the first factor is the quality of the products and services that are placed on the market. It is the specificity of these products and services that will allow our companies to have the levers of their growth and competitiveness compared to other companies. Today, it is the added value of products and services that enables them to find their place in the commercial market. There, no thought is being given, in particular because your government does not have much ambition to support the most advanced scientific research, while this is probably the very first lever to activate today to support the competitiveness of companies. We also talked about the cost of energy. You've increased the VAT on electricity. Moreover, we have become Europe's champions of inflation, to the detriment of our competitiveness. The costs of services are exploding and weighing on the costs of production. On the other hand, only the cost of work takes your full attention, while, as I said, the wage handicap is removed. You come with a very ideological idea. Workers have made a great deal of effort since the 1996 Act came into force, including index jumps. But that is not enough for your government. You now want to absorb the famous, so-called historical handicap dating back to before 1996. So there, O paradox! You do not leave room for the social partners to determine tomorrow a standard of wage growth that would be more in line with the aspirations of the workers, but on the other hand, you will instruct the social partners to determine what this historical handicap represents. We'll talk about it for months. There will be no agreement between the social partners to determine this historical handicap. Therefore, the whole objective of your law, which is purely ideological, will collapse without agreement. No one today knows the extent of the effort to be made, since, as I have just said, this handicap must be determined by the social partners in the Central Economic Council. It must be said that the introduction of this notion of historical handicap has generated a complicated and opaque mechanism. Thus, when the wage disadvantage is positive – that is, our wages increase faster than those of our neighbours – this leads to a reduction in the maximum margin available. What's more logical? But when wage disadvantage is negative, when our wages increase less rapidly than those of the reference neighbouring states, this translates in half into a reduction in historical handicap and half into a greater but not automatic margin available, since the social partners can still decide to allocate it to the elimination of historical handicap. In other words, you're going to give the employer the key to shutting down any margin of negotiation if he wishes. In addition, you introduce a new distortion in comparison with our neighbours. The reductions in employers' contributions to the tax shift will not be taken into account and any reductions in expenses that will be decided from 2017 onwards will be allocated at least 50% to the removal of the historical handicap. You say we don't touch baraemic increases or indexing. But the latter risk being void, because the margins are likely to be as much, since you are inventing a system that requires the social partners to be locked in a circle. The decisions on baraemic increases are up to them, you say. They will be free to delete them or not. But as long as the historical handicap exists, they will be taken into account in determining whether or not there is a disability and, if so, how far it is. And if there is a disability at the end of the two-year period, it should be subtracted from the new margin available. That is the infernal cycle that you impose on the social partners. In short, you choose to reduce the purchasing power of workers. Today, it is demonstrated by the best economists that the most powerful lever of economic recovery is rather the growth of purchasing power, and therefore of wages, than the only criterion of business competitiveness. I have often denounced here in this forum that you are only acting on one pedal, the accelerator, that of growth, but that, moreover, you are so slowing down on the other, that you are annihilating the growth effects that you are looking for at the beginning of the sole criterion of the competitiveness of enterprises. Moreover, we must not hide it: the growth of employment is not as favourable as you would like to say. Regardless of how many part-time jobs are created, our performance in terms of job creation is lower than in the euro area. Despite all the efforts imposed on workers in terms of constraints on their wages and despite the measures taken to alleviate the employer burden, the gap is widening. But you don't make the comparison any more. You don't have the same will. Thus, employment is increasing more in the euro area and in the European Union of Twenty-Night than in our own country: growth of 1.8% on average in the euro area and in the European Union of Twenty-Night, only 0.4% in our own country. If I compare 2016 with 2014, I see that this gap is widening both with the euro area and with the European Union of Twenty-Hight. It would be worth studying the causes. That is to say, your economic policy does not have the ferments of growth you expect. In conclusion, Mr Minister, you have tabled an ideological bill that undermines trust between the social partners, a confidence that has always been so essential for economic recovery in our country at a time when we have experienced the most difficult crises. It is often the social partners who have been at the initiative of the economic projects most conducive to our growth. To undermine this trust between the social partners is ultimately to undermine confidence in our ability to revive our country's economy. Therefore, we will not be able to follow your bill, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u225	Mr President, the discussions in committee have been very important to me. There have also been hearings organised. There has been a great deal of discussion about the present draft, which has rightly generated a lot of discussion and on which we have been able to clarify a lot of things. I remember very well the time when the law came into being in 1996 when I was in the Central Council for Business with Robert Tollet, who is still President of the Central Council for Business. We then discussed this with Jean-Luc Dehaene, but also with the then Minister for Economic Affairs, Elio Di Rupo. I am well aware that after so many years this law had to be modernised as a matter of urgency. I explained in committee where improvements had to be made. The present draft, which I hope will be adopted in the near future, is the final part of the reforms in terms of competitiveness. We have had the law on manoeuvrable and workable work and now there is this law that brings labour legislation firmly into the 21st century. Our top priority is, of course, employment. Increasing the number of jobs is clearly our government's goal and mission. Job creation is one of the most important priorities of this government. I will come back to figures in detail when this has also been published by the authorities. I am thinking of the annual report of the RVA, which will soon be available, and of other reports, which will contain very important figures. I am also convinced that the creation of work and the efforts to do so have been very clear. Mr Daerden, I will return to the index jump later. Mrs de Coster-Bauchau stressed the importance of the present situation, compared to that of 1996: wage disability had been eliminated. At the beginning of the legislature - figures have already been mentioned - it was still 3%. Then it was 3 %. But these are actually just numbers. The real result is, and no one can deny it, that unemployment has fallen every month since the start of this government compared to the year before. Unemployment in Belgium has fallen every month. We are talking here in Belgium about every unemployed person we can get to work. I want to have a quiet debate on the comparison with other countries, but the real result is that unemployment today is more than 8% lower than in January 2015. The real result is that there have been 119 800 jobs since 2015, of which 58 700 were last year. The real result is that jobs have been created for people who didn't before. I would like to comment on that. This has not gone without effort. These efforts were made not only by the government but also by the social partners. I would like to stress here that the individual workers have also made efforts to get us back on the right path. These efforts take us where we are today. The 1996 Law, which is now being modernised, contains several elements, such as protecting purchasing power and not jeopardising important elements that have been explicitly re-established in this law. For example, there is automatic indexation in this country and there are the baremic increases. They were explicitly included in this. You asked a moment ago about the future of automatic indexation. I can assure you that the mechanism now laid down in this law has given additional guarantees to automatic indexation. An index jump is of course not a pleasant decision for anyone. I know how much effort that has required. The debate on the index jump has been a very important debate. We have to deal with this very carefully. But why did it take an index jump? Because our wages were derailed from our three neighbouring countries. That is why we had to pull the emergency brake. To prevent this, the mechanism is refined. I also believe that we have made the necessary efforts for employment, which is very important. This debate would have been completely different if the social partners had not concluded a new IPA on the basis of the law which I hope will be adopted today. They got out with his A's. They said they were going to conclude an agreement on this bill. This shows that all comments on complexity and non-applicability in reality are mistaken. The evidence is there. An IPA has been concluded on the basis of these legal texts. Much has been said about historical wage costs. The reduction of the historical labour cost handicap is a new factor. I said this during the discussions in committee. I would like to make it clear that several studies, including the report of the Expert Group on Competitiveness and Employment of July 2013 and commissioned by the previous government, have shown that, in addition to the disability compared to 1996, there is still a difference in wage costs between Belgium and our three neighbours prior to 1996. The experts have shown this and have recommended in their report that they also address this historic labour cost handicap. I believe that we have made sure that this point was taken to heart. Mr. Daerden, you asked what the historical gap was. It is very wise not to stick a percentage to the difference between what the VBO says and what the employees' organisations say. Why not? Because one has to take into account, inter alia, sectoral differences and productivity differences, and because the Central Council for Business is ideally suited to negotiate in a good way. If you say that this will not work and that the social partners will not succeed, then you have less confidence in the social partners and the Central Business Council than I do, because I am sure they can get out of it. It is also important to stress that this historic handicap is not eliminated by increasing wage moderation. Mrs de Coster-Bauchau said it. We will put aside the already decided reductions in costs and at least half of the future reductions in charges and half of the negative labour costs handicap in order to phase out this historic handicap. In other words, the windfalls are used to reduce that historical handicap. Finally, I would also like to stress that in this new modernised law of 1996, we firmly maintained social dialogue. We are convinced that the social partners and the Central Business Council are extremely well placed to do so. I would like to make it clear that there is still a great deal of work to be done. There are groups of opportunities in our society that do not yet have a new job and have few opportunities. There are people who are discriminated against in our labour market. There are still rules that can be made better to boost job growth. It is not that we have to crow victory or say with a lot of aplomb how well we do it. The numbers are positive, thank God, but there's still a lot of work to be done. Keeping inflation in check is an example of this. We must continue to do so. I am convinced that our work is not yet finished, but that this law, if adopted, can contribute to the purchasing power of employees, to the further development of employment and to the competitiveness of our companies. This means that we must also continue to work with this law on job creation and on a great deal of additional employment that can also be achieved by this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u226	Thank you, Minister. Are colleagues asking for a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u227	Mr President, I do not wish to repeat the debate. Indeed, there has already been a wide debate, but the theme deserved it. We insisted that hearings be held. You accepted them. But the exchange with the social partners, in particular, was useful. This has, in any case, allowed us to feed our discussion. I will not tell you that you have not convinced us, since it is obvious. Having said that, let me go back to two or three elements. You mentioned the need for index jumps as a result of slippages in terms of pay gap. Today, the latter is being reabsorbed. In my view, it was possible to achieve this result without this index jump. As our group leader said earlier, an index jump is, in fact, a failure to adjust wages to changes in prices and cost of living. This is therefore a direct sanction applied to workers and social beneficiaries. I would add that the question of competitiveness is not the only reason for this index jump. Budgetary considerations have also justified your choice. Moreover, the companies did not ask for it. As far as unemployment is concerned, we can only rejoice when there is job creation and when a number of citizens have returned to work. But caution should be exercised when analyzing figures. Indeed, the employment rate tends to decline. We must not cry out for victory too quickly, and we must not take over the victory too quickly. Indeed, it is important to know that work is being done at regional level to help improve overall activity and employment in the different regions of our country. What is also to be seen, and this is primarily within the federal jurisdiction, is the quality of employment and the quantitative distribution among individuals (full-time, part-time, overtime, etc.).). We must keep these criteria in mind at the time of analysis. We are moving towards greater job insecurity. This is a matter of great concern to us. We should all worry about it. In conclusion, we are told that this would be the last reform on competitiveness. I welcome this, because we have enough of such reforms. You consider your work to be accomplished. I do not know what the consequences are. Anyway, I hear that's your last reform. The work is done. Good! Beyond the little end of it... 22.69 (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u228	You're saying the job isn't over. So it's a little contradictory: it's your last reform, but your work is not done. I suppose that means that it will take another coalition to go further tomorrow and undertake other interesting reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u229	Mr President, I will be brief, because I will make our group's opinion clear. I would like to react to three things. First of all, you lost your phlegm in the gallery – my colleague Marcel Cheron, who is sometimes a little "bad language", commented: "Arguments weak? Scream loudly" - about unemployment. I really can't follow you on this aspect of the file. Don't you mind, the statistics in terms of employment rates show that the situation in us is deteriorating rather. If unemployment is changing, have the intellectual honesty to admit that it is through the phenomenon of exclusion of the unemployed, pushed towards other forms of aid – in particular the CPAS – rather than through job creation. We must be correct in this regard. I regret that this is the case, since we, as environmentalists, want as many people as possible to work. With regard to the resumption of social dialogue, I do not think that there should be triumphalism in the head of government, but rather that it should be seen as a form of sensitivity of the social partners, who have been particularly ill-treated since the beginning of the legislature and who have wondered, in the face of a historic choice, whether they are once again deadlocking on an inter-professional agreement or if they are concluding one, even if it does not entirely satisfy them in order to give another chance to our model of social consultation to exist. Instead, we find ourselves in the second hypothesis of a minimalist agreement which wants to leave a possibility for the future hoping that the ardour of agreements a little more ambitious will come back. Finally, on a positive note, there was much discussion of energy issues and modernization, and the inclusion of other elements in competitiveness. We note with interest the amendment of Article 5 and the content of the prior opinion to be given by the Central Economic Council, which contains more qualitative elements for the future. It's more of a positive thing. This monitoring must be specifically extended to include energy issues, respecting the competences of each other. And at the outset, we really need to direct our economy and the possibility of creating jobs to the sectors of the future: the new green technologies. We need to position our economy more in qualitative terms, to be a model in Europe on energy efficiency, on renewable energy, on the sparing use of raw materials, on the circular economy. There is a lot to be done from a qualitative point of view. As I said to you, there is a lack in the policy of this government and in your policy as Minister of Employment: it is to try to really position the Belgian economy towards these sectors of the future – in consultation with the Regions, since competences are shared. Compressing wages to the infinite is not the solution of the transition of our economy and will not lead to a brighter future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u230	Mr President, we have not put enough emphasis on the fact that we have already been able to use, in a way, the benefits of this next reform through the social consultation which has already taken place and which has achieved a result. As I said earlier, more than ten years ago this type of social consultation had not taken place. I heard my colleague, Mr Daerden, talk about job insecurity. I want to ask a question: is this precarious employment not due to a lack of training, a lack of education in certain areas, a lack of support for the unemployed? On these aspects, perhaps we can turn to regional governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u231	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u232	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2248/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2248/8) The draft law has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u233	• 19 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (2248/9) • 25 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2248/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u234	• 23 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2248/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u235	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u236	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u237	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Grovonius, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u238	Mr. Chairman, I will be quite brief because the bill under consideration has been passed unanimously in committee and I hope it will be the same in plenary. First of all, the MR would like to welcome the fact that this bill is on the agenda and can be adopted in this House because, as you pointed out, Deputy Prime Minister, he is updating a social security convention dating back to the 1960s. This update seems all the more necessary, when we know the close ties our respective countries have maintained and the important contribution of the Moroccan community to the economy of our country for decades. The Reform Movement will therefore naturally vote in favour of this text, which aims to maintain the social security rights acquired in both countries, to ensure equal treatment between Belgian and Moroccan nationals, to avoid double subjection to social security and, finally, to facilitate the transition from one scheme to another. Finally, as the minister pointed out, this convention is of a mixed nature and, when we vote, we will be the only ones, together with COCOM, to have agreed to this important convention for tens of thousands of Belgian and Moroccan citizens. Therefore, let me appeal to my colleagues, whose parties are in the regional and Community parliamentary majorities and who have not yet expressed their views. Take the example that we are going to show, so that each of the parliaments concerned can quickly endorse, update and dust this convention that dates back more than fifty years! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u239	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only mention one article of the Treaty, which is why we cannot approve it. This is the last article of the second chapter, Article 29. The previous Convention contained a similar arrangement in Article 24, § 2. It is up to you, ladies and gentlemen. Many of you made very tough statements yesterday, tough statements on International Women's Day. Today, you are perpetuating polygamy with this treaty. However, according to Belgian law, polygamy is expressly prohibited. With the Treaty, you will continue to ensure that widow pensions of polygamous marriages are paid out by the Pensions Service. The present agreement shows that you continue to support polygamy. I think that is an unacceptable mockery of our basic rights. I'm not alone in that. The new Secretary of State, Mrs Demir, agrees. She had that recorded in January 2014, in a very extensive column in Knack. But I'll come back to that in a moment. Colleagues, polygamy seems to be a far-from-our-bed business. For many women in the world, however, it is a sad reality. Fortunately, in our country, the phenomenon is not very common. But it seems that Belgian legislation sometimes forces us to take this into account. In the previous version, Article 24 (2) of the Social Security Convention between Belgium and Morocco provides that "the widow's pension may be distributed equally and definitively to the entitled persons in the conditions laid down in the personal status of the insured person." In human language, this simply means that the widow's pension is distributed equally among the widows of the person concerned. Polygamy can thus be a factor in determining social benefits in our country. In the new treaty we read in the explanatory memorandum: In the old treaty, the survivor's pension was divided into equal parts among several widows, which was not always fair. This Convention divides the survivor's pension among widows, taking into account the length of marriage. A more equitable solution has therefore been given to a factual situation of which we bear the consequences." However, this nuance with regard to the previous treaty does not change the essence, namely that Belgium continues to take polygamy into account. The new treaty continues to tolerate the facts. However, polygamy is a criminal offence and a crime against the public order of the family and public morality. At the beginning of the current legislature, I questioned Secretary of State Francken about these practices. He himself harassed Maggie De Block with similar questions during the previous legislature. So I thought I was asking the right competent authority my questions. Francken, however, opened his umbrella and forwarded me to the Minister of Pensions. Meanwhile, he tweeted toughly, when a number of Muslims protested in order to get a full widow's pension instead of a split pension. He was like a referee giving himself a red card, but still standing on the field. It is somewhat machiavellistic to raise a situation each time, and then to maintain them themselves. After that, I turned to the Minister of Pensions. In May 2015, I also questioned him on the matter. In particular, it was clear from his reply that he did not consider it appropriate to renegotiate the Convention. In other words, he did not mind that this breach of our legislation was maintained. However, ladies and gentlemen, today the renegotiated treaty lies on your banks. Apparently, the question I have put to all these excellences has not been taken into account. I will return to the 2014 column in Knack by Mrs Demir, who is now Secretary of State. I took that column seriously and I think a lot of voters have done the same. It was not published on April 1, but dates from early January. I'd like to read a piece: We can expect the Belgian authorities to ensure that the treaties they conclude fit in with the views on basic fundamental rights. The said treaty dates back to 1971, when there was still talk of migrant workers. Today they have become fellow citizens. For that reason alone, it is high time to revise the provisions of that Convention. However, this is not the only change of context that has occurred. In 1981, Belgium received a first anti-discrimination law, which has since been strengthened several times. The law on equality between men and women in 2007 makes that equality is no longer a good goal, but a legal obligation. However, a treaty containing these articles remains out of the question, even though it does not recognise that legislation. Fortunately, the world did not stand still on the international scene either. There is an increasing global consensus that clashes polygamy with the principle of equality. Moroccan law allows polygamy, but not polyandry. Marrying a woman with more than one man, you can't do that there. Thus equality between men and women is explicitly violated. In 1993, the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women made recommendations for the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. These recommendations explicitly mention polygamy discrimination. The EESC urges that polygamous marriages be banned worldwide. The fact that a 1971 treaty does not take into account laws and evolutions in thinking of a later date is logical, but that these treaties are not being revised is a mockery of evolution in our thinking. Today, by this route, generally accepted principles are flawed with impunity, including for people on our territory. It is quite unacceptable that Belgium should support polygamy in one way or another. The government must start negotiations with Morocco as soon as possible in order to eliminate all provisions contrary to our legal principles from that 1971 Convention. Since then, Moroccan society and legislation have also benefited from developments. Listen carefully, ladies and gentlemen, I am still quoting: 'I call on colleagues from all the Flemish parties to support my call and to demand that the government put an end to this. We must send out a clear signal that we do not want to give this shameful violation of human dignity any room for manoeuvre. The fact that we are doing everything we can to eliminate the adverse effects of polygamy on women will hopefully not be a point of discussion in Flanders. Even in a multicultural environment, cultural relativism must not lead to the nuance of women's rights. The signal, ladies and gentlemen, must be clear: the basic rights are not under discussion. There will be no compromises on this, never. End of quote. Now you have negotiated the whole of that treaty, but the essence, the main concern, the call of the Secretary of State, is not at all to be met. All the reasons she cited are justified and justify the non-approval of the Convention and a re-negotiation. Colleagues of the N-VA, I hope you will support that call from Zuhal Demir. We shall certainly do so by not approving the Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u240	Since I have been questioned on a point of procedure, I would like to reassure Mr Flahaux. Initially, this convention was to be ratified only at the federal level. Since the sixth reform of the State and the communitarisation of family allowances, the Treaty has become mixed and must therefore be ratified by the various parliaments. According to the various information provided, this is in the process of being done, so we will be able to rejoice. Secondly, I am pleased with the proposed project. The General Convention on Social Security between Belgium and Morocco was signed in 1968. It was four years after the 1964 Labour Agreement. We brought workers to our country because we needed them. The least we can do today is to recognize the full contribution of these workers to the development of our economy in all regions of the country. A social security agreement was therefore concluded, but it was limited. We have expanded the text, both for Moroccan workers who have come to Belgium and for Belgian workers who have gone to work in Morocco. For example, a worker who has worked here all his life, who returns to live in his country, can have access to health care in the same way as other workers, since he has contributed to social security, like all other workers. It is therefore an equality to be respected. This is a convention that I personally negotiated, as you know. It took time. That has not been easy, and I am very pleased that this government is proposing today to accept and ratify the treaty. Thank you! I think we have to recognize when things are done properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u241	The government does not ask to speak, because there have actually only been statements of support, except for Mrs Pas, of course. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u242	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2289/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2289/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u243	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u244	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2125: Inez De Coninck 2284: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Nele Lines. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote a single discussion to these motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u245	The by the text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2125/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2125/4) The title was changed by the committee to "Proposal for a resolution on the establishment of TrainPoints." The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the creation of Train Points". The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this late hour I would like to ask for the floor to try to convince colleagues from the opposition to vote in favour of this resolution, because we believe that it is a good thing, both for SNCB and for the traveller. No one likes to close a window in his municipality, but we have to admit that ticket sales through the counters are falling sharply. I asked for the numbers myself. They show that trend. The importance of the stations has decreased by almost a third over three years. Of course, this has to do with social trends, such as increasing digital ticket purchases, which contribute to this. SNCB has responded to this by using ticketing machines itself. SNCB also announced several window closures in September 2015. They are often very far-reaching. Such window closures have been carried out so far without mitigating measures and without researching a physical alternative, because when a window closes, we saw this in September 2015.................................................................................................................................................................................... They will then experience the disadvantages of this procedure. There's no window or waiting room anymore. Some citizens are also not so skilled with a ticketing machine, let alone that they like to buy a ticket online. That is why we want to offer an alternative and a solution with this resolution. Even if the ticketing machine is defective or if the ticketing booth is already closed at my station, the ticketing booth is closed in the afternoon. As an alternative, we propose buying tickets from local traders in and around the station. I would like to refer to Mr Geerts, who this week in Trends, in an article following the entry of CEO Dutordoir, says that there is a supermarket in many small Swiss stations. That's a good thing. Should we do the same here, SNCB could get revenue from commercial activities. In fact, this resolution, with the TrainPoints that we want to introduce, makes it possible to provide for commercial activities in the stations. That is a win-win situation, also for the traveller, because one could also sell tickets there. The station remains open, there is some social control, maintenance and so on. Let me make one thing clear, ladies and gentlemen: this resolution is not in any way a justification or an ID for closing stations. No, we really want to deal with the need for a physical point of sale in the event of closure. Those who claim, as we have heard in committee, that this is a flat-rate saving exercise and an excuse to close windows: that is wrong. I would like to refer to the decision of the Board of Directors of SNCB, which states that no new points of contact will be closed. This resolution, on the other hand, lays down conditions to be met in the event of a closure, if it were to be done. Finally, my fellow Members, this question also comes from the passenger organisations. They ask for it themselves. I found an article in the member magazine Mondig Mobile last summer, August-September 2016, in which TrainTramBus states: "There must be arrangements for people who cannot handle machines for some reason." In the Stockholm region and elsewhere, this has been solved in a user-friendly way by having local newspaper shops sell tickets. Why can't we do that? You can attract a lot of bottles, ladies and gentlemen, but you cannot claim that TrainTramBus wants to reduce the service to the traveller. I would like to conclude that the intention of our resolution is absolutely positive for the traveller. I still hope for the opposition's approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u247	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I see the smile of Mr Cheron, Mr Geerts and Mrs Poncelet who were present in committee. At this late hour, we are not going to repeat the whole debate, Mrs De Coninck. But even you, in committee, have doubted the merits of the motion for a resolution in the light of the arguments that we have put forward. Today, you come back sharked, rebooted, with press documents telling us that, thanks to this, things are going to get better. SNCB is not bpost. These are not the same daily needs. These are not the same extraordinary needs. We really wanted to reassure ourselves. And you're still coming to tell us, today, that the board of directors has indicated that there would be no additional window closures. What you're saying is true until 2020. But then we don't know. Mr. Cheron gave you an amendment at arm's length. We know how insistent he can be. He even manages to convince me sometimes. And in that case, that's what he did. All members of the opposition signed the amendment, which allowed the majority to align their words with acts and guaranteed that there would be no further closure of windows. You're telling us that fewer and fewer tickets are being sold at the counters. This may be due to the fact that there are fewer and fewer outlets available, fewer and fewer public services available to users who would so much like to regain the full functionality of the services you are looking for, day after day, evening after evening - I would like to say - to fight. No, you didn't reassure us. No, you didn't convince us. That is why the Socialist Group will not vote for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u248	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will keep it brief. I can only repeat what I said at the committee meeting, in particular that our group has nothing against an additional service. The problem with this resolution is, however, that no mention is made of the importance of points of contact, let alone the need to maintain them. During the discussion, I was surprised that, like colleagues from PS, cdH and Ecolo, I was dismissed as conservative. We were the Conservatives because we said that a number of counters should be kept. There is nothing progressive about abolishing public services for me. I believe that there should be a minimum level of service for these points of contact and that their tasks should be better fulfilled. We have also tabled a new motion for a resolution on the creation of a window 2.0, which is being considered today. As Mrs De Coninck said, we need to look at how this should be organised. I made that clear in committee too. In the text of the majority is only used on TrainPoints. During the debate a comparison was made with bpost, but in the reform of bpost it was made clear that at least 650 post offices and at least one in each municipality would be maintained. Those alternative PostPoints were an additional service and are an effective success. There is therefore a minimum guarantee of that public undertaking, and I do not see that in this text. I am afraid that the tendency to reduce counters, especially in small municipalities, will give rise to self-filling prophecy and that there will be less supply of these counters until they are finally closed down. That is why I believe that we should look more closely at filling out these points of contact. There is a public heritage there that can be valorized for the company, but especially for the travelers. We voted against this resolution in committee because we are abandoning the importance of the window itself and only using additional TrainPoints, without guaranteeing the essential function of a sale that meets the passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u249	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we had this debate in committee on the future of the possibility of buying tickets to take the train. It was quickly agreed that the train is the essential strategic tool for mobility of the future, that it is a means of transport for the future. There is no problem here. When we started the debate on your proposal, ladies De Coninck and Lahaye-Battheu, all the groups said: "You present your text as an alternative to what? Today's so-called railway stations, counters, behind which there are people who are in contact with railway users and who wish to travel by train, buy a ticket, inquire at the counter, have this contact which still allows to have indications." We immediately drew attention to the fact that the window itself was therefore called upon to disappear. That was the danger of the alternative. So we asked the question of public service, railway, railway stations and counters. No one will have escaped that, in recent years, stations have been removed. I am referring here to the rural areas that have been at the heart of the debate that we have developed. It has been pointed out to you that replacing a window or a railway station in rural areas with so-called "trains" points with services and shops that do not exist is a bit difficult. Mrs Poncelet particularly stressed this. We therefore wanted to address the question of the guarantee of the cessation of the disappearance of the railway stations' windows and even of the sales times at the counters. Because you know that it is not because there are still stations with counters that the latter are open permanently. Sometimes it's only a few hours. As a result of this debate, you replied to us with an amendment in the recitals. You see the fundamental scope of a recital in a resolution... It's "resolutionary"! You mentioned a decision of the SNCB Board of Directors stating that nothing would be closed until 2020, underpinned "lively on 1 January 2021". We have tabled an amendment which my colleagues agreed to co-sign, not in the recitals, but in the first request to the government. We asked the government to include in the management contract – the contract we have been waiting for a number of years, Mrs De Coninck, the contract that gives the public service tasks and the real link between the state, which grants the subsidies, and SNCB and Infrabel – the fact that there would no longer be window and station closures. We made this simple request as a guarantee of good faith. Mrs De Coninck, you just have to vote for this amendment, and it is with great pleasure that we will have the opportunity to study the text you have tabled a little more calmly. That would be a good faith clause. If, really, this majority has the ambition to keep the stations, the windows, these beautiful places where travellers are still allowed to meet with rail workers, to make this gesture and the debate will begin on other bases. We will be reassured that this is not a game of fools, which it is for the moment. If you do not vote for this amendment, Mr President, beware of your phone! We will then regret to have to refuse your proposal because it would be based on a wrong basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u250	Mr President, I would like to respond to what my fellow Members have said. They're painting us here like we're cutting down the public service at SNCB. I'd like to formally contradict that. On the contrary, we are expanding public services, making it possible for tickets to be purchased in several places, but through partnerships with private partners. Ladies and gentlemen, that is a difficult situation for you. You would rather leave the traveller in the cold than be open to an alternative via a local entrepreneur, a local trader. That would also be good to help maintain those beautiful station buildings. Mr Lahaye-Battheu indeed referred to it as a conservative attitude in committee. I'll add to that and even call it primal conservative.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u251	Mr President, I agree with what my colleague has just said. Colleagues from the opposition, I would like to thank you for the discussion in committee and here today. However, I would also like to express my disappointment at the fact that you still do not want to see the added value of the resolution, because I do not think it is about wanting to do so. What's it about? Mr Cheron, this is not an alternative, but a complementary offer. It is about a supplementary sales channel, a supplementary possibility to buy products from SNCB, either from local traders near a station, or through shop concessions in station buildings where there is no window today. It is therefore a win-win situation for travellers. I think we should work on this in particular. I call on everyone to approve this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u252	I must admit that for once I am a little disappointed by my colleague Marcel Cheron, whom I have known for forty-five years already. In fact, usually he is less Manichaean than that. In fact, he tried to trap us by saying it was an alternative. What a nenni! This is not an alternative, but a complementary offer. We all know, everywhere in Flanders and Wallonia, stopping points, stations, where there is no one, already for a very long time, even under the ministers of the various parties who are now moving. But often, close to these places, there are shops, shops. We could proceed as we did with the Post Points, which had also raised a great deal of concern at the time of their establishment, and which now render a lot of services, including in the parliament where we also have a Post Point. It is an additional service that is given to our citizens. Service to the public is very important, contrary to what Mr. Devin might think. In this context, we consider this to be a plus. The guarantee that no in-house sales system will be abolished at stations until 2020 is a means of assessing by then how these new complementary points will have developed, and how things will have taken place for the greatest benefit of our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u253	Mr President, I wanted to speak on behalf of our group. We are talking about guaranteeing outlets until 2020. It's tomorrow. It's not a guarantee. It's too short a time frame. The amendment proposed by Mr Cheron was a much better guarantee. Mr Flahaux, as you said yourself, there are sometimes shops or services other than stations near the stations, but there are places where there is nothing at all. If we close the counter, we create a desert. This is not an additional service that you will create: we will completely delete the public service. We can't support a proposal like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u254	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u255	• 7 - Marcel Cheron cs (2125/5) Request/Point 6/1(n) • 6 - Marcel Cheron cs (2125/5) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u256	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u257	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Dirk Van Mechelen, Griet Smaers, Johan Klaps, Benoît Friart, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u258	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt. 85, 4) (997/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (997/4) The title was amended by the Committee in its resolution on the introduction of a limited exemption for driving and rest periods for fuel dealers." The title has been amended by the committee in a motion for a resolution on the introduction of a limited derogation on driving and rest periods for fuel dealers. The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Van den Bergh, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u259	Mr President, I am pleased that the present motion for a resolution is here today. We hope that before the coming winter, the government will respond to the request in the proposal, in particular that a derogation from the regulation of rest and driving times for the supply of heating fuel by fuel dealers in the cold peak moments in winter should be granted to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u260	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u261	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Denis Ducrame, Olivier Chastel, Françoise Schepmans, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Koen Metsu, Katja Gabriëls.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u262	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporters are Mr Buysrogge and Mrs Smeyers. They shall refer to their written report. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the discussion, I would like to inform you that pursuant to Rule 50, a written request has been made by Mr Bonte. I'll read it to you. We wish to see the presence of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice present in the plenary session of the legislative proposal No. 1473 et seq., draft law amending Article 134quinquies of the New Community Law." The reasons given are as follows: "The draft law in question has a strong executive character in the fight against terrorism. During the parliamentary debate in committee, there was no opportunity to discuss this with the ministers. The cabinet staff present mentioned government working groups on this issue." Mr Bonte has the floor for an explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u263	Mr President, despite the late hour, a very important legislative proposal with a particular ambition is to give local administrators and mayors some kind of executive authorisation to act in places that can be described as terrorist. There has been a lot of discussion on this, as witnessed by the fascinating report. You will also read in that report that we have repeatedly called for an exchange of views at least with the executive and the members of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, for the record, the draft law has been dealt with in the Committee on Counter-Terrorism, and there is no systematic request for the presence of the ministers, which is particularly annoying. After all, despite the announcement by the cabinet staff that working groups on the subject and the problem are being organised at government level, it seems to me advisable at least to check whether the legislative proposal before us is in line with government policy. After all, I have doubts about that. Whatever I doubt is whether the proposal complies with the FTF guidelines in the letters sent by Minister Jambon as well as by Minister Geen. It seems to me that some of the provisions go right across the policy. Colleagues, I would like to reiterate that this is a policy area which hopefully does not divide the political world too much, and that we must have the ambition to strengthen the executive power through law in all its forms in order to fight terrorism together. That is why it would be a good thing for the democratic debate and for the search for the right balance and the right legislation that we should also be able to hear the executive, especially Minister Jambon and Minister Geens, on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, we must vote on Mr Bonte's question. I therefore propose that we vote on his question electronically. Anyone who supports Mr Bonte's proposal will vote yes. Anyone who opposes the proposal will vote no.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u265	Mr. President, we're gonna have to ring. This will probably allow us to debate with a more extensive audience. We were still supposed to discuss the subject, and Mr Bonte is reactivating it, but I would like to point out that we have discussed this proposal quite at length in committee, two times, several hours. I would like at least to go back to a few fundamental points in relation to the debate related to this proposal. She's matured for many months. We have obviously had the opinions of the Council of State, which has not stressed any constitutional obstacle. We have had a favourable opinion from the College of Attorneys General. With regard to the government's position on this proposal, we have received a document from the Minister of the Interior in favour of this proposal. Yes, Mr. Bonte. This will be confirmed by the chairman of the committee and by the report, if necessary. There was a favourable opinion on this proposal from Minister Jambon. Look, you'll check it out. I confirm what I just said. I am very surprised that you are reacting in this way because we have insisted on this aspect at length in the debates. It is simply a question, with this proposal, of giving the mayors the latitude to close places where there is suspicion of terrorist offences, as already exists, for example, for trafficking in human beings. We had a debate that went well beyond the divide between the opposition and the majority. Finally, I congratulate and thank the CDH for supporting this proposal in committee alongside the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the question of the presence of the relevant ministers, I would like to draw your attention to one very curious aspect. It is a debate in a very complex issue. In the fight against terrorism, the government is right to take numerous initiatives, both legislative and other, to strengthen the effectiveness of our security services and mayors. Now there is technical legislation for discussion which has not been dealt with in the specialized committee, but in the ad hoc committee. Many opinions were requested, both from local authorities, the VVSG and other umbrella bodies, the Council of State and the Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs. Mr Ducarme, I invite you to read the three sentences put on paper by Minister Jambon. He does not make any statement about the technicality of the bill, but he does say that he wants to pursue the objective, as we all do. In this context, however, the Minister refers to the existence of government working groups dealing with this issue. That is the advice of the Minister of the Interior. That opinion does not express any opinion on the present proposal in its technicality. It is precisely in the technical capacity that we need explanations to get a well coordinated approach from the mayors to the OCAD. For all kinds of reasons, this debate is being withheld from Parliament. Mr President, I also appeal to you as President of the Chamber, asking for such an important legislative proposal to be discussed at least once with those who have to implement it tomorrow, namely the Ministers of the Interior and Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u267	I will put your question to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u268	Mr President, this text we are discussing and will vote on today is important in terms of responsibility for the mayors. I hear Mr Ducrame's point of view and I will have the opportunity to elaborate on my presentation earlier, which takes away the opinion of the Council of State, the Union of Cities and Municipalities, both on the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking side. These opinions were quite critical and we had asked for hearings that were denied to us. We asked for ministers to come and speak on the text in committee. It has also been refused and it is regrettable. Unfortunately, even here in plenary, the minister will not come here to hear our remarks and finally respond to our criticisms. We can only support Mr Bonte's request for ministers to be present to discuss this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u269	I suggest we vote. Who supports Mr Bonte's proposal? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 56 Yes No. 72 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, Mr Bonte's question is not addressed. We shall therefore begin the general discussion. I call Mrs De Wit. Mrs De Wit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u270	Mr President, what is it about? Mr Bonte knows this very well. We have had a good debate on it in committee. It's about closing down establishments, something a mayor can do in human trafficking, in drug offences, in the context of public order. He cannot, however, do so in the context of terra activities. However, local government is on the first line in tackling terrorism and radicalisation. That's her job, too. This is particularly necessary in the context of prevention. It is a matter of being able to act quickly and to guarantee local public security. As you all know, our group has been a long-time asking party to give greater power to local authorities in this context. We are therefore very much in favour of the present legislative proposal. It also provides legal certainty to the mayors. Now they have to resort very often to other rules in the context of spatial planning in order to achieve the same thing, with very often the result that they are flogged back. We are therefore pleased that this will give the local authorities the opportunity to close down establishments. Of course, Mr Bonte, this can only happen after there are serious indications, after consultation with the police and the prosecution and after the decision is justified. Legal guarantees are indeed very important to us and they must be guaranteed. For our group, the proposal could actually go a little further. I'm thinking of closing down places where hate speech is being made, for example, where it encourages... ours would have liked that too. That is not yet the case, but it is also acceptable for our group. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the work is still not complete, but we will very much be happy to support the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u271	Mr President, Article 134 of the communal law, as Mr Ducrame said earlier, gives the mayor the opportunity to close an establishment which would organise trafficking in human beings. This contributes to the ultimate objective, which is to effectively end this traffic. The text under consideration proposes to extend the scope of this article 134 in the same way, and according to the same definitions, to terrorist activities. The aim would be to allow a mayor to close the establishment that would house terrorist activities or, rather, that would, according to a cluster of clues, be able to shelter terrorist activities. In our view, this is not comparable to trafficking in human beings. In fact, closing a place in which people are trapped and forced into forced labour will, for at least one time, disrupt economic activity and, hopefully, allow victims of trafficking to flee from their executioners. With regard to terrorism, closing the doors of an association in which recruiters were at work would not begin the spread of their hate speech until the investigation allowed them to be arrested. The comparison therefore makes no sense, since the situations are fundamentally different. Furthermore, this proposal raises questions and can, if necessary, lead to serious perverse effects. If there are serious and well-founded indications that terrorist or terrorist actions are being held in an institution, should not arrests be made and the justice system be allowed to close it? If investigative duties are still needed, is it not appropriate to allow the police and intelligence services to take the necessary steps? What responsibility for the mayor who would not close a place in which some strange acts were found if an attack resulted? What responsibility does it have if it shuts down an establishment and realizes that it was a mistake and that no illegal activity was carried out there? The economic consequences would be catastrophic. Should it intervene to remedy this, given that it has flouted the freedom of trade and industry? The faithful of a mosque could, for example, consider the decision to be a pretext for challenging their freedom of worship. On the one hand, the mayor will not be able to justify his decision, secret of information and investigation obliges. On the other hand, how can we explain that we are not suing those who cause problems and that we are making a decision that affects everyone? The mayor is already entitled to act within the framework of his powers to maintain public order and security as well as for urban planning reasons, if he has sufficient elements in his possession and if they do not affect the current investigation. During the hearings of the mayors in the Attentats Commission, they did not plead in this sense but, on the other hand, pleaded to be better informed of what was happening in their commune in order to be able to react if necessary, in particular during searches. I would also point out that article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation provides for the obligation of any authority constituted to give notice to the Public Prosecutor of any crime or offence of which he or she is aware. The information given by the mayor to the Public Prosecutor's Office that terrorist offences take place in an institution is likely to result in the deprivation of liberty of the perpetrators, which will put an end to the disorder of public order in the institution. While the police and the judiciary have extremely serious and converging indications of terrorist activities, it is their responsibility to assume their responsibilities and shut down the institution. It is not for a mayor to make this kind of decision, which is extremely burdensome. Moreover, the opinion of the Council of State abounds in this sense when it says: "It is necessary to ask whether it is not more appropriate to entrust the decision not to the mayor but to the judicial authorities in charge of the investigation, prosecution, investigation or judgment of the criminal facts concerned." The Conseil d'État even adds, concerning the prior consultation that "this, with the judicial authorities envisaged in article 134 of the new communal law, as proposed, may, in any event, be unfeasible or, at the very least, inappropriate because of the secrecy of the information and the secrecy of the investigation. Without necessarily being contrary to it, such consultation may also jeopardize respect for the presumption of innocence." The mayor of Molenbeek did not say anything else in committee when she explained that the decision to close the Loqman mosque in Molenbeek was a consequence of the investigation into the attempted attack on the Thalys, although it was true that the closure decision was based on urbanist arguments. The actual closure took place only after several months. During the consultation, the Prosecutor's Office had pointed out that an investigation was under way and had therefore asked to wait before proceeding with the closure. Madam Mayor, we do not see why you would plead today to close a place without having enough elements in hand to bear the consequences, which may be the case tomorrow. The Union of Cities and Municipalities – it is important to take up its opinion – still insists on the fact (I quote) that "it does not appear convincingly that the proposed measure would indeed contribute to the maintenance of public order and the prevention of infringements". Moreover, – I would remind you that this is a question of terrorist activities – there is a great risk that activities will become even more clandestine and, therefore, that control will be even more difficult to carry out. On the basis of such considerations, most mayors, who will be reminded of personal liability in the event of a defect in a file such as this one, consider this proposal to be harmful. I also recall the increasingly difficult situation in many police areas. At best, this bill is strictly unnecessary in the fight against terrorism by disproportionately attacking the rights of operators. It may also be counterproductive in the context of judicial instructions. The Union of Cities and Municipalities concludes in the same way: "A communal administrative measure for the closure of establishments on suspicion of terrorist activities appears to us, as it stands, problematic in relation to the existing legal principle and it seems to us, in this form, unlikely to achieve the ultimate objective of countering and dismantling local networks linked to terrorist organisations." The Flemish counterpart of the Union of Cities and Municipalities does not think otherwise by saying that the bill does not meet its original objective. We are being rehearsed – you have just done so, Mr.Ducarme – with the positive opinion of the College of Attorneys General. On the one hand, it can be summarized as follows: "Your request for an opinion has been discussed and a positive opinion has to be given to you concerning this proposal". Don't you think it's a little short? On the other hand, this task of closure is the responsibility of the police and the judiciary, not the mayors. However, the latter will soon assume this responsibility. That is why we will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u272	Mr President, the point has already been made. However, without wishing to prolong the debate, I would point out that we have already discussed the matter twice for hours and hours. I'll just make a point. We have drawn up the useful amendment by means of an amendment, because we have also listened, Mr Crusnière, to comments from your group on the responsibility of the mayor. We have made every effort to ensure that the decision of this body can be confirmed by the Echevinal College. I consider it important not to leave the mayor alone in the face of such great responsibilities. I do not share, Mr Crusnière, and I say it cordially, your remarks on the inadequacy of this provision with the original objective. You demonstrate this by asking my colleague and referring to a decision that had been made on the basis of urban criteria. That is the problem! We were able to see this again at the hearings held in the Attentats Committee on 22 March. We heard Mr. Bart Somers, mayor of Malines, the best mayor in the world, tell us that, when suspicions of this order appeared, his first initiative was to send fire services to see if the place complied with all the regulations on fire safety, because it had no other track. Your excellent Verviers counterpart also did not hesitate to point out that, sometimes, the rules of planning or in terms of fire service were not enough. The intention expressed in this proposal is to have listened. Otherwise, we would not have debated this long and we would not have proposed amendments which prompted an opposition group to join us. Similarly, we would not have taken into account, Mr Demeyer, what you had said, namely the burden on the mayor alone. We would not have taken care to have his decision validated by the college, in order to get the mayor out of his loneliness. Believe that, behind me, there are members of ephemeral colleges. They also informed me of the necessary sharing of responsibility. We are aware of that. We need to make such arrangements that equip, arm local authorities more, at the forefront of these phenomena, alongside the measures taken by the government, alongside the recommendations that we are preparing to strengthen local authorities, to fight radicalism and terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u273	Mr President, as I have indicated to Mr Ducrame and to some colleagues in the House, I can tell you about my experience as a mayor in the face of this phenomenon. We are right to involve the local authorities, who are concerned, in particular by the police, who have to produce reports. But I do not think the proposed text is adequate. I made the decision to close a mosque for terrorism, not on the basis of the report of the firefighters, but in relation to the King's prosecutor, who handed me sentences, judgements that were put into res judicata, that is, that were not appealed, that were not in cassation. They testified that a certain mosque had been visited by many people convicted of terrorism. I therefore considered that this place was causing disturbances to public order. So I worked on that basis. I did not close the mosque like a café that disturbs the neighborhood by its noise, for a period of six months, as the text proposes. It doesn't make sense. I closed the institution on the basis of what the federal government decides, that is, the level of the threat. As long as we are at threat level 3, the facility remains closed. I can tell you that five or six colleagues in the country can rely on this order, which has not been appealed. This act has a solid legal value. No one did. Why? Because, of course, it's risky. For a local agent as well as for aldermen and a burgundyman. I believe that the local authorities must be involved, but that the decision to close must be taken by the public prosecutor. It is the federal power that must decide the closure in this matter. I consider that here, once again, it is a carry-over from the federal to the local, not only at the financial level, but also in terms of responsibilities. I'm not running away from responsibility. I'm just saying that if we want to achieve the goal, we have to protect the local authorities. Before an assembly like ours, involved in a number of desirable reforms, I do not need to insist on certain aspects. The vote of the Socialist Group is not shy or lax. It is a vote calling for the state to be involved in serious actions and for this very heavy burden not to be carried over on the back of the college or the mayor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u274	Mr President, I regret that we have never been able to discuss this important debate on the role of mayors in tackling terrorism in the presence of the executive. I think that this is a missed opportunity to use more efficient rules and agreements in what the government and, on the other hand, Parliament are doing. I also have a bit of a naive ambition. Then I'm thinking of a general acceptance. I remember the Prime Minister's call for the most effective measures to be sought across party boundaries, across majority and opposition, in cooperation between Parliament and the government, but things are moving as they are. I am absolutely asking for the strengthening of the role of local authorities and mayors to tackle a number of criminal phenomena in local government more decisively. A few months ago, a fascinating debate took place. One talked about armed governance, the other about administrative enforcement. There will be study days. Thought exercises are taking place at all levels of policy, not least at the Flemish level, to find ways to strengthen the local authorities, the mayor with his police powers. I am indeed one of the wealthy platoons of frustrated people who have to observe that a number of legal proceedings take a long time, that a number of cases are easily dismissed, that far too little decisive action is being taken. You also have someone in front of you who is trying to engage in something like a Channel Plan to try to tackle some of the underlying crime phenomena and factors we identify with the government and the police and judicial authorities. I found a verdict at my post earlier from the Gaming Commission in a case in which, thanks to the Channel Plan, we were able to mobilise enough inspectors, local police, federal police, to make effective findings in a very notorious gambling office where many FTFs came to launder money or not to do other things. The raid took place in January 2016. On February 22, 2017, the Gaming Commission decided to withdraw that man's license, although we know that this man is already active in other gambling offices in the same Channel Zone, albeit in Brussels. I would just like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that we are effectively lacking determination and efficiency. There is effective slowness in addressing a number of underlying crime phenomena that are directly linked to radicalism and terrorism. We all need to find the best ways to strengthen ourselves, including at local level. What's in store is a meritorious attempt. I mean that. I also read the opinions, I also read the three sentences of Minister Jambon, who does not say that this is the correct, correct text, but says that he shares the ambition of this bill, as I do. I also read a number of comments from the Council of State and the VVSG. In the absence of an explanation from the government, I must address the proposers. I repeat what the Council of State and the VVSG say. When one speaks of the fact that a mayor can close down Mr Demeyer and others' establishments, what is it about? What kind of establishments are we talking about? Are we talking about the gambling offices? Are we talking cafes? Are we talking about schools? There are a lot of schools known, unfortunately often technical schools, where there are quite a few FTFs or radicalized people are spotted. Then it's about youth homes, football clubs, stations, where quite a lot was recruited. I would like to see those questions that the Council of State is also asking answered. I am addressing the proposers. It remains a bit quiet, but I would like to say in general that it is our duty as legislator to explain, after a majority has pushed the green button, the consequences of the legislative text outside. What is expected of the mayors and what institutions could he or she close? Society expects legislators to be clear. It is our duty to respond clearly to citizens' questions about the effects of the legislative text. My question as to which establishments they are dealing with is never answered. Not even now. But maybe someone else can answer them. Is it about football clubs or boxing associations, for example? Can a mayor, on the basis of the finding that a number of FTF members or persons on the OCAD list are members of a boxing association, close that association on the basis of the new legal text? That goes for cafes, casinos and mosques, I understand. Anything you can do? I see colleagues nodding. So we can also shut down stations? These questions are also raised by the Council of State and, in my view, they result in quake legislation. Another problem concerns the passage on serious indications of terrorism. We have discussed this before, Mrs Schepmans in Brussels and myself in the Flemish context. Following the discussions on the Channel Plan, the question was repeatedly raised as to what are the underlying factors, in which we have to gain access through our police and the courts, and what are the links with terrorism. Is this about people who are listed as radicalised? Is this about people on the so-called OCAD list? Is it about people involved in drug trafficking and possibly financing IS or IS fighters, quod non? In this context, too, my fellow Members, the words'serious evidence' are at least unclear. I would like to hear from the government how it is trying to obtain a final definition through the working groups. Another element that we have discussed for a long time, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that a mayor who intends to close an institution on the basis of terrorism must consult the judicial authorities beforehand. Those are the words of the law. In an interview in Knack last week, Mrs Schepmans, along with many other fellow Members, complained because we are getting far too little information from the judicial authorities. I am an experienced expert and indeed had to find that people were released from prisons without the judicial authorities informing my chiefs about this. One of the major bottlenecks is that the information provided by judicial services is difficult and tricky to local authorities and police services at local level. That is unacceptable. I refer to what Mrs Schepmans repeated in Knack. According to the present legal text, the mayor must address the judicial authorities in advance. This is what mayors often do, especially in cities affected by potential terrorists or radicalised people. What happens if a mayor turns to the court, whoever that is? Imagine if it goes through the prosecutor and he says there's an investigation going on, but he can't say anything about it. Or what if he says there's an investigation going on and he's asking not to act? Then what happens if the mayor finds, on the basis of the law, that he has to act? What happens if the mayor is not fully informed, which is the case today? What happens if he doesn't consult the courts? That would be a good thing to discuss with the ministers responsible. What is completely contrary to the current role of the mayor is the fact that he, as mayor, has to submit his decision to his ship's college to act in this context and to close a café, a casino or an association. The Council of State also asked questions about this, as did the VVSG. It is absurd that the mayor, who has police authority and who has secret information, should subsequently ask his ship's college for approval. I could go on like this for a while. When it comes to terrorism, I think it is rather absurd that hearings should be held first. That's what the bill says. If something is to be closed, because there is potential terrorist activity there, the legislative proposal requires first to invite those concerned to defend themselves, whether or not with a lawyer, and then to assess them and conclude them. Is that the determination we need? Is that what we must and will do effectively? Is that how we're supposed to shut down terrorist networks? Even the Council of State pointed out that this might be counterproductive to the real fight against terrorism, as it may disrupt networks and possibly interfere with the investigation activities of the federal judicial services. In other words, the proposal is completely counterproductive in relation to the government's policy, which seeks to expose networks through judicial actions and investigations and tries to combat potential terrorism effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u275	Mr Bonte, I think it is a very interesting debate. There is a lot of talk about the mayors as experience experts. I'm really happy about that. Several mayors have mentioned that here. I just wonder what would happen in the hemisphere if there were no more mayors and ships. That's the only question I'm asking. [[Laughter and hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u276	That's really the only question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u277	Mr. Bonte, two minutes from now, you'll contradict yourself. You say that we must prevent a terrorist investigation being thwarted by an initiative by the mayor, while the proposal just includes how that can be made impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u278	In what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u279	You know the procedure for this, namely that the mayor should report to the federal prosecutor in connection with a location, which will then answer him whether or not there is a terrorist investigation in progress. The mayor doesn't need any more information at the time. That is sufficient information to make the assessment of the closure. That is quite clear, but you are constantly confusing that and you are constantly contradicting yourself in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u280	Mr Yüksel, your piste is very interesting and close to what I would like to advocate. I am merely asking a number of questions here, including questions from the Council of State, the VVSG and others, to which I do not get an answer and on which I certainly do not know the opinion of the government. I certainly don't know the government's opinion on that, perhaps because I shouldn't know them. In any case, Mr Yüksel, you are making an interesting point. If I'm gonna close something up as mayor, I'm gonna have to go to the courts, the district attorney. I have just explained what happens when the prosecutor says he doesn't trust me and he only gives half the information he can have very good reasons for that or doesn't give any information. Is it really up to the mayor to decide if he's raiding or not? That's the question. I would go along with your plea that a mayor should be given the authority to activate the federal prosecutor's office, if necessary, in conjunction with the prosecutor's office. After all, I will be faced with the choice at a certain time whether I act with half or no information in networks and send the people of the local police there, networks whose background, composition, links and danger are unknown. That's exactly my point. I do believe that a mayor should have much more power to activate those who are truly equipped to do so and have the constitutional power to act against terror. Maybe that piste is much more fertile. In any case, I would like to discuss that slope with the government because I know that this is being discussed in the government's working groups. However, the majority now suddenly needs a symbol or legislative proposals have been distributed among a few majority parties which need to be adopted suddenly. This completely ignores the efficiency of tackling terrorist problems in our cities. Mr Degroote, if I am not mistaken, you are also mayor. There is much to be said about whether or not mayors should be in Parliament. Each party seems to be working on that. As mayor, you will also know the FTF Directive of August 2015. You may also be informed about the COL 15 of the Attorney General. Those two correspondences regulate the flow of information between the judicial authorities, the federal police forces, the local police forces, the OCAD and the local level, that is to say, the mayors. Like all the other mayors in our country, you are also involved. Take a good look at the contents of that letter. Mrs Schepmans, myself and other mayors express the frustration of getting far too little information. Appointments are in a number of cases only partially or not fulfilled. There are agreements in that letter. Compare it to the bill. According to the present bill, a local mayor should, when he intends to act, address the judicial authorities. It is suggested that the courts are obliged to make all the information they have available available to the mayor. That is completely contrary to the agreements in the letters. The problem is that these letters are addressed to mayors and police chiefs and have a confidential label. The point is that what is in this legal text is contrary to the agreements that have been reached, after difficult negotiations between the judicial authorities and the police, between the Interior and Justice, in order to be able to pass on confidential information. Now we are here on a Thursday night approving a law that will allow every mayor to go to the courts to demand all the information. That is why I am asking the party to find out with the government whether this is correct, whether it is in line with what the Ministers Jambon and None have written down in the letter and gave to us as a responsibility. I would have liked to have answered this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u281	I didn't see the meeting in committee. I only read the text briefly. I do not see the need for the judicial authorities to make all the information available. I don't think your statement is factually correct. If they are still factually correct, you are referring to a letter, but this is a legislative initiative. A debrief can't overrule a law. If a law comes into being which differs from a letter of conversion, then that letter of conversion must be amended. A debrief can never be against the law. The law will always take precedence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u282	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, that is just my point. We're going to pass a bill here. Please read the report. Quite a few member-holders are convinced that the judicial authorities must provide all the information. I have not been able to check with the Minister, either with the Justice Department or with the Home Office. However, if we adopt a law here, this means that the very important letter COL15 and the rules governing the distribution of information by the Justice Department, which are laid down therein, risk being completely crossed by the legal initiative. That is why it is really important to be able to conduct the debate in the presence of the ministers. However, as has been said, we have not been allowed to do so. Colleagues, I'm finishing up. It is a pity that the debate is partially sterilized in this way. There is also a great deal to be said about the role and figure of a mayor, who has so far been responsible for public order, which is the essential difference. He is now acting in the context of terrorism, terrorism networks or terrorism-related crime. That's a big difference. He can therefore, in a manner of speaking, close everything for six months if he has links, information or indications that the places in question have something to do with terrorism. Whether it's an OCAD or a brother of someone who's in Syria, I don't know. Apparently, no one knows right now. I would also like to point out that there is also a risk of arbitrariness in this area. There is also a capacity problem for the mayors. Mrs Schepmans, I read in the same article as before that so far in Molenbeek there have been a lot of screenings of non-profit organisations, you mention the figure of 102 such associations, which can be associated with Islam radicalism or serious crime, such as arms and drug trafficking. These are 102 non-profit organisations, which are apparently linked by you and your services to Islam radicalism and organised crime. Mrs Schepmans, the question I have is a personal question to you. Do you feel strengthened by the present law to close all 102 non-profit organisations? On the basis of which criteria will be laid down and on the basis of which decisions will be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u283	Mr Bonte, since you are calling on me, this is an opportunity to respond to some of your speeches. I consider this proposal to be a preventive tool. Of course, this possibility given to the mayors is not a solution. We agree with that. However, ordering the closure of an establishment can only be done on the basis of serious evidence. When we decide to close a facility for drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, we always do so on the basis of serious evidence, which is reported to us by the police in particular. We will therefore have to act in the same way for those places where violent radicalism could develop. Therefore, this is necessarily a temporary measure, taken for a maximum of six months. In any case, I hear that it is carried out in consultation with the federal government, with the judicial authorities. One cannot imagine shutting down an institution for acts of violent radicalism without such consultation. It already exists today and will have to continue in the same way. I was forced to close several places. I used the tool of urban planning or human trafficking, when I knew that there were also facts of radicalism. I could have been confronted with a situation where the place would have met these urban standards, where there would have been no illegal work. These are situations in which we can be better armed in the future. I say and repeat: this proposal is a real preventive tool that we can use, which will be temporary. And it is necessarily, in my view, the judiciary that will have to take over. But if the institution cannot act quickly, we will at least be able to ensure this protection and put it out of place for a specified period of time to harm this institution, the people who frequent it or propagate hate speech in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u284	Mr President, I would quickly like to add two things. First, how are we going to objective these notions, because we are in the rule of law? For my part, I had the chance to receive judgments cast into res judicata and which are indisputable. On this point, we know - and we are here in the highest assembly in the country - how much we need to be eye-browsful and vigilant, otherwise, Mr Miller, we will trigger phenomena that we are studying in the Attentats Committee, namely stigma and other concerns, and we will trigger radicalism where it is not. Secondly, we have in this House a number of mayors of which at least two or three could, on the basis of the case-law I referred to, take decisions in an objective and non-disputable manner. Mr President, I am ready to send you this document. I would ask that it be sent to all the groups and that the colleagues concerned be able to draw useful inspiration from it. Here, what we are offered is to deal with an extremely important matter as if we were talking about a noisy coffee or a coffee on the tables where we found a little powder several times and closed for three months, six months and then we reopen it. It's not serious! Either we close; or we leave open, but we rely on principles that are clear, clear and precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u285	We always act on the basis of serious evidence, even when it comes to trafficking in human beings, even when it comes to drug trafficking. Needlessly, we have reports that are substantiated. I, in any case, can assure you that all the closing decisions I have made have been based on serious evidence. I cannot imagine that responsible mayors could close institutions because they would have heard that individuals were gathering by holding problematic speeches. No, we also need serious clues. This must necessarily be done in consultation with the judicial authorities. It is obvious to me that this will be the case if a decision is to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u286	Mr President, I obviously did not participate in the work that led to this text. I hear the arguments raised by each other. If the Ministers of Justice and the Interior had been present, we might have some more precise answers to the legitimate questions that arise. To hear you discuss this subject, and to hear Mrs Schepmans in particular, I ask myself a question. We refer to opinions from judicial authorities, which are given credit. I imagine that if we make this request, it is that there is information, that the judicial authorities are aware of it and that they are going to go in the desired direction of the closure of the institution. Why, then, should this be the responsibility of the mayor? Why can the judicial authority itself not take this decision, if it has clues, if it shares them with the mayor. Why should the mayor take the measure instead of the judicial authority which has the same information? I would still like to be explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u287	I understand that the government is not needed in this debate. Well, I regret that the government is not needed in this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate shows that there are at least questions. Mrs Schepmans, you and I, and other fellow Members here, have a number of common experiences. We have a number of common wretched problems. I believe that we also have a number of common frustrations. One of these frustrations is that, in application of the legislation to prevent cases, we must already have objective dossiers, have clear indications, hold hearings, and then often be flagged back to details by the Council of State. Preventive actions sometimes fail. But this is about nuisance, about drug problems, about noise, about certain types of crime. However, this is about terrorist activities, ladies and gentlemen. I agree with you, Mrs Schepmans, that the conversation you have with the prosecutor will be essential to intervene with all conscience. You mean by that that it will actually be the prosecutor who decides. If the prosecutor decides that we can close, Mrs Schepmans, then you and I and other mayors must ensure that the federal judicial services act efficiently very quickly. It's their core task. It's their mission. They've got the armed police for it. They have the specialized brigades for it, which your corps doesn't have and which my corps doesn't have. We must therefore consider whether a mayor can effectively use facts that he can link to terrorism as objective facts to get federal police and federal judicial services to move in order to do what he will otherwise have to do, which is to take great risks. Mrs Schepmans, I do not envy you if you, also publicly, say that in your congregation 102 non-profit organisations are linked to Islamic radicalism, serious crime or arms and drug trafficking. If that is the case, Mrs Schepmans, we have to ask ourselves why, in a country that has been living under terror for a few years and where there are emergencies, the federal prosecutor is still not taking action against these 102 non-profit organisations. That is the essence of the debate. What we share is a court that barely works. As a result, as mayors, we have to get to grips with these matters. I can't. It could weaken your terrorism policy. It traverses what the government is trying to do, also with opposition support. You are missing the comparison between tackling terrorism at the local level and tackling drug problems or noise pollution, as if it were the same. Think also about the risks in which colleagues will find themselves when mayors will effectively take essential decisions in the context of terrorism. I believe there is a danger in that for the integrity and the person of the mayor. That is also an element that is not being discussed. Mayors are under threat in this country, not so long ago, I understand. Now, this law opens the door to bringing all these mayors into society in a very vulnerable way. I would like to conclude with an appeal, Mr President. I would ask that this be reviewed, including from the government's point of view, if necessary without a parliamentary debate. It would be a good thing to have this law reviewed by the federal government before it is approved and by letters of conversion when the FTF Directive is completely crossed. I hope, it is my last hope, that this will not end the debate on strengthening the administrative approach to crime phenomena or to the armed administration, but that a local director will be able to act much harder and more efficiently against some of the underlying nuisances of organised crime, up to and including potentially terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u288	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we debated this proposal during two meetings of the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism, each time for more or less two hours. Yet we feel that we have not been to the bottom of the debate. Hearings have been refused, although it is true that opinions have been requested. Still, today, there are many outstanding issues. Many fundamental remarks, which relate to the core of the bill under consideration, have not been fully considered. The fight against terrorism must also be carried out at the local level. Tools must therefore be developed for this purpose. My group is convinced that this is important. Reference has already been made to the hearings in the Committee of Inquiry of which I am a member. The local level is fundamental. Various mayors belonging to different political parties have explained this to us. After having received a refusal concerning the organisation of hearings, a whole series of opinions were requested. We've already quoted them. There was the opinion of the Union of Walloon Cities and Municipalities and that of its Flemish equivalent, the VVSG. These opinions are very critical, if not very negative. In any case, they do not see the necessity or the added value of the proposal before us. There has also been the opinion of the Council of State, which has been cited many times in committee, but also here in plenary. The opinion raises key questions. It is not just a question of saying that we are debating this opinion in order to drag things on. Indeed, at the last meeting of the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism we were accused of wanting to drag the debate on, of wanting to delay parliamentary work. That is absolutely not what this is about. In committee, I asked five specific questions which are relayed by the Council of State, the Union of Walloon Cities and Municipalities and the VVSG. This is frustrating and leads us to continue the debate but also to repeat these questions. I will therefore take up these five points and I hope that you will be able to answer them. First, the significant interference in the freedom of trade and industry guaranteed to those in charge of the closed establishment. For this reason, proportionality must be demonstrated convincingly. That's the first question I asked you. The second point is that it is worth considering whether it is not appropriate to entrust the decision, not to the mayor, but to the judicial authorities in charge of the investigation, prosecution, investigation or judgment of the criminal facts concerned. The third point relates to the prior consultation with the judicial authorities envisaged in the new article, which may, in any event, be unfeasible or, at the very least, inappropriate because of the secrecy of information and investigation. The fourth point is that it does not appear convincingly that the proposed measure would indeed contribute to the maintenance of public order and the prevention of the offences concerned. The last point relates to the comparison with the article concerning all narcotics, psychotropics, soporifics, and therefore drugs. The Council of State considers that terrorist offences are of a different nature and would have different impacts depending on the text proposed here. Conclusion of the Council of State: "The closure measure envisaged by the proposal under consideration may be considered disproportionate because it is useless. In relation to its violation of the fundamental freedoms of the operator or owner of the establishment, the proposal under consideration will be reviewed in the light of the above considerations." All of these questions, of these fundamental remarks, relayed also by all the people we interviewed in writing, remain unanswered. This is fundamental in terms of being able to have effective, proportionate and equipped at the local level to combat terrorism. This is not the case. We have already had the debate but we are waiting for your answers. I am speaking to the authors of the text. In the way the text is formulated, with the serious shortcomings reported by the Council of State, my group cannot support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u289	Mr President, as our colleague Christian Brotcorne said earlier, it was Mr Dallemagne who represented the CDH in committee. He's not here for health reasons. I would not like to speak on his behalf but would like to echo all the considerations expressed, without seeking to reconcile each other. It is clear that this debate raises fundamental questions. It is true that it would have been better to have the competent ministers with us to go to the bottom of the discussion. There is no doubt that there is a problem: involving local authorities in a process of combating terrorism. The answer to this problem is not easy. Today, most mayors do not have access to the information they should need to carry out concrete actions. The current situation is not satisfactory. It can be seen that in a number of cases the measures to be taken by the mayors are based on certain arguments. Invoking urban considerations to pursue a safety objective, objectively, is not satisfactory. This situation cannot therefore continue. The answer given by the text is certainly imperfect, but it is an element of answer. It is a tool that can actually be used. Our position is not that of a beat enthusiasm for a solution that would solve everything. But this is a step forward if we focus on the sense of responsibility of the actors concerned: the mayors and the judicial authorities. This is where the solution must be sought, in this connection between the local authorities, the mayors and the public prosecutor's offices. This articulation is not going to be easy to implement, but it is necessary to move forward in order to have more effective tools than those used now, for lack of better ones. Some questions are not answered in the debate. More could be added to all those already expressed. This text is based on the one that was voted, I think, on a very large majority on trafficking in human beings. At the same time, it's a bit different. The first provided that the decision to close was finally brought to the attention of the municipal council, while the text now before us provides that the decision to close is confirmed by the municipal college. In my view, this difference was not explained during the debates in committee. This is proof that we are groping and advancing without having a definitive and sure answer. What is important to me is that, if necessary, the actors concerned can be given the opportunity to act. Although the text before us is incomplete and imperfect, it consolidates the legal tool available to the various stakeholders. Beyond the vote that will take place, I believe it is important to carry out a genuine assessment of the provision both in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in the fight against terrorism. It will be necessary to be able to take stock after a few months or years of implementation and to draw lessons from the implementation of this provision. This assessment may lead us to revise the text or to change it, but we will at least have taken a first step towards consolidating the tools available to judicial and local actors in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u290	Mr President, like other members of this House, I have asked myself about the effectiveness of the measure proposed to us. I am not at all closed to the debate. I do not consider that this should remain the sole competence of the judicial authorities. I therefore found that Mr Demeyer's speech had raised the debate. First of all, I would like to point out to the authors that it is not enough to copy and paste a 2011 text to consider that all legal comments would be withdrawn because a provision had been adopted at the time – a provision which had not, moreover, been the subject of an opinion of the Council of State. I am not sure that today it is frequently executed by the mayors. In this regard, I would be happy to receive statistics on how many of them apply Article 134quinquies of the new communal law. In my opinion, this is quite marginal, if not quite exceptional. However, here we are talking about a subject of quite another gravity and another risk. Let's not hide it! This includes the risk of annihilating the judicial and investigative work of the police in a highly sensitive matter. I am assured that, of course, this will be done in consultation with the judicial authorities. "Concertation" does not mean "the right of veto" of the judicial authorities. This does not imply that a mayor, who wants to give himself a bit of strength to public opinion, says that he met with the prosecutor's office, which recommended caution in so far as he would risk annihilating the work of the magistrates. This mayor will reply that he has received testimony from residents who consider him inactive: "Mr. Mayor, we know that there is a terrorist threat. We bring you clues found on Facebook and other social networks", so many sources that are sometimes unverifiable. Under the strong pressure of its administrators, you will eventually see a mayor facing a dilemma. In addition, he will be told that his personal political responsibility and civil liability are involved. However, the authors of the proposal have no scruples in considering that the mayor must act in these circumstances. What's he gonna do? He must summon the suspect author and state in his letter – otherwise, his measure may be attacked before the Council of State –: "Sir or Madam (finally, I suppose it will be more often 'Sir'), you are asked to come to see me under the new legal provision. I've collected the serious clues here. I'll list them for you." Do you seriously think that the people concerned are going to rush to the mayor's house? First, they will be able to relocate their meeting places. The fanfaren burger - for there will be one who will consider that his hour of glory has arrived thanks to your disposition - will say: "Come and see me! And if you don't come to me, I'll close your establishment!" Your measure is derisory: it has a matamoresque side, with no real effect. However, I am tabling an amendment because an assumption would justify this process. This would be the case with the public prosecutor, who, for reasons of his own nature and which he must appreciate, would ask the mayor to take a measure of administrative police and, no doubt, in hypotheses on the margins of his work. Let us imagine that, in an institution, information is exchanged related, perhaps, to activities related to the commission of terrorist acts, such as money laundering activities! It is interesting for the prosecutor's office that the mayor takes an administrative police measure. This procedure will not affect the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office and its investigative work, but it will be useful to him. It must be carried out at the express request of the public prosecutor. That is why I am tabling an amendment! If you are responsible and really concerned about the fight against terrorism, you should accept my amendment. Indeed, it allows the execution of an administrative police measure by the mayor at the express request of the public prosecutor. This text will prevent you from taking the risk of nullifying the effective work of the police and judicial authorities in the fight against terrorism. The rest of the proposals are advertising effects, sometimes even irresponsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u291	Mr President, I am looking at our colleagues in the majority. I think it is a really exciting debate and, I must say, it is fundamental elements that have been exchanged and we feel, both in the majority and in the opposition, that there is a desire to go a little further in examining the arguments of each other, in particular of the men and women on the ground who are the mayors. I therefore wondered whether, on the basis of the amendments that have now been tabled, we could not agree to postpone the matter to the Committee on the Interior to go further in the arguments exchanged. If this is not the case, it may also be interesting, with the agreement of the majority, to ask the Council of State to consider the amendment in such a way that we can have that time to reach a consensus between us. It's not a will to save time. It's an important file. I would like to ask colleagues in the majority and in the opposition whether this would not allow an interesting debate in committee to follow up on our exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u292	Mr President, in the same vein, it is clear that we are at the heart of a fundamental debate. We've already said that on several occasions. We can see that some fellow mayors are asking real questions which, personally, I find intriguing. I think we should be able to answer that. Amendments are proposed. There is really a constructive approach here. We are at a time when there may be an opportunity to move forward together. I therefore ask the Presidents, both of the House and of the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism, to continue the discussion in committee. Either the opinion of the Council of State could be sought on certain amendments, constructively with the colleagues of the majority, or we could go back to committee. This can be done very quickly to discuss precisely these fundamental elements that have been heard and which make one another hesitant. I think that here we are at a time when we could imagine moving forward together constructively either with a new committee meeting or with the advice of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u293	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Onkelinx and Mr Vanden Burre for their suggestion, but I will simply say that this proposal has been under consideration for months. We discussed this at some length last year. We have discussed this for hours in committee, before we also discuss and vote on amendments. Mr Maingain, your amendment is great. It's a shame you didn't introduce it earlier in the committee. Mr Demeyer, you propose to send us a paper. That's very good, but it might have been useful, too, to do it earlier. The debate took place at a very long time. He's been exhausted. I ask that we proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u294	Mr President, I wish to support what was said a few moments ago. Compared to such an important subject, we must go beyond the majority/opposition divides. We must be brought together to fight terrorism. We see here that the text still needs to be studied at the level of the Committee on Justice or the Interior, or of the two committees together, with a view to clarifying, in particular, the assent of the Prosecutor's Office in order to avoid problems. I would like to thank Mr Ducrame, who welcomed the work done together at committee level. We must work hand in hand, majority and opposition. Here, there is the possibility, very calmly and very quickly, of clarifying the text, and I agree with Mr Maingain, in order to avoid that, following popular pressure, a mayor should take an unfortunate initiative after telephone consultation with the public prosecutor and that this would lead to the worst, that is to say, that investigations should be undermined. It is also that which must animate us. I understand Mrs Schepmans' concerns, which we share. We are in the communal majority together. We know that there have been difficulties in implementing certain closures. But with regard to potential judicial investigations, in our view, there must at least be a assent of the prosecutor's office, and not just a consultation. This makes it possible to act very quickly, to give the mayor's hand, but to do so in concert, and more than in consultation, with the assent of the prosecutor's office. The message I'm sending is: work together, majority and opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u295	Mr Lutgen, thank you. As a reminder, this is a proposal inspired by the CDH. You see, sometimes it happens to us. We drew on Mrs Matz's proposal on trafficking in human beings, which had been voted unanimously and did not involve a request for assent. On the other hand, and that's what we've been doing for months, with the CDH, we've gone beyond the majority-opposition divides. You were represented on this committee by Mr Dallemagne. We have collaborated very effectively. He was very satisfied. He voted in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u296	Mr President, to bounce back on what Mr Ducrame has just said, we have indeed in this House - I think it was unanimous - voted on a relatively similar text on trafficking in human beings. I think the context was different from the one we know today. I was concerned earlier about this text and wanted to verify compliance with each other. What was voted on about trafficking in human beings was to say that the mayor had personal competence - after consultation with the judicial authorities - and that he informed the municipal council a posteriori of the decision he had taken. In the text proposed to us today, the mayor certainly has a power but it is no longer a personal power since we ask that it be confirmed at the next sitting, by the members of his communal college. Which means that the authority that finally makes the decision is not the mayor, but the college. I find the text in the version "Trafficking in Human Beings" more interesting, since it does give personal power to the mayor, and then informs the municipal council. If we have the opportunity, through Mr Maingain's amendment and the amendment that I am also going to table, Mr President, and I am going to read, to revise the text, we may be able to align the two procedures so as to avoid, in the same text of the new communal law, similar forms of procedure, procedural purposes which are no longer so. It would be in our interest to ensure that our texts are the same in both situations: trafficking in human beings and the treatment of terrorism. Mr President, in the text proposed to us, which deals with prior consultation with the judicial authorities, I propose inserting "and their assent"; after hearing the responsible person, the judicial authorities would therefore also need the assent of the judicial authorities in order for the mayor to take the decision to close an establishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u297	Mr President, I think that at this advanced hour we are working quite efficiently and pragmatically. We are always there to help the majority, even if it is in a situation of self-conflict, as with this proposal. Mrs Onkelinx and others have made a very reasonable proposal for the text to be considered. This is the advantage of cumulation, as long as it still exists: it is seen and felt that mayors have doubts about the present measures. One sees and feels the doubt, one sees and feels the uncertainty. There are two options. Either we decide together to send the proposal back to committee and perhaps it can be re-examined in plenary within a reasonable time. Either we count the headlines in the opposition, which is fairly numerous and is better organized than the majority, who just failed to reach a quorum in the vote forced by Mr Bonte, and is sent to the Council of State. There is no urgency for the proposal, so that takes at least a month. This does not seem to me to be the most efficient and pragmatic approach. In this sense, I invite Mr Ducarme to return the text to committee, so that the delay may be limited. If not, dispatch to the Council of State at the request of 50 Members of Parliament. I think the first option is the better option.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u298	Mr President, first of all, I will briefly repeat what others have said. I believe that the importance cannot be underestimated of a typical form of legislation in the difficult context of terrorism. We find the greatest possible consensus to allow the figure of the mayor in our society, whether in the north, the south or the center of the country, to make his contribution to tackling a number of crime phenomena. The importance of working with the greatest possible unanimity should not be underestimated. Secondly, Mr Ducarme says that we have been discussing the bill for months. I believe that the text has been discussed two or three times. We have always committed ourselves to being present at the debates. Once again, on behalf of my party, I am committed to playing our part in the discussions and not to remain absent or to fillibus. Thirdly, there are a lot of questions on the table, which are also best looked at by the government. The whole discussion took place without any member of the government being present for one minute. My position is that we should look at the bill together with the government to see if it is consistent and coherent with government policy. I doubt that. Finally, Mr Maingain has just referred to a point which we discussed for a long time in committee. In my view, safety barriers should also be included or at least discussed in order to prevent mayors, whether in good faith or not, from being able to intervene in ongoing investigations because of muscle or profiling urge. These are terrorist investigations, which are always very complex, very often run internationally and are often linked to other forms of criminal activity. We must ensure that mayors do not intervene blindly in that research work. That is why I asked at committee meetings to hear the federal prosecutor, perhaps the least-favoured man in our country in recent years, so that we would know his opinion on this. We are launching all these proposals from a constructive point of view. After all, we must do everything we can to get the miserable problem of potential terrorism out of our society as quickly as possible. That is what we can do together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we proceed to the vote. First of all, as Mr Brotcorne and Mr Maingain have explained, there are two amendments: - No 5 by Mrs Caprasse and Mr Maingain; - No 6 of MM. Brotcorn and Dispa. The first point on which we are voting is the question of sending this proposal back to committee together with the amendments. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 57 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber rejects the request for referral to committee Consequently, the Court rejects the request for referral back to committee. Now comes the question of asking for the opinion of the Council of State on the two above-mentioned amendments. For the sake of completeness, I would add that an urgent opinion cannot be delivered in this case. You know that the Council of State is following another path. An urgent request for an opinion is only possible if there is factual justification. We shall now proceed to an electronic count to see if there are 50 Members who support this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u300	(Steming/Vote 3)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u301	Accordingly, the advice of the Council of State will be sought in accordance with Rule 98.3 of the Rules of Procedure. Consequently, the opinion of the Council of State will be requested in accordance with Rule 98 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u302	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u303	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u304	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u305	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2291/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2291-3) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises concerning the granting by Belgocontrol of disponibility with waiting money and leave with waiting money prior to retirement." The title in French has been amended by the committee in "Bill amending the Act of 21 March 1991 reforming certain public economic enterprises with regard to the granting by Belgocontrol of a waiting period and a pre-pension leave with waiting treatment". The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u306	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u307	The mandate of the members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on embryos in vitro expired on 21 June 2016. The terms of office of the members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos expired on June 21, 2016. By letter dated 16 February 2017, Mr P. Facon, Director-General of the Public Health Office, notified the applications submitted in the Belgian Official Journal of 21 November 2016 as a result of the call for candidates. By letter dated 16 February 2017, Mr.P. Facon, Director General of the Public Health FPS, shall forward the applications which have been submitted following the call to the candidates published in the Belgian Monitor of 21 November 2016. In accordance with Article 9 (2) of the Law of 11 May 2003 on embryo research in vitro, the Commission shall consist of: - eight doctors (four effective members and four alternates); - eight PhDs in science (four effective members and four alternates); - four lawyers (two effective members and two alternates); - eight experts in the ethical and social sciences (four effective members and four alternates). In accordance with Article 9(2) of the Act of 11 May 2003 on research into in vitro embryos, the Commission shall consist of: - eight medical doctors (four actual members and four alternate members); - eight Doctors of Science (four full members and four alternate members); - four jurists (two effective members and two alternate members); - eight experts in ethical matters and social sciences (four active members and four alternate members). The Public Health Office reported only nineteen applications, while at least twenty-eight applications are necessary to complete the Federal Commission. The Public Health FPS only forwards nineteen applications, while twenty-eight applications are required in order to make up the entire Federal Commission. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 March 2017, I propose that you ask the Public Health Office to publish a new call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 March 2017, I propose that you ask the Public Health FPS to publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u308	As a result of the resignation of Ms Camille Dieu, a fourth call for candidates for a mandate of female French-speaking member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category "Former Members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate" was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 27 January 2017, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 19 January 2017. Following the resignation of Camille Dieu, a fourth call for candidates for a French-speaking female member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category "Former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate" appeared in the Moniteur belge of 27 January 2017, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 19 January 2017. No application was submitted within the prescribed time limit. No applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 March 2017, I propose that you publish a fifth call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 March 2017, I propose that you publish a fifth call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u309	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 19 January 2017, a fifth call to candidates for the mandate of alternate non-notary member of the French-speaking Appointment Commission for the Notary has been published in the "Lecturer or Professors of Law" category in the Belgian Official Journal of 23 January 2017. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 19 January 2017, a fifth call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 23 January 2017 for the term of non-notary alternate member to the Commission de nomination pour le notariat de langue française, category "charged de cours ou profession de droit". The following candidacy was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Ms Christine Biquet, ordinary professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Liège. The following candidacy was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Ms Christine Biquet, ordinary professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Liège. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 March 2017, Ms Christine Biquet's CV will be delivered to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 March 2017, Ms Christine Biquet's curriculum vitae will be forwarded to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u310	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various economic provisions, No. 2331/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the bill on various economic provisions, No. 2331/1. Minister, I give you the floor so that you can share the government's motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u311	Mr President, this is an urgent request for provisions to be adopted by 30 April 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u312	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u313	Mr President, I do not blame the minister who, in my opinion, has been surrounded. Normally, an emergency motivation explains why it's urgent. It is not just a matter of saying that it is urgent because it is urgent! No, in the Conference of Presidents, it is said that we must go a little further!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u314	We take note of the remark made by Mrs Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u315	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 March 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mr Veli Yüksel and Mr Vincent Van Peteghem and Mrs Els Van Hoof) on reporting on the application of binding legal acts and compliance with the primary law of the European Union, No. 2332/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u316	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu) amending the law of 16 March 1968 on the police on road transport as regards remedial examinations and investigations following a conviction that the right to direct should lapse, No. 2340/1. - the legislative proposal (Mr Jef Van den Bergh) abolishing the waiting period after the expiry of a provisional driving licence for category B vehicles, No. 2342/1. - the legislative proposal (Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke cs) amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 laying down general rules for the police of road traffic and the use of public roads in order to generalise the use of road signs B22 and B23, No. 2347/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u317	- the proposal (Mr Peter Vanvelthoven cs) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to finalise the mandate of the special committee on 'international tax fraud/Panama Papers', No. 2344/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u318	- the bill (Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Benoît Lutgen and Mrs Catherine Fonck) establishing the status of victims of an act of war or terrorism, No. 2335/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u319	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 March 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Servais Verherstraeten, Veli Yüksel and Vincent Van Peteghem and Mrs Els Van Hoof) on the report on the application of binding legal acts and respect for European Union primary law, No 2332/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u320	- the proposal for a law (Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu) amending the Law of 16 March 1968 on the Road Traffic Police with regard to reintegration examinations following a conviction to a deprivation of the right to drive, No. 2340/1. - the draft law (Mr Jef Van den Bergh) abolishing the waiting period after the expiry of the period of validity of a provisional driving licence for category B vehicles, No 2342/1. - the bill (MM. Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke et al.) amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 on the general regulation on the police of road traffic and the use of public roads with a view to generalizing the use of signs B22 and B23, No 2347/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u321	- the proposal (Mr Peter Vanvelthoven et al.) to establish a parliamentary committee of inquiry to finalize the task of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers, No. 2344/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u322	- the bill (MM. Georges Dallemagne and Benoît Lutgen and Mrs Catherine Fonck) to create a status as a victim of an act of war or terrorism, No. 2335/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u323	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u324	Mr President, I would like to ask for urgent consideration of the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry (No. 2344/1). It is a very limited task of the current special committee, "Panama Papers', in which witnesses stated that they are covered by professional secrecy and are therefore unable to say anything. That is why we wish to place this limited mandate in a committee of inquiry, so that these testimonies can be made in the correct manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u325	I propose that we express our opinion on urgency in the usual way, sitting and getting up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u326	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 22 February 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission of 22 February 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 202/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Griet Smaers and by Messrs. Peter Dedecker et Luk Van Biesen. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 202/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Griet Smaers and by Mr Peter Dedecker and Mr Luk Van Biesen. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u327	Yes 78 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u328	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 76 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1851/17) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1851/17) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Vercamer has voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u329	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 87 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft. (2350/1) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be forwarded as a bill to the Senate. (2350/1) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u330	Vote on Amendment No 67 by Christian Brotcorne on Article 10. (697/13) Vote on Amendment No 67 by Christian Brotcorne to Article 10. (697/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u331	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[113]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (697/14) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (697/14) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Ms Jadin voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u332	Vote on Amendment No 29 by Mrs Catherine Fonck on Article 2. (2248/9) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Mrs Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (2248/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[19]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 20 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 2. (2248/9) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 2. (2248/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 53 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted with an improvement in the text. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted with a correction of text. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr De Roover voted against. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 5. (2248/9) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 5. (2248/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 44 Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 25 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 5. (2248/9) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 5. (2248/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 26 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 5. (2248/9) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 5. (2248/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 33 Yes No. 81 Non Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 24 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 6. (2248/9) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 6. (2248/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[46]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted with an improvement in the text. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted with a correction of text. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 23 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 7. (2248/9) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 7. (2248/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 53 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted with an improvement in the text. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted with a correction of text. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 22 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 8. (2248/9) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 8. (2248/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Nollet has voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Frédéric Daerden cs inserting an article 10/1(n). (2248/9) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Frédéric Daerden cs to insert an Article 10/1(n). (2248/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u333	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 of Evita Willaert cs inserting an article 13/1(n). (2248/9) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Evita Willaert cs to insert an Article 13/1(n). (2248/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 44 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u334	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 82 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2248/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2248/11) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u335	Mr President, I abstained because of a vote with Mr Van Mechelen. That abstention also applies to the first item on the agenda and will also apply to all the forthcoming votes at the present sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u336	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 132 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2289/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2289/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u337	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Marcel Cheron cs inserting a request 1(n). (2125/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Marcel Cheron cs to insert a request 1(n). (2125/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 53 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Heeren voted against. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Marcel Cheron cs inserting a request 6/1(n). (2125/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Marcel Cheron cs to insert a point 6/1(n). (2125/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u338	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u339	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 81 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2125/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2125/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u340	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 55 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (997/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (997/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u341	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 126 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2291/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2291/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Calvo and Mr Nollet and Mrs Van Cauter voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-09-54-plenair-ip160x.u342	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 16 March 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 16 March 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 16 March 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 16 March 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
