ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, just yesterday we paid tribute in a dignified and serene manner to the victims of the terrorist attacks of 22 March, or now England is in the heart of London, just before the British Parliament, without a doubt a symbolic place. Once again, terror, death, wounded: a shock that has been felt all over Europe. This cowardly attack cost the lives of several people and resulted in several injuries, including young students. The perpetrators of attacks and violence are clearly aimed at destroying individual freedoms and democracy. We must strongly condemn this fanaticism that feeds terrorism. It is the very negation of humanity, this humanity imbued with differences and therefore with respect. The British authorities made it clear last night that they will not rest until they have called the perpetrators and instigators of this atrocity to account. A number of arrests have already been made. Terrorism, ladies and gentlemen, remains our main challenge. Vigilance remains imperative. In the name of the Chamber, I have expressed my condolences to my colleague in office of the House of Commons. I have told him that in these terrible circumstances our people are very sympathetic to the British people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a car and a knife, it did not take more to blindly kill and hurt innocent citizens. The chosen date and place, so symbolic, may not be the result of chance. One year after these terrible attacks that have hit our country so painfully, it is the heart of British democracy that is being targeted. Ladies and gentlemen, one day, terrorists want to divide us again. We know what it feels like to be attacked. We know how difficult it is to deal with such trauma. We can arm ourselves against terror, we can take security measures, but the battle is far from over. I would also like to inform Parliament that, at this very moment, we are following closely the situation in Antwerp, in which an individual with suspicious actions and material was intercepted. Mr President, on behalf of all Belgians, I have offered my most sincere condolences to Prime Minister Theresa May. We work closely with the security and intelligence services and I assured my counterpart of course that she could count on our support and cooperation. I have expressed my sincere condolences on behalf of all Belgians to British Prime Minister Theresa May. We work closely with the security and intelligence services. I have promised my colleague all the support and cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to observe a minute of silence in tribute to the victims of this attack.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u6	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 March 2017, I propose that the discussion of the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne, Mrs Véronique Caprasse, Mr Francis Delpérée and Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr Olivier Maingain and Mr Dirk Van der Maelen) be postponed to Thursday 30 March 2017 on Belgium's support for Tunisia, Nos 1427/1 to 6, be postponed to Thursday 30 March 2017. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 March 2017, I propose that you postpone the discussion of the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne, Ms Véronique Caprasse, MM. Francis Delperée and Wouter De Vriendt, Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Messrs. Olivier Maingain and Dirk Van der Maelen) on Belgium's support for Tunisia, Nos. 1427/1 to 6, on Thursday 30 March 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, as an introduction, I am referring to last week. At that time, speaking time was quite exemplary. I hope the same for this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u8	I would remind you that if three questions are attached, the answer is limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to move from the gravity of a minute of silence to the usual game of topical issues, but this is what the parliamentary agenda wants. Prime Minister, yesterday in committee, we had the opportunity to ask your Finance and Budget Ministers about budgetary adjustment. The answers that were provided to us were so laconic that it seemed useful to us to come back to you. What about the budget adjustment? Not much to hear from your ministers. First, you chose to deflate the safety mattress, buffer, which was meant to counter the bad news we receive every year about tax revenues. The monitoring committee recommended last July a mattress of more than EUR 1 billion. Here, with the adjustment, we find ourselves with a mattress of just over 500 million euros. What is worrying is that, in the meantime, the work you announced on updating and validating the method of calculating tax revenues has not been successful. At least we didn't get the results. So we can always have the same concerns about the reliability of the figures put forward by the FPS Finances. With respect to a number of technical corrections, the minister explained to us that she had done dental work to correct the corrections made by the monitoring committee on a point-by-point basis. We will await the opinion of the Court of Auditors to correct the government's corrections. Finally, there are 60 million new expenditure outside the European Commission's flexibility clause. You have applied a fairly easy recipe, that of the four-quarters: four times 15 million. There are for each party of the majority. In budgetary terms, it is probably not very rigorous but it allows each party to have something to get under the tooth: there are 15 million for each of the partners. You have put the political balance of the majority ahead of budgetary balance. Prime Minister, what about the strategic investment pact? Unless you're wrong, there's nothing in the adjustment about it. What about corporate tax reform? We knew there would be nothing in terms of implementing reforms, but we still see that notional interests allow you to make budgetary gains. You've already increased the household discount, how are you going to finance the long-awaited corporate tax reform? What about the effort that remains to be made in 2018? We've read the figures from the Planning Office, they're much more worrying than yours. Do you validate the $6.5 billion required to achieve fiscal balance in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, as Mr Dispa has already said, I do not think it is clear that, after the memory of the victims, we should proceed immediately to the order of the day. However, I will do my best. Mr Prime Minister, budgetary control has actually been dealt with this weekend on a whim. Why on a trot? Because you and your government did not have the courage to talk about the great abilities, to talk about fair taxation and fair taxation. However, one of your government parties, CD&V, launched it, I believe in September or October. This immediately led to major problems and even a small crisis in your government. You said at that time that you would draw that problem to you. We therefore hoped and were actually convinced that you would finally tackle this problem in this budgetary control. Nothing could be further from the truth. You do not find it a problem to make wage increases very difficult now and in the future, you do not find it a problem to impose sanctions on long-term sick people, but you find it an immense problem to ask for a fair contribution to the great abilities. Prime Minister, what you have said in the past must finally be achieved. The current budgetary control has actually only taken place from the point of view of the survival of your government and not from the point of view of fair and correct taxation. Mr Prime Minister, the IMF, an independent body to which your Minister for Finance is so keen to refer, has said something about this today. I believe that you will also refer to it in your reply, but you must read everything. The IMF has said today that an added value tax is also an added value for the economy. You're laughing, but that's a fact. Prime Minister, how is it that the added value tax is not included in this budget control? When will this finally happen? Do you also find in the IMF report a reason to finally introduce the value added tax and finally ask for fair taxes on the large assets?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, my question is linked to the questions on budgetary control, in particular on a particular part of it. Of course, I want to hear the added value of all kinds of new taxes that need to be devised in our country, but in your budgetary control I see things that I think have much more added value. Indeed, the mobility budget will be speeded up effectively. We were able to read that in the paper today. Mobility is really a crucial issue. Employees at many companies are in traffic every day nowadays. International reports show that 2% of extra economic growth can be achieved in our country if we can reduce congestion costs. That is why your government agreement states that a mobility budget will be created to provide a budget next to the company car so that people can think about how to move in the most favourable way. That way we can do something about the congestion problem. I am pleased that the government is now working on this and that this is reaffirmed in the notifications of this budgetary control. We have seen that the FPS Finance has appointed an external expert to fill out the mobility budget in concrete terms. At the time, my party put on the table the cash budget, the exchange of the car for a net cash sum. You repeated that in your State of the Union. In addition, there is, of course, a need for a broad debate on mobility and the future of the company car fleet. Mr Prime Minister, my question is what exactly is the role of the consultant appointed by the FPS Finance. What's the timing? When can we really see where we will land with the mobility budget? I also understand that the social partners are currently talking about this. How do these conversations relate to each other? I would have liked to have heard more about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, my colleague Benoît Dispa reminded you a moment ago that you have been expected on firm feet since your big announcements last October. However, we have not seen anything coming, whether in terms of investment, corporate tax, the mobilization of savings or capital gains. There is another subject that you announced in October, the Mobility budget. On this Mobility budget, you obviously did not advance by a metre. However, should I remind you that Belgium holds the record for traffic congestion? Should I recall the particularly high economic impact of these traffic jams? I must also point out how important it seems to us that workers have the freedom to use these amounts as they see fit. Not only for the purchase of a company car, but to be able to combine several modes of travel, or even - we plead in this sense - to buy accommodation closer to their place of work or to benefit from service vouchers or to equip themselves for telework? We learn that you have decided to have a social secretariat work on this file. Do I have to understand that it is so complicated or that you do not have the resources in this government to draft a bill in this area? Prime Minister, why don't you manage this file internally? I am also surprised that the social secretariat to which you entrusted the file is specialized in "Caféria plans". It's an inquisitive thing! What agreement have you reached within the government? Did you give this social secretariat full freedom to write everything he wanted in the bill? How will you guarantee that tomorrow there will be no scam and that the workers will not be taxed? How will you clearly allow this freedom while guaranteeing the same tax system as is currently in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we approved the agreement on budgetary control. This is a budgetary control. As I have said, this budget work has not been the most difficult since the beginning of this Parliament, for a very simple reason: the original budget as it was prepared had been done correctly. The Monitoring Committee considered that there was an effort to make of EUR 313 million. We have been careful in this budgetary control and I would like to highlight it. Indeed, contrary to what has been mentioned, we have re-established a security margin, mainly for the assessment of tax revenues, estimated at more than 550 million euros, or 0.13% of GDP. In other words, we are presenting budgetary control with an effort for 2016-17 of 1.2% of GDP, in line with our commitments, plus a margin of security. I also heard that the IMF report had been mentioned. In my opinion, it would be interesting to highlight it as a whole. The IMF report is particularly positive about the choice of this government to implement structural reforms for the competitiveness of our companies and the purchasing power of the people working. That's a statement. Two years after the first major structural decisions, we can see the first concrete results in terms of job creation. There are 105,000 jobs that have already been created in the private sector. Moreover, the decline in the number of bankruptcies is significant in the country. Another very interesting figure: since this Parliament, three times as many people make the choice each month to become independent, to create their jobs and, often, to create many more jobs. I also want to highlight budgetary prudence. We have maintained fiscal control on the basis of 1.4% of growth as estimated by the Plan Bureau, while the IMF report you mention forecasts growth of 1.6% for our country in 2017. It is therefore, in a way, a second buffer, a second safety margin that we have decided not to take into account this figure of 1.6%. What is the important point? Of course, in the coming weeks and months, we will continue to pursue more structural reforms, more socio-economic decisions, the recovery of our economy and hence of social cohesion. I confirm that the government is working hard on certain important issues for the future. The problem of taxation for economic activity remains a major challenge for this government. It is our will to achieve results in the coming months. The year 2017 should also be a useful year in this respect. I also confirm that the investment strategy is particularly crucial. Last week I was given the opportunity in this House to confirm our commitment to this. The government will implement clear commitments over the next few weeks and months. I hope this can be done with the support of the Länder. Finally, Mrs Fonck, mobility is one of the central themes for an investment pact. We need to see, in line with the decision in the original 2017 budget, how to implement reforms to give more free choice and avoid systematically encouraging the choice of company car. It is the direction that is taken, the will to give this free choice between extra pocket salary or a company car. Things are well done because the inter-professional agreement which has been reached has given rise to an initiative by the social partners; they have indicated that they will issue opinions to the government on this subject. The government will therefore translate what was decided in the original 2017 budget and we will continue to work as intensively as possible on this issue by consulting with all those who need to be. It is for the ministers to consult the various actors concerned. When they reach us, we will also examine the views of the social partners. We are cleaning up our country for a long time. We are making reforms to create additional jobs. Let me point out here that, two years ago and a few months ago, the structural deficit was 2.2% of GDP. Today, it has been reduced to -0.8% of GDP.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u14	Prime Minister, your answers are not much more convincing than those of your ministers. Where are the billions for strategic investments? In any case, they are still not included in the 2017 budget year. What is the status of corporate tax reform and its financing? We'll have to wait a little longer. What about the effort to be made for 2018? You didn't say much about it. Prime Minister, I have the feeling that you overestimate the results of your policy. When we compare the Belgian figures with those of the European countries, we can see that in terms of growth we are doing less well than they are and not better in terms of employment. Therefore, tax shift does not seem to be a truly effective lever. You underestimate the efforts to be made. You're talking about a deficit of 0.8% of GDP. The Plan Office is announcing a deficit of 1.5% of GDP, but you have not said anything about it. You have made an effort of 313 million through this budgetary control. But the Plan Office announced an effort of $6.5 billion in 2018. I wish the parties of the majority good courage to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u15	Mr Prime Minister, not only do you not have the courage to discuss this with your partners in budgetary control, but you do not have the courage to answer my questions here in Parliament. I asked you two questions about capital gains tax and you simply did not answer them. You do not even have the courage to answer Parliament's questions. In your place, I would be a little more modest about the realizations of this government. We are below the European average, Prime Minister. You and your government have no merit at all, but they have no merit at all, in the fact that the world economy and the economy in Europe are attracting again. Even with better figures, you won't be able to properly estimate your income, because they're underneath it. So I'd be a little more modest. Prime Minister, Mr Peeters sent a tweet this morning about the specific passage in the IMF report, namely that the added value tax is beneficial to the economy. Mr. Peeters, you tweeted this. But shortly afterwards, Prime Minister, that tweet was withdrawn. Was that on your order? Why is that? Prime Minister, I will not leave you alone until I get an answer from you on the value added tax. You promised. When's this coming?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u16	Mr President, our agenda setting has led us to a rather odd debate, because a question about the mobility budget does not have much added value in a debate on the added value tax. Nevertheless, I shall reply. Prime Minister, I am pleased that you are continuing to work on the mobility budget. On behalf of our group, however, I would like to raise four points which are really important to us in the dossier. Firstly, if we are to make a mobility budget, it must be behavior-driven. If it is to be behavior-driven, one must reward people who move less, who think about their travel behaviour. This can only be done if there is a cash component in the solution, but I know that you yourself are in favour of it and that this will also be worked out. Secondly, it must also become a matter for all workers in the long term. We are now looking mainly at those with a company car, but we also have to go to such a budget for those who do not have a company car in the long term. Thirdly, the time is right to drastically green the company car park. In two generations' time, we must succeed in getting the fuel car out of the company car park. By 2030, we should be able to create an investment- secure environment with the sector to do so and put a greening of our fleet on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u17	Prime Minister, thank you. You're telling us that the government is working hard. The least we can say is that on this issue of the Mobility budget, you are providing less than a minimum service. While this agreement has been in place for months, you decide to entrust it to a social secretariat specializing in "caferia plans", but also, rather than waiting for the recommendations of the social partners, which you have asked for, you consult an external partner. I have just heard Mr. Lachaert and I also know that the CD&V has tabled a text on the subject. Rather than paying an external partner, we would do better to work in parliament. We have tabled a text ourselves. Since you're waiting for several pieces, I'll give you one more. I call on colleagues to be able to put the subject on the agenda of the Committee on Social Affairs as soon as next week, with freedom of choice, the extension of the dossier to a quality of life component, both in terms of mobility, housing and service titles, and, finally, we call for equal treatment for employers and workers. Minister, I hope that you will let your majority move forward in Parliament as well. We will then be able, together, to reach solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck. Your reply was a little too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u19	Prime Minister, I have already regularly questioned you about the disastrous deal the European Union has made with Turkey, with the full support of the entire government. I have already pointed out, among other things, that this is a blackmail policy. That was hoarded. You repeatedly said that you are not naive and that the deal was a step in the right direction. Yesterday, however, I read an interview with you in Knack and you agree with me. The criticism I made at the time, from you: Europe made a big mistake two years ago in the negotiations on that deal. We have accepted to start talks with Turkey with a theme, the refugee crisis, on which we were the weakest. That country is economically heavily dependent on us but we have not played that out." Prime Minister, indeed, the government, together with the rest of the European leaders, has given Erdogan an unprecedented strategic asset. He feels untouchable and the threatening language he expresses these days is a direct consequence of that. Last week it also came to light that the deal is even more shady than we thought. It turns out that Merkel and Rutte made an extra concrete appointment when they closed that deal. They have agreed to allow 150 000 to 250 000 refugees from Turkey to enter the European Union every year. They would have agreed that, without the other European leaders knowing anything about it. It was put behind their backs; it seems to be happening in the European Union. Prime Minister, I would like to know today whether you were aware of those agreed numbers. Are you okay with that? Are you going to at least respond to that? Now that you yourself admit that mistakes have been made in the negotiations, do you not think that shady deals with a dictator, who threatens the entire population of a continent, would be better stopped? Or do you want to continue such deals? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have always been clear about relations between Europe and Turkey. I always thought it was necessary, for obvious geopolitical reasons, to cooperate with Turkey. At the same time, I have always stressed that an approach based only on the problem of migration was too limited. We must discuss with Turkey other issues such as the evolution of the rule of law, fundamental freedoms, freedom of the press. It is not the first time I have said this in Parliament. I've always been clear about that. Moreover, I have already pointed out that we are not naive. We are aware of the Turkish Government's instrumentalisation of conditions for geopolitical reasons. On the other hand, it is also true that the migration agreements produce concrete results for the route between Turkey and Europe. It is also clear that I do not accept the statements made by the President of Turkey, especially the most recent statements. I have responded very clearly to that. The attacks against Berlin, the attacks against the Netherlands, the attacks against Belgium and against a member of the government are not acceptable. I call at European level for a strong cohesion, for a strong European mixed strategy for the future relationship with Turkey. That's my commitment. We will remain on that line.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u21	Prime Minister, I did not receive an answer to my question as to whether you were aware of the agreement made by Merkel and Rutte with the Turkish Prime Minister. Don't answer that. It's a lot to say. You are talking about the democracy and freedoms of the press, which you consider so important in Turkey. Erdogan is currently receiving EUR 4.5 billion from the European money to get that right. You see what's happening. He's only making it worse. On the day when we commemorate a gruesome attack of Islam terrorism in our country on the day of another attack in London, that man says that tomorrow no European anywhere in the world can walk safely on the streets. You say that his statements are unacceptable and that you distance yourself from them. However, you only do this in words, not in deeds. You will lose all credibility if you continue shady deals with that man who threatens a total population. Finally add the deed to the word. Do not freeze the accession negotiations with Turkey, but stop them and close the money supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u22	The next item is the debate on four oral questions on criticism of Secretary of State Francken for his sneak-out to Doctors Without Borders. Mr Calvo, you are asking for the floor on the order of business?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u23	Indeed, Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. A debate is taking place following the, as far as we are concerned, scandalous statements by Secretary of State Francken, who has portrayed people who are working for people in need as unhumans. We have seen over the last few hours that the Secretary of State himself does not want to answer the relevant questions. We have finally agreed to allow the Prime Minister to reply, if only because we appreciate the Prime Minister's tonality in this matter more than that of Secretary of State Francken. By the way, I'm glad you finally drew a line. The minimum mini-morum that we can expect, ladies and gentlemen, when there is a debate about a Secretary of State, about his statements, about his tweets, about one of the thousands of tweets he unleashes on society, is that the Secretary of State himself is present. We have agreed to an answer from the Prime Minister. What I specifically ask, in this arrangement of work, is that Mr Francken is here and follows the debate, that he hears what the Prime Minister has to say about his tweets and his statements. [[Applause]] I note, Mr President, that a number of groups, of the opposition but also of the majority, agree with that. I suggest you take over the Twittering Secretary of State and tell him that his place is here and now in the Chamber. It is not enough to be active online. There must be a parliamentary debate on this matter. As far as I am concerned, this debate cannot begin until Mr Francken is here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u24	Mr Calvo, as you say, we will not introduce regulations. This is not what we agreed to. The members of the government who are not asked questions do not need to be here. They should only be here if drafts are discussed that affect their powers. So we will not introduce that regulation on the spot. I suggest that we move on to the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u25	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u26	Mr Calvo, you have made your point. You have made a proposal that we could possibly introduce in the future if there were a majority in favour of it. We'll see. But this is not the case at the moment. This is not the Rules of Procedure. I know that a Member of Parliament can always claim the presence of a member of the government, but not within the time frame of the oral questions, of course. I therefore propose that we move on to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u27	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u28	I'll give you 30 seconds, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u29	It's not my job to make a point. We, and others, have agreed that the Prime Minister should reply. The minimum minimorum, after all that Francken has said, written and tweeted, is that he is following this debate. I'm asking for a suspension. The tradition is that when a group chairman asks for a suspension, it is granted. We want Francken to be here. He wasn't apologized. After everything that's happened, he needs to hear what the Prime Minister has to say about this. After all the courage he has had to insult everyone and everything, he must now have the courage to follow this debate. So I'm asking for a suspension. We're gonna shut this place down until Francken gets back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u30	Mr Calvo, we are not going to answer that question. You know that you have other parliamentary resources, such as interplays, to talk to those concerned about their competence. Mr. Vuye, is it about the same thing? Can you keep it brief?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u31	I will keep it brief, as others do here. As President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that you should give the Members of Parliament the right information. What you say in the Constitution is not what you say. The Constitution states that the Chamber may at any time and for any reason request the presence of a member of the Government. That is not in the Rules of Procedure, but in the Constitution. That's the right information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u32	We shall now proceed to the oral questions. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u33	I didn't get any paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u34	I read here "motion Francken present." That sounds more like a slogan to me than a motion. Mr Calvo, I have the habit of consulting with the various groups. I have done so today on various issues and we have always reached an agreement. I also had discussions with your group and I got a text from your colleague Mr Nollet to agree that this question would be answered by the Prime Minister. I suggest we stick to that. Period. To demand the presence of a member of the government within the oral questions is not our system. We have a system of oral questions, where the one who has to answer must be here. We can even agree that the questions will be answered by two members of the government. We've done that several times. However, that was not requested at the moment. I suggest we keep our word.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u35	Mr President, you have not consulted all the groups. It seems to me important to say that the rule is often that the Secretary of State is also present. I see that today Mrs Demir is here for the next debate. It seemed interesting to me to come. I worked for you: I just sent him the request on Twitter and, normally, he will answer in 30 or 45 seconds. You know how fast his answers are. Let's wait! I'm proposing a suspension. I propose a two-minute suspension to hear Theo Francken's answer on Twitter and then we continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u36	We won't wait for Twitter. I suggest we get started. Do we really have to take this seriously, fellow Members? "Motie Francken present. Especially if we hadn't talked about it, Mr Calvo, I might be able to follow you. But you have given your word through your colleague, Mr Nollet, whom you do not dispose of, I presume. We have called as usual, we have given the floor, it was settled, we are not going to return to the sitting standing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u38	Yes, I would, Mrs. Onkelinx, but... Article 50 does say: "The Chamber may require the presence of a member of the Government on the proposal of a member in writing." Then we go to Rule 41.1.6°. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u39	If we cross that bridge, we will stop the oral questions at any time, because a member of the government can always be asked to be present. And then there is no longer any form of consultation, because whatever is being discussed, it is being broken here on the spot. My proposal remains to proceed with the oral questions. I therefore give the floor to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u40	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u41	No, Mr Calvo, you gave your word.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u42	Mr President, we respect the agreement we made for 110 percent, even if it is because the Prime Minister says more beautiful, beautiful and humane things than Theo Francken. The Prime Minister is responding. I claim the Secretary of State in application of Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows me to claim the Secretary of State. It's not a minor incident. It's not the first incident. The Secretary of State has shaved everything and everyone in the last few months. Those who work for refugees, he has offended and accused them of the ugliest things. If he is in the neighbourhood but does not want to attend the debate on purpose and does not want to answer the questions, then I must refer to Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure. I've made this request. I am asking for the vote and I am counting on the support of my fellow Members from the CD&V, who have just applauded the presence of Theo Francken. He must attend this debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u43	Mr Calvo, may I ask you a question? Why didn't you tell me this before? Would you have asked me on the phone to make sure that the Secretary of State would be present...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u44	Mr President, frankly, I assumed that. It is a minimum respect of the Secretary of State to attend this debate about him. That is what we want to ask, and you yourself could insist, as President of the Chamber, for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u45	I'd like to insist on that...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u46	If that does not work, we shall ask for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u47	But we did not insist on the sitting and did not demand it on the spot, when we had a discussion on it. That is simply not fair, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u48	We have been so fair to have the Prime Minister answer the question. We have been willing to do so, and we have committed ourselves to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u49	I didn't... I didn't... I didn't...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u50	But if Theo Francken sends his cat, we won't accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u51	Can I say something, too? I did not force you to reply, I asked you and you agreed, and you did not talk about the compulsory or desirable presence of Secretary of State Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u52	Because that's what we assumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u53	We're not gonna play that game. Mr Vuye, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u54	Mr President, I will speak on the presence or otherwise of Secretary of State Francken, but I am very surprised at the information you have provided here. You're confusing two things. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber shall govern the proceedings. Whatever is agreed at the Conference of Presidents, it does not affect any of the individual rights that the Constitution confers on all Members of Parliament, and you are violating them here at the moment. Each Member of Parliament has the right to ask for a member of the government to be applied for. This is what the Constitution says, and it is not different. As far as I'm concerned, you may step outside the Constitution. I don't have a problem with that. Then you're a fan of the Vuye-Wouters doctrine. That's very good, but be aware that's what you're doing. You are currently violating the Constitution, point on the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u55	I keep saying that I think it's a totally unfair way of doing things. If there is consultation, and I am right, Mr Vuye, there is indeed a difference between the formal rules on the one hand and the informal agreements, but I hope to be able to live in a Parliament where informal agreements are still worth something. For the rest, we shall be able to put your question to the Chamber and see who is making progress in the presence of the Secretary of State. We can vote on that. Who supports Mr Calvo's request for the presence of Secretary of State Theo Francken? Countertest. Ladies and gentlemen, you are forcing me to vote electronically. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[35]] Yes No. [[42]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 87 Total Consequently, the presence of the Secretary of State is not requested. We shall continue with the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u56	Mr President, I note that not all Members of the majority voted. I note that an important majority party has abstained. The Flemish liberals say...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u57	We'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u58	Mr President, I hope that Mr Francken will follow this and continue to attend our debate. Otherwise, let it be an encouragement to pamper and weigh his words a little more in the future when it comes to such important issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain my abstention and the abstention of the members of my group. Mr Calvo really does not have to do that in my place. What Mr Calvo is doing today is against the rules we have agreed on following the introduction of Question Time. It is possible to discuss which Excellency should answer an oral question. I have often experienced that a minister came to give the answer, while Members felt that the Prime Minister should come and reply. Now the Prime Minister is responding. Secretary of State Francken does not have to answer, because Mr Calvo agrees that the Prime Minister should reply. However, Mr Calvo asked that Secretary of State Francken be present here physically. If a member of the government is requested, it is so that that member of the government would come and say something or clarify something, but not just to sit here. Mr Vuye, I would not know where that is written. I do know some of the customs in Parliament. If you are concerned with reading the Constitution, you will be able to do so. Mr President, this is an essential rule. Mr Calvo misuses the procedure of the claim. In doing so, Mr Calvo is not collegial towards his fellow Members. At the moment we are also in a mediatized moment in the Chamber. Members of the Chamber shall put oral questions. Those questions have been assigned a certain order of order. It would really be too easy for a Member to ask to speak every Thursday, referring to the Rules of Procedure. In this way a few additional minutes are hijacked to get into the attention. Mr Calvo, all the honourable Members who come after you with their oral question are in for their trouble. [[Applause]] Mr Calvo, in your opposition, I sometimes find you spitant, but you must learn to live with collegiality. I do not think it is normal that we have been working for 20 minutes, because, contrary to what you said to the President of the Chamber before the sitting, you are suddenly inventing something new. I don't accept that. Mr President, that being said, if there is a discussion, then the questions put to the Prime Minister can perfectly be put back in the agenda. So you can leave it to the appreciation of Secretary of State Francken whether or not he wishes to join this Chamber meeting. I do not think that we should be half an hour behind schedule for this. In my view, therefore, the sitting should not be suspended, otherwise we will be able to suspend the sitting every Thursday. The Secretary of State has made certain statements. He must decide for himself whether he judges it wise to be here and he can still join the Chamber. In the meantime, I would suggest that we proceed with the order of the day and that the other fellow Members, who have the same right as Mr Calvo or other fellow Members, could ask their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Calvo, you wished to derive something from the vote just now which is totally inconsistent with reality. We have an agenda here. I voted differently from my colleague from Open Vld. That does not mean that we are on a different line in this respect. On the contrary, we are on the same page. You have implicitly approved an agenda and agreed with the President of the Chamber, asking questions to the Prime Minister, not another member of the government. You agreed to that. I have always had the habit, and I have always had that experience with most fellow Members: when we make agreements, then we implement those agreements. That's how we do the right thing about politics. That is the only reason why I voted against, because I understand the questioners. I also understand the response given by the Prime Minister this week. I even fully supported them. I also assume that he will endorse them shortly. But I also say to you: if you make agreements, respect them! A member of the government who is being applied for is not brought forward as a witness, but as an actor. At the moment, in the agreed questions, the Secretary of State is not an actor. If he'd gotten a question, he'd obviously have to be here. If there were a draft or a proposal here for which he is responsible, he would of course have to be here as well. This does not detract from what has been said shamefully over the past week, which I do not endorse at all and which I welcome what the Prime Minister has said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u61	Mr President, I would like to justify my group's abstention from the vote just taken. Mr. Franken is not brave. Of which act. Following the remarks made a few days ago by Mr Franken, but also in view of his behaviour in recent months, for our group, the less we see it, the better we are. Instead of coming back here to lynch Doctors Without Borders, as long as he stays where he is! Prime Minister, on the other hand, you are going backwards and backwards. You are reshaping Mr Franken's successive unacceptable slippages. He's doing it again as fast as he can.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u62	Mrs Fonck, please comment on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u63	Your authority as Prime Minister is completely challenged. Mr. Franken stay where he is!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u64	Mr President, we have just held a solemn silence following a serious incident. There's a lot going on in my own town. And what are we doing? I feel substitute shame for everything you're doing here right now. The political politician is out of line here! Let us do what we have been elected to do and deal with what should concern us! What you're doing here is horrible, and the whole world will be ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u65	Mr Calvo has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u66	Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Dewael rightly say that agreements are agreements. We made an agreement about who answers. We respect that for 110 percent. I believe that Mr Dewael's proposal to give Mr Francken the opportunity to join the agenda later on is a good and constructive proposal, and I agree with him because I believe he is an important presence in the debate. This shows real commitment to the parliamentary debate. Our demarche is inspired by that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u67	Mr President, my group did address the question to the Prime Minister, but we obviously expected Mr Franken to be here. His absence is yet another insult to Médecins Sans Frontières and Amnesty International. It's mostly an act of cowardice. Either, I'm coming to my question. While some, in a meeting of the European Council, say: "Let them drown, as long as they are rejected", today, in the Mediterranean, men and women from civil society are working to save lives. While some in Belgium today disregard the right of refugees, others in Belgium work alongside these refugees to defend their rights and our fundamental values. Since the beginning of the migration crisis, everyone has welcomed the work done by civil society and NGOs. Everyone stresses the indispensable character of this work, and of those men and women who are trying to restore a little dignity to our Earth. I mean, everybody... no. Everyone, except the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, who within a few days manages to attack Amnesty International as well as Médecins Sans Frontières. I quote: "The strategy of Amnesty and NGOs is a shame for Europe." He also attacks MSF: "You only indirectly cause more deaths." Further on, he says: "They must stay away. What they do has nothing to do with refugees, but with illegal migration." These words give me a high heart, Prime Minister. They arouse in my home, as in many people, indignation. But at home, no, obviously. You're talking about a nuance problem in communication. Rather than unreservedly condemning the shameful words of your Secretary of State, you call for respect for the work of humanitarian organisations: fortunately. After so many slips in his head, you have to make yourself clear. At home, it is not a communication problem, it is a problem of substance and ideology. Mr Prime Minister, I ask you here before this House: does your government support, entirely and without reservation, yes or no, civil society's action to protect human lives in the Mediterranean? Does it support, without reservation, yes or no, the work of civil society in Belgium, alongside refugees, and the defence of our fundamental values? Do you condemn, Prime Minister, whether or not and without reservation, what Mr Franken has said?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u68	Prime Minister, you're probably halfway with your government. If I am not mistaken, you have always profiled yourself as someone who wanted to produce concrete results with a strong peer group. It is from that perspective that I followed the tweets of Secretary of State Francken on Doctors Without Borders with increasing amazement last week. Doctors Without Borders would only cause more deaths by saving people and those people should all be sent back to North Africa. In ideological crescendo he called Doctors Without Borders human smugglers. That language reminds me more of other parties, Prime Minister, than of a liberal party. Ladies and gentlemen, when one is a minister, one actually gets a megaphone in one's hand, whether one likes it or not. One must therefore be very careful with his communication. I see Secretary Peeters nodding. Either they show leadership and use that megaphone to achieve concrete results, or they do pure ideological profiling and polarization. Moreover, what Mr Francken is posturing is not even right. It's not collegial either, because is his colleague and party mate Steven Vandeput a human smuggler? Did we not save countless people from the Mediterranean with the gods? Oxford published a study comparing the figures. From this we learn that there are no more arrivals since people are saved. Frankly, that so-called suction effect of the Secretary of State is mostly a thumb-sucking effect of himself. Prime Minister, you have had to respond, and rightly so. You asked him to respect the humanitarian work of Doctors Without Borders and to cooperate with our partners in a constructive dialogue. Mr Prime Minister, I come to my two specific questions. I don't have the impression that Secretary of State Francken is really listening to you. [[Hilarity]] Some people think that's funny; I don't. Anyway, Prime Minister, what will you do about it? How will you ensure that the government works collectively in the relevant file and in other files?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u69	Prime Minister, every day hundreds of people, to save their lives, leave a side of the Mediterranean to cross it, at the cost of a great danger. In the face of this danger, people, NGOs, invest every day to save lives. They are doctors, volunteers, whose only aim is to offer help to those who are in danger on the sea, to board them on a boat to prevent them from dying. It's simple and humanistic, it might seem logical for everyone, but visibly not for a person. Our Secretary of State for Migration finds nothing better than saying that organizations like Médecins Sans Frontières are actually engaged in human trafficking. Did you hear that? Smugglers, that's what our own secretary of state says. He actually asks MSF not to save these lives, to leave them in the sea. We understand better the famous words of two years ago. At the time, a certain secretary of state had been accused by a Greek minister of saying, "Let's leave them in the sea!" Today, his tweet is clear. He said to MSF: you are for human trafficking; you do not have to save people. Prime Minister, you have called on the Secretary of State to nuance his remarks. How do we grade such words? What are we proposing? That people drown a little bit in the sea? That they stop doing a little bit of human trafficking? How can this kind of statement be nuanced, ladies and gentlemen? These words are intolerable! They stigmatize hundreds of thousands of people fleeing wars, fleeing poverty, fleeing global warming, who are in need. And the Secretary of State says helping them is doing human trafficking. Prime Minister, my question is very clear. On Tuesday, when the Secretary of State tweeted that ignoble talk, you called me a populist. But on the same day, when this Secretary of State posts this tweet, you say that he must nuance his remarks. I want to make this clear, Prime Minister. If there are populists here, in this Chamber, it is within the N-VA and within your government that the terr... populists are present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u70	The terrorists? It's very revealing as lapsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u71	Populists. Prime Minister, I would ask you to condemn the words of the Secretary of State because I believe that today, in democracy, we can no longer accept the stigmatization of those who, every day, help people who are at risk to cross the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u72	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am ashamed of my country. Already, the government had entrusted Turkey with its migration policy on Syrian refugees. Every year Belgium pays €72 million for an apprentice dictator, Mr Erdogan, to fulfil our task of caring for people who need security, who are in distress and who ask for our protection. Serious NGOs such as Amnesty International and MSF are sounding the alarm. In response, the Secretary of State – your Secretary of State! – insulting them by calling them smugglers of migrants and traffickers and even accusing them of causing the death of these migrants in the Mediterranean. Who can believe that a man or woman from Somalia, Eritrea or Sudan dreams of capsizing at sea and being recovered by MSF? Who can believe it in this House? These NGOs do this work, as our fellow citizens, in Brussels in particular, did when the refugees arrived here a year and a half ago and had to be summarily taken care of at Maximilian Park. Worse: Today, the Secretary of State accuses these NGOs of creating an air appeal. But he's wrong. It is he who creates a call: a call to hatred. My question is simple, Prime Minister: how are you going to muzzle him?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this government, like many other governments in Europe in recent months, has faced an asylum crisis that is probably unprecedented this decade. In collegiality, the government has always assumed its responsibilities to ensure with dignity the welcome that we have to assume. In fact, we have regularly had the opportunity to discuss these extremely important and sensitive issues in this House. With regard to the tweet to which you are referring, I want to be extremely clear and I was immediately clear. I disapprove of the tweet that was posted. I condemn this type of communication. I invite you to turn your thumb seven times before tweeting. [[Applause]] I say on behalf of the entire government that we support and respect the humanitarian work that has been done. Nevertheless, and here I depart from some of the comments that have been made, that respecting humanitarian work does not mean systematically agreeing with the approaches of some civil society actors to migration. There is a democratic debate. How can Europe develop the right approach to the asylum crisis and the difficult refugee problem? There is certainly a need for a fundamental and thorough debate on this. I note that there is no spontaneous consensus on this in this assembly. My message is extremely clear. I do not appreciate the systematic attempt to underestimate this point, which has been made with clarity. Finally, on the substance of this case, I continue to be fully engaged with the European government and bodies in order to find structural solutions from Europe and to see how, in dialogue with civil society actors, convincing answers can be provided. It is in this spirit that I formally instructed the Secretary of State to meet with Médecins Sans Frontières in order to create the possibility of a respectful, constructive and nuanced dialogue, because the nuance is necessary in this type of situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u74	Prime Minister, by these few characters, your Secretary of State has failed in the face of all these doctors, rescuers, sympathizers, activists, volunteers, who give meaning to their lives and refuse indifference, withdrawal and extremism. It's inexcusable. By these few characters too, your Secretary of State is putting a new stain on the office of Prime Minister of our country. I hear you've condemned a tweet. I have not heard a conviction for other earlier statements, which your Secretary of State had stated and which are just as serious. I'm afraid it's one more episode and it'll be followed by others. Because, beside the tweets of your Secretary of State, there is often, Prime Minister, your complicit silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u75	Prime Minister, thank you from the bottom of my heart for your clear language. I hope you will act accordingly. I hope, Mr Calvo, that the Prime Minister and petite committee will report to Mr Francken on our public meeting. I would also like to see Mrs Rutten van Open Vld also ask for Mr Francken to tweet a little less, a little better, and in particular to answer his 35% unanswered written questions at last.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u76	Colleagues, eight people around the world have as many as 3.5 billion people on our planet. How can we believe that this model will hold up in the years to come? How can we believe today that, by going to Syria, Libya or Iraq to bomb, we can maintain a world based on the idea that we are going to send people back to the Mediterranean with all the forms of structures that exist in these countries? That is impossible, ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister, you were right today to condemn the words of your Secretary of State, but I believe that we must go further because, as you know, the N-VA has a hidden agenda. And today, she is very uncomfortable because she is accused by many Dutch speakers of being a traditional party like the others. And what's the N-VA trying to do? The N-VA is a lightning rod and plays communication games by hitting the weak. Prime Minister, I ask you: how long are you going to swallow the racist snakes of the N-VA? It's time to say stop!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u77	Prime Minister, I welcome your condemnation. It is a pity that the Secretary of State, at the request of Mr Calvo, did not hear it with his own ears. Prime Minister, you are the hero of Mary Shelley: Victor Frankenstein. You had to create a monster to be able to participate in this coalition and become prime minister; a monster that shakes the darkest instincts of our society to become its most popular man. Today, this creature escapes you. In the name of social cohesion in this country, and in these particularly troubled times, please silence it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u78	Mr President, Prime Minister, Turkish President Erdogan spoke threatening language at a meeting with journalists in Ankara yesterday. After all, he warned that no European anywhere in the world would be able to walk safely on the streets tomorrow. We cannot tolerate such a statement. After all, it poses an implicit threat to Europe, our country and all its inhabitants. Moreover, this ruling is on 22 March 2017, exactly one year after our country was struck by the terrible attacks in Zaventem and Maalbeek, and also that he made that statement on the same day that London was hit by a terrorist attack, makes it all the more painful. After all, anyone who makes such a statement is playing with the safety of all the inhabitants of our country, including the safety of the many tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people with a Turkish background, who live, work and live in our country. There are indeed elections and a referendum in Turkey, which makes the moods somewhat higher. Moreover, we must not respond to polarisation with polarisation. However, such statements cannot and must not be ignored in this way. Mr Prime Minister, that is why I have the following questions. Firstly, will you summon the Turkish ambassador to ask for explanations on the statements made by President Erdogan? Secondly, you yourself indicated that Turkey's accession to the European Union should be frozen. Will you also raise this point with your fellow MEPs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share your opinion. Erdogan's statements are not acceptable. The last few weeks and days have been a lot of provocations. There is the situation with the referendum. There is a strategy to bring polarisation in Turkey to Europe. We cannot accept that. That's obvious. I call for a European approach. There was also a resolution to that effect in this Chamber. The freezing of the accession process is a fact today. There is a commitment from European leaders not to open a new chapter in the negotiations. That's a fact. That is also our plea at European level. In the coming weeks and months, we must make a clear choice for the future of Europe in relations with Turkey. I note that, in recent months, Turkey has increasingly chosen to distance itself from fundamental European values. We're not blind. We must assume the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u80	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. It is good that there is a signal and that further steps are being taken. However, we must remain vigilant. We must ensure that these statements by Erdogan are not reflected on our citizens with a Turkish background. This is an implicit threat to them too. Many of them do not agree with such statements, with such threats. We must ensure that such statements do not divide our country. That is why we must continue to work on a discourse of commitment. We must continue to work on a discourse of living together, of dialogue. We must also continue to work on the fight against discrimination, for we certainly still have a lot to do there. I am counting on us to continue to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u81	Mr President, Minister, discrimination is unacceptable to us. The practice and various studies, such as the recent study by Ghent University, show that discrimination is still widespread. It is not just about discrimination on the basis of origin, but also about discrimination on the basis of age or sex. Discrimination is not only unacceptable and illegal, but it is also by discrimination that we lose a great deal of talent, talent that we desperately need in our labour market. That is why two years ago, together with colleagues Demir, Van Quickenborne and Clarinval, I drew up a resolution to tackle discrimination in the labour market. This resolution was adopted by a large majority on 2 July 2015. What was in that resolution? First of all, as an employer, the government itself must set an example, cannot afford any form of discrimination and must do what is necessary within its own administration and within the services which depend on it. Secondly, as far as the private sector is concerned, we have opted very clearly for a different model, a funnel model. We have said that self-regulation must first and foremost be used to eliminate discrimination. We have given the sectors two years, i.e. until July 2017, to develop tools to determine whether there is discrimination in their sector and how best to deal with it themselves. If the sector finds that a number of companies are hard learners and continue to discriminate, it must report this to the inspection. In the first instance, time will be given to the company concerned to remedy and take actions to prove that it does not discriminate. For those companies who are still hard learners and continue to discriminate despite self-regulation and remedial action through the inspection, the resolution states that targeted checks can be carried out to obtain evidence in the context of a judicial investigation. We agreed in the resolution that this also applies to sectors which are failing or which do not have sufficient self-regulation. For the targeted checks, therefore, there is a need for a strict legal framework, which is also provided for in the resolution, since no one believes that a witch hunt should be opened. It's about very targeted controls...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u82	You have to finish, Mrs. Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u83	...after self-checking has proved inadequate. Minister, you announced this week that you are working on a draft law to implement this resolution. How's that bill coming? What's its content? Can you also tell us which sectors have already done something about this in the meantime? You have also written to all the sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u84	Mrs. Lanjri, this is taking too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u85	Can you tell me if that's what they're doing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u86	Minister, I had tabled my question at the beginning of the month. I was pleased with your tweet of March 21, which announced that your mystery call bill was closed. However, we have been waiting two years for concrete action from your Government! Moreover, my group has already tabled a text to allow situational tests to be carried out to combat discrimination against our fellow citizens. For us, mystery calls and, more generally, situation tests can be effective in proving cases of discrimination. We know how difficult it is to show that we have been discriminated against. How can we not think of the case of Samira who, when she calls herself Cécile, finally manages to get the job interview that was refused to her when she presented herself under her true identity? How can we not also think of this person who, because she was fifty-nine years old, saw her candidacy unfairly rejected by a famous kitchen brand? In 2015, Unia - yes, Unia, Ms.Demir - opened more than eighty cases relating to age discrimination. More than half were related to employment. Minister, discrimination is a real scourge. It's time to put an end to it. My three questions are very specific. When will your bill be submitted to Parliament? What are the main lines of action? What will be its scope? In other words, what sectors will be involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u87	Mr Minister, discrimination is a fact. Discrimination's bad. Discrimination means that, on the basis of its colour or origin, one gets less opportunities than anyone else. Not on the basis of his abilities, but simply on the basis of what one looks like and what name one bears. Last week, a study was published by the University of Ghent, titled Better Jacob than Yusuf, a scientific and very clear study. 768 letters were sent for 384 applications, two applications for each job, one with a name with a migration background and one with a name without a migration background. The figures are clear, ladies and gentlemen. It's not about thinking or dreaming, but this is the reality: the chance to get a positive response without a migration background is 22.4 % and the chance with a migration background is 16.1 %, a difference of 30 %. A third less chance! This is our company today in Belgium! The probability of an invitation to a job interview is 11.2 % without a migration background, but 7.8 % with a migration background. A difference of 30%! These are terrible figures, figures that simply show every day to a part of our population that they are not equal to the others, that they do not have equal opportunities. Thirty percent less! In this context, Minister, you have made an excellent proposal. You say it's time to put mystery calls into practice. Well, you're right, Minister Peeters. However, a few hours later, I hear the Secretary of State, apparently almost for Discrimination. I can't think of another title to say that one should pay attention to a witch hunt. What's this about? Companies that don't discriminate, they don't have anything to fear, do they? You're all control freaks when it comes to the unemployed. Surely companies have nothing to fear if there is no discrimination? Why would there be a witch hunt? I can't believe they're just using the mystery calls. Minister, when will the mystery calls be applied? In a week or two, in a month? When will this be applied in practice? You will have our full support for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is agreement, on a majority and opposition, that discrimination on the labour market cannot be achieved, but that, unfortunately, discrimination is being pursued in the Belgian labour market. Whether it is about discrimination between men and women, for age or for other reasons, there is discrimination in the Belgian labour market, and we must tackle it. In 2015, this Parliament adopted a resolution saying that we are going to address this and that we are going to focus on self-regulation. If that were not possible, we would take further legislative initiatives on this. Self-regulation led to an agreement in the service cheque sector on 27 September 2016. I myself have written to all the joint committees with the best practices and a step forward has been taken in the interim sector. However, we are now finding that self-regulation has not been implemented sufficiently or not in practice. There is a problem with this self-regulation after two years or, to be positive, there is a need for an additional incentive. This incentive, as outlined in the resolution, can and must be, in certain cases, for the public authorities to take an initiative. You're right we shouldn't be organizing a witch hunt. If there are major problems, we must act wisely. I have asked my administration to draw up a draft, which is ready, in the sense that I have asked for an opinion from the National Labour Council. On 28 March, I will again be sitting with the Presidents of the sectors and, of course, I will also consult with the Secretary of State and the other Members of Parliament, because there are four ministers who have to sign the bill in view of the powers: Minister Jambon, Minister Geens, Secretary of State Demir and Minister De Block. Once we have received the advice, we will continue to consult. Here's what I'm suggesting. Firstly, the mystery calls must be organized by a social inspector. Secondly, the mystery calls should be able to serve as evidence for the further investigation of discriminatory companies. Thirdly, there must be no real entrapment, so there must be no proactive crime or witch hunt. Once again, we have expressly said to the sectors that they must move forward now. The stick behind the door is here. The final piece of what we have built up, the self-regulation of the sectors, is the draft that I will discuss with my fellow Members and will bring to Parliament as soon as possible in order to deal effectively with discrimination in the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u89	Once again, Minister, discrimination in the labour market is unacceptable. We are losing a great deal of talent. It is therefore high time that work was continued and that a legal framework could be provided for, as we do in other sectors. Think of the smoking ban: there is also mystery shopping to check whether it is being respected. It is therefore high time to provide for this now. Not to invade everywhere or to organize a witch hunt, but to aim, as a stick behind the door. I hope that we will have to use this stick as little as possible, but we will use it when it is necessary, so that everyone can have equal opportunities. Whether one is a man or a woman, young or old, and whether one is called Nadine or Nahima, everyone should have the opportunities he deserves. In this way, we can work effectively towards an inclusive society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u90	Minister, thank you for your answers. I look forward to seeing this bill tabled on Parliament's table so that we can discuss it, because we have had only a few elements of it today. You have only talked about the service securities sector, but I hope that other sectors will also be affected. I also hope that it will not be just an empty shell and that we can really act. The Social Inspectorate needs to have an arsenal of tools to combat discrimination related to origin, gender, age – it is known that older people and young people are more often affected – and to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u91	Minister, we are looking forward to your bill with great impatience. I hope he goes in the right direction. It seems to me important that the tests be anonymous. If a social inspector asks the director of human resources of a company if he or she discriminates, he or she will of course answer him or her in the negative. You mustn't be naive. It's time to prove it! How? By doing anonymous tests! It is in this sense that we must go. If the sectors show no greater will, it is the public authority that must assume its responsibilities. We must fight for equality in the labour market. Our model of society cannot constantly reproduce inequalities. Part of the population has 30 per cent fewer chances, which pushes it into precariousness. This model of society is not viable for social cohesion. I hope that this bill will be submitted to Parliament in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u92	Mr Minister, as you know, for months the working conditions of police officers have been deteriorating day by day and have led to a general lack of resources, insufficient recruitment, continuous pressure and a proliferation of tasks related to the terrorist threat. Men and women in the field can no longer do so and nothing is done to relieve them, so that they can provide adequate service to citizens. Today, it is the baraemic advancement of at least 40 divisionals that comes in addition to the grunt. If this problem is not new, it takes on a particular dimension, in this general context. It illustrates the dismay of the police, in this case some senior officials, who speak of the possibility of asserting their rights through justice to be heard by the minister. Mr Minister, my group believes that all the police services, given their decisive and essential action in the fight against terrorism, deserve to be treated with respect, from the police officer to the senior executive. The minimum is to do everything possible to ensure that their rights are respected. My questions flow from it. How many Commissioners are affected by the situation reported by workers' organisations to date? What elements have prevented you, at this stage, from bringing together seven persons to examine the files on a case-by-case basis? What is the overall budgetary impact on this issue? More broadly, what about today's social negotiation with police representative organizations? Is there still a schedule for discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u93	Mrs. Ben Hamou, I will clarify a few points. As far as union consultation is concerned, as I said to Parliament on several occasions, we met with the unions two weeks ago. I will meet them again tomorrow, in connection with this strike notice, to inform them of the results of the budgetary control. We've already made some contacts. We are quite satisfied with the results achieved so far. It's one thing. Secondly, with regard to recruitment to the police, as I have already said here, on several occasions we have recruited 1,600 people last year. They are currently in schools. This is how we have to recruit, select and then train people. After this one and a half year cycle, we can integrate them into the police force and into the federal police force. We did it in 2016. We are committing 1,400 this year and 1,400 in the next two years. This will solve the capacity problem at the federal police level. In this case, the reinforcement via HyCaps of local areas for the federal police will be under control. Thirdly, you refer to scales O7 and O8. You're right. This case has been dragging on for years. This is one of the files I took over when I accepted this responsibility. The current situation is that the concertation committee between local police and the federal police has given its green light to a proposal. This proposal has been transferred to the Council of Mayors because the mayors are concerned. In most cases, they are heads of bodies. They welcomed this proposal. The case will now proceed with the normal procedure. I think we can close this case in favour of managers at scales O7 and O8 this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answers. You started by talking about the recruitment of police officers. Nevertheless, I would remind you that you reduced it to 800 as soon as you took up your duties. The opposition always said it was a mistake. The previous government had increased to 1,400 and you have increased it to 800. Today, you recognize him: so much the better! With regard to the baraemic scale file, I hear your willingness to solve the problem. A solution must be found. But today, it is really all the police workers who are waiting for action on your part. It's getting urgent. How to ensure security and law and order in our country when wages do not follow, work with old equipment, work overtime, perform more and more tasks every day... The police are exhausted. It's really time to find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u95	Mr President, Mr Minister, on the basis of information provided by the press, it would be our responsibility to ensure that, in the event of a crisis at the Brussels-National airport, there is still no comprehensive evacuation plan. I've been trying to cross-check this information, as I have some contacts with police forces. I am told that there would be partial evacuation plans for certain parts of buildings at the Brussels-National airport (the office part, the large hall part), but these plans would not be coordinated and workers at the Brussels-National airport would not necessarily have the correct information on the measures to be taken in the event of implementation of the plans, even partial ones. They would not be aware of the measures to be taken to accompany the large number of people who would be present at the airport, nor would they necessarily know the points of assembly or how to assess the number of people to be evacuated, and so on. It is obvious that, if this information were confirmed, it would be a matter of concern. To think that one year after the attacks that we have experienced and which still arouse so much emotion, there would not be today a comprehensive plan to evacuate the airport, that would be a cause for concern. I do not know whether there has already been an exercise, in real time and in the field, to evacuate all or part of the airport. Again, according to trade union sources, this would not be the case, nor would the airport's internal emergency plan (PPUI) probably still exist. It is well known that this has been the subject of debate in its time and that a minister has been put in difficulty in this regard. Mr Minister, give us precise, reassuring information, I dare hope, and let us at least express a willingness to resolve this problem if it is to persist.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u96	Minister, 22 March is a date which is, of course, still in memory. Last year we had Zaventem and Maalbeek, this year London. On such a day, one theme is always very prominent, namely security. Over the last few days there has been a lot to do about safety at our airports. On the one hand, there was criticism that, since the attacks of 22 March last year, there has not been sufficient action to ensure security. Police sources contradicted that and said that there has been sufficient investment and that much is being done. Others also nuanced and said that investment is being made, but too slow. Others are critical of the evacuation plans. In any case, even if the latter does not really fall within your competence, you will not avoid the debate, because security needs to be looked at in its entirety. Minister, what steps have already been taken to ensure security at our airports? What can we expect in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u97	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the distress call we have heard has come because the staff are concerned. The airport staff are not aware of the evacuation plans and no exercises have taken place. This is, of course, detrimental to the safety of staff and passengers. That's what worries me. In the past, there have been very critical reports on the security situation in Zaventem, including the European Commission, with serious political consequences. Safety at an airport is very important and she still remains a worry child. Mr President, the Committee of Inquiry has dealt with this in an initial report. You may know that. In the report, the recommendation is given under border number 70: "The evacuation plans must be reworked and practiced." This is addressed to the government, which is responsible for monitoring it. Apparently, these evacuation plans are neither known nor practiced by the people on the ground, not after 22 March, but apparently not during the more than 23 previous years. In an initial response, you say that you are not actually competent, but that you do want to mediate. But, Minister, as Minister of the Interior, you are responsible for security, aren't you? Isn't emergency planning a matter for the Home Office? That is why I have the following questions for you. How can you explain that these evacuation plans on the ground are not known and not practiced? Was the Home Office aware of this? Were you aware of that? What actions have you taken to address the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u98	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, many questions have already been asked and I do not want to repeat them. From my role as chairman of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, I have never actually asked to speak in parliamentary debates, because I think that conclusions and recommendations should be drawn first. However, Minister, today I am asking you questions, because we have submitted a preliminary report on the part of us concerning emergency aid and emergency aid. Mr Van Hecke has rightly quoted what needs to be done in relation to emergency and intervention plans. Our committee of inquiry found that the emergency and intervention plans, and certainly the particular dimension, lacked terror. We checked whether there was an evacuation plan for Zaventem and that was the case. BAC had access to it. However, it was apparently not practiced and it was not immediately readable; that was one of the findings. In any case, the dimension of terrorism was missing. This dimension had to be incorporated into all emergency and intervention plans as a matter of urgency. We have asked for urgent work to be done on this. Now it appears that no work has been done to date. I ask you the question because this is important. Apart from the question of whether the emergency and evacuation plans exist, I know from my local position that the emergency and intervention plans are also being implemented. Recently we have practiced them in my province in the context of a very specific occasion. Then it becomes apparent that such exercises are needed to determine whether what is theoretically on paper can also work in practice. An evaluation shall be carried out from which conclusions shall be drawn. My questions are as follows. What did you do with the recommendation we delivered in July 2016? To what extent has it been implemented? Have you had any contact with BAC and the airport? Can you give us an update? In view of what happened on 22 March 2016, I was struck yesterday by the dignity of the demonstrations and also by the attitude of the victims. It is therefore our goddamn duty to implement the recommendations we adopt. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your questions. I would certainly like to endorse Mr Dewael's last sentence in relation to the evaluation of yesterday's celebration. Two aspects were addressed in the four questions asked. First the IRAPs. These are the special emergency and intervention plans. These plans form a component with evacuation plans and exercises. Mr De Groote's question concerns another part, namely: all measures taken. These are two parts. With regard to the specific emergency and response plans (PPUI), I can inform you that on 15 March, the National Airport (LAC) approved an intervention plan adapted to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. An exercise is planned for the airport police on 30 March. Evacuation plans are included in PPUI. In connection with the exercises, it is the responsibility of individual companies operating at the airport to plan those exercises. BAC offers these exercises, now with the new BNIP but also in the past, and employers can deal with them. I note with you that a number of companies do so and a number of companies do not. As soon as we have this PPUI, I will send a letter to all the companies located at the airport asking them to determine what exercises they can participate in. In my view, trade unions also have a role to play, because the concertation committee is planning the agenda for the issues to be dealt with. Thanks to the PPUI, we will be able to move forward on this. Mr Degroote, as far as the additional security measures are concerned, I can place all the emotions, but that is not what this is about. I strongly deny that nothing would have been done at the airport in terms of security since 22 March 2016, quite the contrary. What have we all done? First of all, I have committed myself to extending the staff of the airports to 193 people, 99 of whom are for Zaventem and the rest for the other airports. As far as Zaventem is concerned, 31 people have already joined and the remaining 68 will have to be trained at the end of April, after training, and the airport staff will have to be strengthened. Second, we've installed ANPR cameras all over the airport. Thirdly, there is the operative part, which everyone can see when one enters the airport, and the traffic circulation plan was adapted. That's all in place. Fourthly, we have trained all police officers at the airport and continue to train them in the field of behavioural recognition, behavior detection, which consists in looking at who is acting suspiciously and then taking that person aside. All this has already been put in place. What is still going on? Facial recognition cameras have been installed and are currently being tested. Many things have already happened and we are constantly evaluating the situation in practice. To say that nothing has happened and that the situation is not safer than it used to be, is to attack the truth. I can understand a case. If we teach the police at the airport the knowledge to do behavioral recognition, it's not visible. A camera may be visible, as well as patrolling soldiers, but when police officers in uniform or civilian examine people's behaviour, it is not visible. That's the idea. So much for my answers to the two parts of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u100	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear that exercises will be scheduled. I would be happy to know how they will be evaluated. I know that there is a cell within the Ministry of the Interior which I hope will work in support of this plan. Indeed, it would not be understandable that exercises concerning such an important infrastructure as the Brussels-National airport would not be evaluated by experts, and even by European experts. In my view, this should be the case. We do a lot of stress tests for banks. The European Commission has, for its part, imposed uniform procedures to check whether all banking institutions in Europe are capable of resisting systemic risks. It would therefore not be unjustified to do the same at European level for infrastructure as important as airports. Minister, I count on you to carry this message and to report back to us on the evaluation that will be done after the scheduled exercises. We will ask you in due course about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the various initiatives you have already taken. That's very good. In fact, it is striking that this government is very much committed to security, more than previous governments. That's a big change we're going through right now. I also understand that certain matters are subject to procedures, deadlines and formal requirements and that things may not be going that fast. We have to respect that, too. However, when I hear that on 30 March is already a first exercise, work has been done very quickly. Finally, I would like to express my appreciation and thanks to the people on the ground, at the workplace, at the airport staff, at the airport police. They must ensure that passengers' safety and safety are guaranteed in the workplace, in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u102	Minister, you are replying today that we have a plan since 15 March. I simply note that eight days ago the people on the ground, the workers, the trade unions, were apparently unaware that a new plan has been drawn up, which will soon have to be implemented. That is a problem of communication in the whole of the airport. That is a first observation. Secondly, you do not repeat that you are not competent. I like that. That is also very difficult, because if we look at the last plan that exists for Zaventem, dating from 2010, there is a chapter in what needs to be done in the case of "bomb' and "bomb', because that is how it is written on an unnumbered page. The evacuation is arranged as follows: "The federal police will lead the evacuation in the event of a bomb." Of course, the federal police are under your jurisdiction, but apparently no exercises or agreements have been made on this subject that are known on the ground either. It is important that you take that up. I am talking about the 2010 plan which gave a specific task to the federal police. Minister, you and your fellow parties are often very inventive and punishing in formulating many ideas on security, but there are also many small and simple steps to be taken to improve security in the field. I'd like to encourage you to take those steps. We can have major debates on the announcement of a state of emergency, but what is the point of a state of emergency when people in need do not know where to go? Please do something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u103	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We should not polemicize the issue too much. Everyone is well aware of the urgency that still exists today. The threat level remains at 3. I note that the government took action after the attacks. This was debated in Parliament. The majority approved draft laws. I also refer to the work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. It's not the first one. A committee of inquiry works more broadly and in depth and hopefully makes recommendations as unanimously and as unanimously as possible. If recommendations are adopted, they should also be implemented in the shortest possible time. That's what it comes down to. We will all have to see to that, otherwise we will not be doing ourselves any favours. That is also why our committee has already decided to set up a follow-up committee, which will examine closely the extent and speed of implementation of the conclusions and recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u104	Mr President, Minister, yesterday, while the commemorations of the attacks of 22 March 2016 were under way, Islamist terrorism still claimed new victims elsewhere, in the heart of London. Since this morning, it has been important for me to ask you about the possibility of a reply that existed in our country. News has caught up with us. I hope you will be able to provide us with information on the situation in Antwerp, particularly if the trail of Islamist terrorism is a serious lead. The second part of my question concerns the transformations of the terrorist threat. There's guns and explosives. But we also saw the use of a ram vehicle in Nice, as well as in Berlin and London. So we have to adapt. We know that since the Nice bombing, the Crisis Centre had issued a number of advices, had listed urban centres with high attendance, as well as tourist areas. In view of the evolution of the terrorist threat, it is obvious that we will have to really rethink security in terms of urban development, a fortiori in tourist areas. It is a question of whether contacts are now made with local authorities, with the Regions to ensure that pedestrian traffic is sufficiently secure in our cities and in tourist areas, which must remain serene areas. I think we need to move to a higher speed and adapt our urban facilities for the occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u105	Mr Ducrame, here is the information I can provide about the facts of Antwerp. This morning, around 10:45 a.m., a car registered in France was noticed in the centre of Antwerp, near the Meir. She was driving at a very high speed. At different times, pedestrians were put at risk. When members attempted to intercept the vehicle, the vehicle fled. A little later, the Antwerp police rapid response team intercepted the vehicle. The driver was deprived of liberty. He is a man of French nationality, domiciled in France. Various weapons were discovered in the trunk: white weapons, a riot gun and a can containing an undetermined product. The Defence Demining Service is on site to examine the vehicle. In view of the first evidence gathered, and in view of what happened yesterday in London, it was decided to entrust the case to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. This is the official communication from the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. This press release is available on the Belga website. In the meantime, I can still tell you that there are no injuries and that the security perimeter has been lifted. The powder found was removed by the military for further investigation. That is the situation in Antwerp. I come to your question about how we deal with such events. An exchange of information with the local level takes place on a permanent basis. We introduced the CSILs a year ago. Everyone meets, federal services and local services, to exchange information and to see what events took place in these communes. The Crisis Centre transmits to the local government all the information it has about an event, called soft target. The threat, currently level 3, is being considered for these soft targets. As soon as an event is organised, a risk analysis is carried out with the local police. As for Level 3, the events that took place in Orly, London and Antwerp are proof that the OCAM evaluation is good. The risk of an attack is likely and the facts show it. I cannot, here in plenary, reveal everything about how we guard against such acts, but it is basic, especially when it comes to lone wolves, inspired by Daesh or other organizations, that intelligence services can work from communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u106	Minister, thank you. We visited Israel with Members of the MR Group. We have been able to understand how this country, faced with the terrorist threat, has reviewed some of its infrastructure. Indeed, since September 2015, no less than sixty attacks on the ram vehicle have been committed on Israeli soil. Depending on the evolution of the terrorist threat in Europe, there is a more than likely risk that attacks on the ram vehicle will multiply across Europe. It is obvious that we need to go further. We must ensure that your department, the local authorities and the Regions work together. It is a matter of imitating Israel. Despite what he has done, however, he still faces a high rate of attacks on the ram vehicle. It is necessary to rethink our urban development, including in tourist areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u107	Mr Minister, a few months ago, 61 000 files filed in the tax fraud file overwhelmed the public prosecutor. Too much, a large part absolutely irrelevant, let that be clear. Some of the files had gone through certain pathways. We agree on that. However, it cannot be said that the files were there and that they are now there. The exercise to fully filter them for relevance was ongoing with a number of local parquets. The federal prosecutor's office has pulled the files towards him. Then there is the unfortunate signal that the whole package will be dismissed. You will understand that this is a very unfortunate signal on the eve of the conclusions to be drawn in the Panama dossier, in which the Chamber is working very widely on a number of issues: one of these issues is the cooperation between Finance, all the various departments, prosecutors and courts, in order to achieve a coherent and fully comprehensive policy of enforcement and prosecution of fraud cases. I hope we can agree on that. For us, it is important that this dossier should not become exemplary for what we have established so far, in particular the lack of proper integrated cooperation. Or even more punitive, exemplary would be that roulette is going to yield, because a number of files in which capital was not regularized are now completely put under the carpet. Exemplary, because we are beginning to notice that there is a difference in approach between the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking rooms. Mr Minister, do you still understand how the federal prosecutor intervened in order to remove these files from the district offices? Ghent was celebrated yesterday in the committee by Van Calster for the planned approach. How do you intend to achieve a uniform policy of prosecution of our tax fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u108	Mr President, Mr Van de Velde, I know something about fiscal regularisation, in the previous government we have regulated about 2 billion fiscally. Of course, I am very much in favour of a coherent approach to criminal prosecution between Finance and Justice, whether there has been a tax regularisation or not. However, you also know, and you will agree with me in that regard, that if we systematically allow all the files in which there is regularisation to be prosecuted, however reprehensible tax fraud may be, the government's budgetary revenues for regularisation this year will not amount to 300 million. And we realized 13.6 or 20 million or something in that neighborhood last year. I am strongly opposed to tax fraud, I am in favour of criminal prosecution, but let us be clear: the tax authorities cannot strangle 61 000 files, which are simply cut off, all of them, without the insider knowledge of the tax administration. We agree on that. And we also know, Mr van de Velde, with all due respect to the tax officer who cut off these files and to his sense of citizenship, that it would be normal for the tax authority to prepare those files and to inform the public prosecutors, for example, in which 3 000 files of the 61 000 are the capitals to be discussed. That would be another story. Mr van de Velde, you also know that a sepot is not definitive. Those 61 000 files, or 1 000, 500, 300 or 2 000 of them, can always be reopened. The only thing I would dare to ask is for people to think deeply about this. The federal prosecutor said yesterday it's not there for fishing expeditions. It has also said that it is working on a weighted policy-driven criminal approach. Together with colleague Van Overtveldt, I try to set up an una-viapolitics. I went to both ministries. Let me say that this is not so easy. These are two different traditions and techniques. If the BBI had submitted a number of files in coordination with the Minister or its own Director-General, I think that the answer of the public prosecutor would have been very forward-looking. But think of two things: the future proceeds of regularisation and the selection of the files as required by Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u109	Mr Minister, we agree on 80% of the course. I believe that we should not underestimate the signal given today. I also believe that we should include the equal treatment of dossiers in the Dutch and French Chambers. Since EBA alone, 6 000 files have been cleared: 4 000 French and 2 000 Dutch. The difference in the declaration of capital was 50% in the Dutch files and 6% in the French files. This means that the prosecution policy needs to be addressed very strongly and that we must send out a clear signal. We missed a chance here. I understand that these 61 000 files are an exaggerated number. I would like to say this for the record, but they could have been strangled perfectly and I hope that will be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u110	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after last week's hallelujah cry about the fact that PS Minister Marcourt would organise an admission test, I see once again very big clouds coming towards us this week. Madame Minister, La Libre Belgique of the past weekend reports that the Planning Committee has finished its opinion on the key for the RIZIV numbers for the period 2023-2026. When we look at that opinion, we see that it is different from the 60/40 system we want. It reaches a 58/42 distribution. Madam Secretary, my first question is this. Will you follow that advice for the Flemings? Secondly, there are quotas for 2022. For the quotas for 2022, too, the Planning Committee comes out with a different opinion. It proposes a 565/43.5 distribution. Consequently, there is no 60/40 distribution here either. For the quotas for 2022, there should have been a royal decision. It should have been there by December 2016. Last week I heard you answer that you would come up with a solution. However, you were very vague in your reply. After all, you no longer spoke of a royal decision. How do you intend to solve the problem? Thirdly, Madam Minister, there are the judgments of the Council of State, which put you in the mud of the RIZIV numbers. After all, what does the Council of State decide on the quotas for 2021? The Council notes that quotas are arbitrary and illegal. Madam Secretary, that will, of course, be a dangerous point for the future. After all, all future royal decrees will suffer the same fate. It is enough for one French-speaking student to go to the Council of State to have it hanged. We'll be in trouble. Mr President, I will conclude in a moment. We know that the admission test has been in Flanders since 1997, after which the French Community was followed in 2017, which is indeed twenty years later. Madam Minister, what do I hear from the Planning Committee? She stated that the updated RIZIV numbers of the future should be able to be settled, which is also your proposal. However, it also states that this set-off would take place over a period of 15 years. Madam Minister, if I count correctly, that period does not start until 2023, which means that the account will not be settled until 2038. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u111	Mrs Wouters, I would like to explain once again the progress of the medical supply planning dossier. In order to determine the quotas for 2023 and to obtain the additional certificates for the students from 2017 onwards, according to the co-ordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of healthcare professions, there is a need for a validated advice from the Planning Committee. The advice you refer to comes from a newspaper. It is therefore not the validated opinion, since that opinion has not yet been validated. It is a difficult dossier and it is also about more than that, whatever the speeches made here last week. In addition to determining quotas and giving additional certificates, the dossier deals mainly with the planning of medical supplies and a number of elements which are inextricably linked to quotas, such as the activity of foreign doctors and so on. I said it last week and I repeat it: the government certainly intends to assume its responsibility in the coming days as regards the issuing of certificates and the setting of quotas for 2023 and the following years. I'm sorry, Mrs. Wouters, but I'm not basing myself on newspaper articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u112	Madam Secretary, you say that the opinion has not yet been validated. That is hopeful news, but I hope that what is now on the table will not be validated. After all, if we are talking about a 15-year settlement period, that would mean that we would not get the full set-up of RIZIV numbers until 2038. That's one. Secondly, Madam Minister, I would like to point out that you will always have legal problems, because the French-speaking chambers of the Council of State leave you no choice. They oblige you to release the 60/40 scheme. It is, of course, up to you to come up with solutions. I have one solution for you, Madam Minister: the federalism! You certainly don't need a two-thirds majority for that. You can, by a majority, approve a KB that the ministerial committees... Thank you for running away when someone answers you, Madam Secretary. You can perfectly set up companies by ordinary law, which then manage the funds for each Community. That is the advice you have given, because that was also the case with the national economic sectors in 1980. I would have liked you to wait until I had finished my reply, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u113	Mr President, Mr Minister, my question is linked to three subjects of concern to us all: the image of the airport and Belgium, social peace, and the overflight of Brussels. We learn from the press that Belgocontrol has been confronted with a request from the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office to interview individual controllers who manage the use of the airport runways. According to Belgocontrol, it was the request of the prosecutor's office that aroused the concern of the workers, in particular, of the trade union organization CSC-Transcom, which envisaged the filing of a strike notice, which would have taken place during the Easter holidays. We know how sensitive Belgians are in this regard. But this kind of action is also important for the image of Brussels. In an attempt to find a solution to this problem, your firm has organized a meeting with the trade union organisations and Belgocontrol. Minister, could you please let me know – I suppose your answer will be of interest even to Mrs Fonck, who is not listening – the outcome of these discussions? Have the concerns of the unions been removed? What is your position on the question of individual hearings, of course, while respecting the separation of powers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I mention the outcome of the discussions, I would like to clarify the origin of the request, because some, whether voluntarily or not, combine the audit I have requested with an investigation initiated by the courts since 2010. On the one hand, I asked for an audit to understand what had happened between October 2 and 10, 2016 in the selection of runways according to the weather. This request was in no way related to the October 5 incident since, when I requested the audit, I was not aware of it. I have neither imposed nor prohibited any means of action on the DGTA in charge of the audit. In addition, I have committed to forwarding the final report of this audit to you once it has been communicated to me, which the DGTA is about to announce. This commitment remains intact. On the other hand, as part of an investigation opened in 2010, an investigating judge asked to receive the identity of the controllers present in the tower in Brussels for 68 days in 2011, 85 days in 2012, 73 days in 2013 and 9 days in 2016. Under the principle of separation of powers, it is not for me, in my capacity as minister, to intervene in this procedure. We must not confuse the audit I asked for with the judicial investigation, let us not be mistaken about the debate! Track selection is a complex process in which safety is a priority. There can be no derogation from this rule. In this context, I have confidence in the professionalism of the air traffic controllers and the execution staff of Belgocontrol. But in order for a company to be effective, the organization as a whole must best combine companies and the professionalism of everyone. This responsibility rests with management. In this context, I want to take on my role. I have heard from trade union organisations the importance attached to what the specialists call just culture, a principle developed following the tragic events that led to the assassination of an air traffic controller in Switzerland in 2004. In this context, a working group will study the establishment of a legal framework with Belgian supervisors to do so in a similar way to what is happening in Switzerland, France and other neighbouring countries. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u115	Thank you, Minister, I do recognize your approach here: systematic, listening and dialogue. It's important. Mrs. Onkelinx laughs a little, but she doesn't graduate from ENA. It is important to have a method to solve problems. That's what you're doing, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall close oral questions here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u117	V Earrings submitted by: Proposal submitted by: Philippe Goffin, David Clarinval, Benoît Friart, Vincent Scourneau.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u118	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Rapporteurs Özlem Özen and Raf Terwingen referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u119	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2196/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2196/3) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u120	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u121	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Hendrik Bogaert, Roel Deseyn, Gautier Calomne, Philippe Goffin, Carina Van Cauter, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Sophie De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u122	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u123	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1952/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1952/7) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law of 22 March 1999 on the identification procedure through DNA investigations in criminal matters." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Code of Criminal Investigation and the Act of 22 March 1999 on the procedure for identification by DNA analysis in criminal matters." The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u124	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u125	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Christian Brotcorne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u126	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Özlem Özen and Goedele Uyttersprot, referred to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u127	Mr President, I am very pleased to see that this text comes back to this House, after a first attempt at the end of which we referred it to the Committee on Justice, which amended it somewhat. Contrary to what the title of the bill might suggest, it is more precisely a question of providing that, in all alternative means of resolving a conflict, apart from judicial proceedings - mediation, arbitration or expertise - the free choice of a qualified professional may also be acquired by anyone who subscribes to legal protection. The scope of application is therefore extended beyond the choice of lawyer in a judicial or administrative phase. I am pleased that the text has been able to obtain unanimity in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have to vote for a proposal which aims to extend the free choice of a lawyer or any person with the qualifications required by law, and for all judicial stages under a legal protection insurance contract. The insured person now has the choice of his lawyer, but this choice does not concern alternative dispute resolution methods. However, as has been reiterated, the free choice of a lawyer is absolutely important in a democratic society because it is a fundamental right, the right of defence which is enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights in its Article 6. I hope that this time will be the right time and that the pressure from insurance groups will not change the opinion of certain political groups. It was after this incident that the committee decided to hold hearings and, during these hearings, it became clear that, in order to comply with the case-law of the Court of Justice, legislative clarification was necessary. In its judgment of 7 November 2013, the Court of Justice of the European Union stated that the principle of free choice, as set out in Article 4 of the Directive on legal protection insurance, is intended to protect the interests of insured persons broadly, so that a restrictive interpretation cannot be allowed. The free choice of counsel is therefore a general and binding principle and the extension of this proposal is in line with European case law. If financial reasons have been invoked by insurance groups, they cannot, of course, take precedence over the consecration of a fundamental right which is the right of defence, as I mentioned earlier. In order to reach a compromise with the majority, the scope of this choice has been reduced for mediation. The choice can be made only for a person with the required qualifications and not for the lawyer. We regret that we have not been able to go further, which would have allowed the litigant to choose either a lawyer or a qualified mediator. We believe that the free choice of a lawyer should be possible as soon as the interests of the insured require protection. As I said, legislative intervention was needed to clarify the legal arsenal, in order to promote legal certainty for the accused. For all these reasons, my group will support our colleague Mr Brotcorn's proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will support this text with great conviction for the reasons already mentioned by the previous speaker. It is a very positive text. Those are the real quick wins. We often talk about quick wins in our committee, and the Minister needs thick potpourri. It is also to the credit of the Committee on Justice that there is openness. That is the culture with us and I am very pleased with it. There is the culture of supporting each other's sober, good texts across the boundaries of majority and opposition. I hope we can continue to work that way. I would very much like to congratulate Mr Brotcorne on his proposal, and I would also like to thank the majority for allowing the opposition to approve such texts. More of that, I'd say.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u130	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u131	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (192/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (192,7) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance and in order to ensure the free choice of a lawyer or any other person who, under the law applicable to the procedure, has the qualifications necessary to defend his interests at any stage of the administration of justice in the context of a legal aid insurance contract." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 to guarantee the free choice of a lawyer or any other person with the qualifications required by the law applicable to the proceedings to defend his interests in any judicial phase, in the framework of a legal protection insurance contract." The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u132	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u133	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u134	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2263/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2263/5) The draft law contains 27 articles and 2 annexes. The bill has 27 articles and 2 annexes. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u135	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u136	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Özlem Özen, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u137	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2264/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2264/5) The draft law contains 34 articles and 2 annexes. The bill has 34 articles and 2 annexes. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u138	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u139	Proposals submitted by: Proposals submitted by: - 2131: Yoleen Van Camp, Valerie Van Peel, Renate Hufkens, Jan Vercammen, Nathalie Muylle, Els Van Hoof - 2304: Damien Thiéry, Benoît Piedboeuf, Luc Gustin, Denis Ducarme. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u140	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Regt 85.4) (2131/7) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (2131/7) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Daniel Senesael, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u141	Mr President, sixty thousand people in this country have epilepsy. No one's asking to have that condition. I believe that we, as a society, have a duty to deal with this as best we can. The figures show, however, that this is not the case today. Every year, around 300 million euros go to the cost of people with epilepsy. Importantly, most of these costs, 75 % to 80 %, are due to lack of work and therefore do not go to quality care at all. With this resolution, the committee unanimously supports the proposal to improve it. We started with a round table in spring 2016, for which we brought together patients, patient associations and experts in Parliament. They could put their grievances on the table and make us, policy makers, diets that can be better done with the care for epilepsy. Those grievances were very clear. Number one, that won't surprise you, is breaking the huge stigma that still rests on epilepsy today. This means that even today people do not receive the treatment they are entitled to, because their condition is not known and because they do not find the way to the possible treatments and especially to the specialised centres, which are indeed there in this country. I pulled the numbers. Apparently, up to one in ten people find his way to those specialized centers, and one in four people with epilepsy don't respond well to medication. It is mainly those people who should be able to go to these specialised centres. After all, they are not being treated adequately, or the medication does not work without their help. It is really appropriate that they explore other treatment options in the specialized centers, such as surgery, nerve stimulation or a diet. Today we see that there is concern, but that the diversion is insufficient. A second point that was raised by the patients and their carers in particular was that people who do find their way to the specialised centres are very satisfied with the care there, but that the support can still be more humane. If one does not have the condition, it is difficult to imagine what this means daily. To name but one thing: driving or taking the bike are things that are no longer obvious. That is why the resolution also calls for more human care and better psychosocial support for people with epilepsy. I have already said that in committee we were able to count on the Commission's support for the proposal. I'm delighted to hear that. I would also like to express my thanks to my colleagues from the opposition for their support and, above all, their contribution to the proposal. The same goes, of course, for the majority coalition partners, who have helped to refine the proposal further and who, for example, have jointly tabled a proposal to make even more use of the lead to work and to raise the awareness of employers so that we can also increase employment opportunities. I decide the way I started. No one's asking for epilepsy. No one's asking to be born with that. No one's asking to have that condition. As policy makers, we have a fucking duty to set up a society that deals with it as well as possible and that ensures that people receive appropriate treatment at an early stage. That is why we are calling for better registration of which treatments are being given today and whether they are adequate. The few figures we have are a clear indication that this is not the case. I can do better than that. Only when we have a quick lead to the right care, the wee medication or specialized centers, can we act early. If the disease is under control, and there is an opportunity today, and if we can achieve it early, then we will ensure that opportunities are greatly increased both in education and, of course, in the labour market, but also in social life. This makes a big difference to the quality of life and, of course, to the social costs that we are not spending properly today. Once again, I would like to thank my colleagues from the opposition and the majority for supporting this motion for a resolution. I look forward to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs Van Camp said, epilepsy is a disease affecting 60,000 people in our country. It is a not to be underestimated condition that has a huge impact on the patient's life, both for his health and for social and economic reasons. I would therefore like to congratulate the initiator of the N-VA and the initiator of the MR on their respective resolutions. Both have triggered us to examine what measures are needed to move forward. This resolution was the subject of an interesting interaction between majority and opposition in the Health Committee. I believe that this parliamentary commitment from all sides has led to a solid text which intends to address a number of problems. Our group believes that it is important for us to have a clear view of the problem. Registration, as proposed in the resolution, is absolutely desirable. However, it is not possible to include everything in a generic registration. Because indirect costs are difficult to record, we have proposed that the health and social impact of epilepsy should also be assessed by means of a sample survey, together with data from the register. The insights we gain in this way can then serve as a basis for policy initiatives. We also ask for quality indicators for diagnostics, treatment and quality of life for patients. In this way, we can monitor to what extent the policy achieves its objective and again where it may need to be adjusted. A clear problem outlined in the resolution is the lack of knowledge in patients and care providers of treatment options. We really want to bet on that. We see today that people are not being referred to reference centres fast enough. Good information to patients, doctors and healthcare providers can improve this. Finally, we believe that we should look at the causes of the waiting lists we know at our reference centres. We're not alone in that respect. They also exist in the neighbouring countries. However, it is necessary to investigate why those waiting lists exist. We also welcome the CD&V amendment which drew our attention to the need to emphasise sufficiently the role of the first line, which, of course, always has to be short-circuited with the specialist and the reference centre. After all, we believe that this first line has a crucial role to play in guiding the patient, particularly in the field of therapy loyalty. In this sense, we also find Mrs Jiroflée's amendment interesting. When we have to make progress, looking at how we can improve that guidance is essential. Enabling a reference nurse is not necessarily the solution. That guidance should be close to the patient. I believe that the first line will come back into view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u143	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In my turn, I wanted to thank the authors of the resolutions that have been proposed to us to reflect together on how to better take into account people who suffer from epilepsy, knowing that it is a disease that can take different forms, with crises of varying magnitude, sometimes crises that scare the person himself, his family and his entourage. Around this concern, which concerns the care of the most suitable health care for these people, there was also the concern, shared by Ecolo and Groen, of better information for the population, better support for citizens, employers and colleagues, to enable them to continue to live and participate in social and professional life. The other element, which is also important to us in these texts, concerns the desire to ensure that the registration in Belgium of data relating to people who suffer, the type of treatment, the effectiveness of treatment is improved. It is also necessary to take into account the situation of the reference centres needed for people suffering from refractory epilepsy and for whom multidisciplinary and particularly pointed or specialized interventions are needed. In this regard, it was felt that there was a need to assess as closely as possible how these centres met the needs and how the funding or recognition of these centres was tailored to the needs of the centres themselves. Are there sufficient numbers of such centres? Are the financial resources they receive adequate? Is their geographical distribution the best in relation to the areas to be covered? The minister's representative drew our attention to the fact that Wallonia may have lacked centres. There's only one! In any case, it is necessary to assess the situation in order to be able to make arrangements. These are all the reasons why we supported the text proposed in the Committee on Health by also drawing attention to the concern about family members, be it parents, brothers, sisters, children, but also close caregivers who, obviously, have an important role to play alongside people suffering from epilepsy. All of these actors sometimes find it difficult to ensure this presence with the sick. Not only do we support, but we also thank members for the work done in the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u144	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u145	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u146	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u147	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u149	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2310/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2310/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u150	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u151	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Johan Klaps, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us deals with a number of interesting issues, including stricter rules for lenders. I have already questioned the Minister a number of times about the derailments of credits that people are getting put up in grocery stores. He said that he would speed up inspection services, but it is, of course, still better to make clearer rules. This happens with a number of articles in the present design. This goes from informing customers and checking the credit rating of the lenders to having model contracts submitted to the FPS Economy. There are also technical issues in the draft, such as the European transposition of the monitoring of the implementation of the so-called PRIIP Regulation. This is specifically about the so-called packaged retail investment products and insurance-based investment products. That is clearly legislative material for the lovers. In fact, there was little discussion about this in the Committee on Business. The bill also provides for a number of relaxations in the bankruptcy law, so that there can also be a restoration of honour for bankrupts after ten years. Finally, there is also a bit of order in the legal and accounting functioning of the world exhibitions. That has so far been dealt with far too ad hocly. The present draft provides for the establishment of a Belgian Commissioner-General for the International Exhibitions. Let us hope that the new Commissioner-General will have control over the often derailed budgets for the world exhibitions and that we, as Members of Parliament, will also have greater access to the operation and finances of this kind of prestige projects through reports from this Commissioner. As in committee, I would also like to refer specifically to the last part of the draft, which deals with the so-called modernisation of the operation of the National Delcredere Service, which guarantees companies when they invest in countries at risk. In politics, we have often talked about greater transparency and openness in recent weeks and months, which is good. But what do we see happening here? Ministers are closing the door to transparency for many NGOs under the guise of trade secret legislation. We must not forget that this is a public service which must comply with the rules on access rights. On the committee, the minister was spouting a lot of fog. He spawned us saying that Parliaments can still look at all the documents. That can of course be, because we, as a Member of Parliament, have a little more possibilities as regards access rights. He admitted that NGOs with new, so-called more modern and more business-efficient rules can indeed get less insight into Delcredere. We find this unacceptable, and that is why we will now retable our amendment in plenary in order to clarify that it is still a public service, which is therefore governed by the rules on public access to administration and the right of access, not only for Members of Parliament but for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the Council of State has also pointed out the possible democratic deficit in an opinion. In fact, the Constitutional Court is warning against the destruction of the provision. Once again, I am tabling my amendment to Article 77, which we have disputed, which has become 79 for the experts in committee, and today Article 82 is all about the same article, so that the restrictive control is reduced. I would very much like to quote the Council of State, because there was discussion on this in committee: "The protection of confidential business information is a fundamental right because that information is covered by business secrecy." Where administrative transparency concerns such information, a proper balance should be struck between this fundamental right and the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 32 of the Constitution. In the present case, the protection of business secrets is already guaranteed by Article 6 of the Law of 11 April 1994. A general and absolute derogation, such as that provided for in Articles 77 and 79 or 82 of the preliminary draft budget, may be all the less acceptable since, in view of the different information, it is in any event necessary, on a case-by-case basis, to ascertain whether business secrecy is indeed at stake. In view of the balance to be maintained between the right of access to administrative documents and the protection of business secrecy, a document containing confidential information should, as far as possible, be adapted to allow for partial disclosure. A document must be completely excluded from public access only if there is no other way to do so. Consequently, according to the Council of State, it seems difficult to accept that a priori all documents received or produced by Delcredere constitute confidential business information which should not be made accessible at all. If the author of the preliminary draft budget were to persist in this design, he would be in danger of being destroyed by the Constitutional Court for non-constitutional reasons. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of State is very clear. On the one hand, the so-called purpose of the article, which is to protect confidential business information, is already regulated by law. I repeat that, on the other hand, the current article is at great risk of being destroyed by the Constitutional Court for unconstitutional reasons. For me, it is clear that the article does not aim to protect business information, but rather to break down transparency and make it difficult to find information. Colleagues, that is a false signal. A government must be transparent and clear about what it does with its money. Either the Delcrederedienst is therefore a public body which carries out its task with tax money and is therefore transparent, or the service becomes a private company, which no longer works with public funds. For this reason, with Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, I am again tabling the same amendment which I have already defended in committee and which was supported by the entire opposition. The intention is to redefine Article 82 by our amendment. In practical terms, we want to replace Article 11 with the aim of maintaining existing transparency and introducing the OECD guidelines for multinational companies, which are part of the internationally accepted level playing field for private and public enterprises, and to explicitly incorporate them into the law on the National Delcredere Service. We want this because the Delcredere Service must not only work transparently for us, but also uphold certain international standards, in particular the OECD guidelines for international companies. In addition, Delcredere must require its clients, in particular the companies for which the service is guarantor, to comply with the same OECD standards. Ladies and gentlemen, if the majority does not follow up on the comments made by the Council of State and rejects our amendment, we shall have to re-examine this important issue by means of a legislative proposal. I look forward to the vote and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to repeat everything that Mr Detiège has already said. I would like to focus briefly on two points which are important in the present draft law. We are pleased that, in response to our request, the Minister has provided a solution to the occupational ban on insurance intermediaries and credit intermediaries after bankruptcy. Previously, a distinction was made between self-employed persons with and without a company. Directors and managers of a company declared bankrupt were excluded from the professions of intermediary and intermediary for mortgage credit or insurance, self-employed persons without a company were not excluded. In the context of a level playing field, that is clearly not justified. I am therefore pleased that these people will be given a new opportunity, but, of course, my fellow Members, the approval of the FSMA will still be required for a new licence. Cowboys are being repelled anyway. Of course, it is still important to distinguish between a deceptive and non-deceptive bankruptcy. I was gonna give that to you anyway. I would also like to comment on Mr Detiège's amendment and on his colleagues on Delcredere. Mr Detiège, I would like to stress once again, as in committee, that the Delcredere Service has nothing in itself to do with arms exports. I understand that NGOs want transparency and that MEPs want transparency on the granting of arms export licences. That is right and we share that concern. However, once that authorisation has been granted, it is merely a private-law obligation and therefore not the decision and the granting of the licence as such. This is also confirmed by the Council of State. If there is a problem with foreign arms licences, then we need to find out where the problem really is. That is where we can see the problem very well, ladies and gentlemen, because that problem does not arise in Flanders. The issue of permits is very well regulated in Flanders. In Wallonia, on the other hand, it seems to have been dealt with very laxly. In 2003, regionalisation was regulated in a fuck and a quick one, ladies and gentlemen. That state reform suddenly went very quickly, when it was necessary for Wallonia. Arms exports in Flanders have since been halved. If we still have export licences, then we are talking about displays, electronics and so on. When it comes to arms exports in Wallonia, it is about firearms and ammunition. I think that should be looked at, because one in three Walloon weapons goes straight to the Middle East and we know what happens to them. I therefore propose that you call on your Socialist colleagues in the south of the country to review the licensing policy thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u154	Mr President, a very brief response to Mr Klaps. In committee, he also tried to politicise this issue. I want to dot the i's. If the Council of State says that there are problems and that the regulation is even unconstitutional, then it is Parliament's duty to respond clearly. We need transparency, everyone knows that. Therefore, approve the amendments tabled by Mr Delizée and Mr Van der Maelen and myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u155	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u156	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2331/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2331/5) The draft law has 115 articles. The bill has 115 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u157	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u158	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u159	The Conference of Presidents of 22 March 2017 proposes to the Chamber of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Special Committee on "International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers" until 31 May 2017, as well as to renew the mandate of the Permanent Experts of the Special Committee (Mrs Bourgeois and Mr Delanote). The Conference of Presidents on 22 March 2017 proposes to the House of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Special Commission on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers until 31 May 2017 and to renew the mission of the permanent experts of the Special Commission (MM. Bourgeois and Delanote). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u160	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 9 February 2017, a call to candidates for the two-year term of office of alternate non-notary member of the French-speaking Notary Committee has been published in the category "external members' in the Belgian Official Journal of 15 February 2017. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 9 February 2017, an appeal to the candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 15 February 2017 for the term of two years as an alternate non-notary member to the Commission de nomination pour le notariat de langue française, category "external members". The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Philippe Damman, successor to the Supreme Court of Justice; - Mr Patrick Gielen, bailiff. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr. Philippe Damman, successor to the Supreme Council of Justice; - Mr. Patrick Gielen, housekeeper of justice. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 March 2017, the curriculum vitae of candidates will be delivered to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 March 2017, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u161	At the plenary session of 16 March 2017, Ms Regine Claeys was appointed first deputy chairman of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. During the plenary session on March 16, 2017, Ms.Regine Claeys was appointed as the first Deputy Chair of the Standing Committee on Police Services Control. The Chamber should therefore appoint a second deputy chairman. The House must therefore appoint a second alternate Speaker. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 March 2017, I propose that you publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of the second deputy chairman of the P Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 March 2017, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the term of office of second alternate Chairman of the P Committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u162	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u163	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (2196/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (2196/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame that we should abstain on such a bill. She would normally have received our support. But we lack the elements to be able to vote knowingly. This text raises questions about privacy. Adding a category of people to a DNA database, allowing unlimited processing and storage of data and allowing minors to consent to sampling, are all elements that raise legitimate questions. The unlimited retention of data from unconvicted persons has already been considered a violation of the right to privacy. Consent to provide DNA does not justify unlimited retention. However, I do not claim that the bill violates the Privacy Act. But neither can I say that there are no problems. I regret to note that the majority did not want to ask these questions by refusing to seek the advice of the Privacy Commission. However, a period of one month would have allowed us to be set. I absolutely do not understand the urgency that prompted us to vote on this text. Indeed, it is not a very serious way of working for a parliament. It is singular that in the Committee on Justice, texts are sent without sufficient analysis. Ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that under these conditions, and when no debate has taken place, we cannot support this proposal. We will therefore abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u166	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 92 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 48 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1952/8) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1952/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u167	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (192.8) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (192.8) Mr Van Biesen and Mr Lutgen and Mrs Lijnen voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u168	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2263/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2263/6) Mr Bogaert and Mr Top voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u169	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2264/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2264/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u170	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2131/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2131/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u171	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2310/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2310/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u172	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Maya Detiège cs on Article 82. (2331/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Maya Detiège cs to Rule 82. (2331/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 56 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 82 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 82 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 78 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 62 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2331/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2331/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Piedboeuf has voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-23-54-plenair-ip162x.u174	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 30 March 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 30 March 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 30 March 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 30 March 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
