ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 17568 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u2	I ask this question with mixed feelings. We have waited a long time for the reform, which some had hoped would not come. In any case, for reasons of efficiency and cost-benefit analysis, I believe that the reform of the peace process should be implemented. So I fully support that you have prepared and performed that exercise, even though there are always winners and losers. As far as the canton of Geel is concerned, a lot of questions are also being asked. After all, there are a number of bitter comments to be made on the dossier. Let's go over the history. With the approval of the reform, the nuclear cabinet has decided to retain the canton of Geel, but to house the court elsewhere. For example, the peace court of Geel will be placed with the Registry at the seat of the peace court of the canton of Mol. Of course, that's a little harsh for the city of Yellow. As early as 2009, the city of Geel started talks with the Ministry of Justice about a new location for the peace court of Geel, as evidenced by the correspondence and the documents of the Patrimonium of the city of Geel. From 2013 onwards, the city of Geel had as an interlocutor in the matter the Government of the Buildings, because the authority over the housing had come into its hands. At that time, a purchase agreement with the city of Geel was negotiated with the interested party, who then pre-financed the investments for a new building at the new location for the peace court of Geel. That building has been completely finished for a few years now, with furnishings and all sworn treasurers have estimated the value of the furnished building. Afterwards, the Regie asked the city of Geel to negotiate a lease instead of a purchase agreement. The right modalities were also negotiated for a long time, until there was a ready-made lease at some point. There have been several contacts and exchanges of letters on this subject. The last report received by the city of Geel from the Government of the Buildings in mid-2015, was that, despite the agreement on the lease, the Regie could not sign in view of the announced reform of the peace courts by the Minister of Justice. The contact was then broken for a while and we had to wait for the reform of the peace courts. Now it appears that the peace court of Geel is unable to move to the new location, while some EUR 1.2 million of investments have been made, including EUR 585 483.67 in furnishings with parquet floors, for example, at the specific request of the peace court of Geel. That can be substantiated on the basis of the file. As a co-resident and policymaker in the city of Geel, I regret these investments and believe it is only natural that fair compensation should be negotiated now that the reform of the peace courts has been approved. Minister, is the decision to reform the peace courts, firstly, final? Can the canton of Geel still sit in Geel? I understand that it would be possible if the city of Geel provided a location for that purpose. Secondly, what is the further timing for the reform and relocalisation of the Yellow Peace Court? Thirdly, can you commit yourself, in view of the progress of that dossier, to plead with the federal government for compensation from the city of Geel for the investments made in the construction and specific arrangement of the peace process in the Ecodrome project? Finally, who is competent to study such compensation and financial compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u3	Mrs Smaers, I understand that the decision is difficult for you and the city of Geel. Of course, the matter still has to be submitted to the Council of Ministers and the law has to be amended in Parliament, but the decision of principle has indeed been taken. Of course, there is the possibility for a city of a double canton such as yours to hold, as I have explained on several occasions, a sitting room sous löwarbre. Its definition is included in the draft law known as the draft Law "Potpourri V.V.," which is currently being discussed in the Committee on Justice. As far as timing is concerned, I also refer to previous answers. It is a complex and comprehensive dossier and the administration is currently in the process of taking all the necessary steps for the implementation and preparation of the related planning. The negotiation of housing is the responsibility of the Government of the Buildings. It should include these aspects with the city of Geel. For my part, I will have contact with you in order to highlight the specific details of your case. I am committed to arguing with Mr Jambon that this could happen in the best possible conditions for your city.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, some people in the city hope that the peace court will still be housed in our city. However, I understand that for reasons of efficiency, you are making a certain decision in the area of justice. In any case, I would like to thank you for your commitment to your colleague in charge of the Government of the Buildings, in order to promote a solution which could be to pay compensation for the investments made in a mutual agreement between the city of Geel, the peace court of Yellow and the federal government. So the matter is being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u5	Minister, in the past you have repeatedly expressed your support for alternative, out-of-court dispute resolution, in particular mediation. I can only agree to this because this is the way to find a solution that is acceptable to each party in the dispute. It also responds to your starting point of bringing fewer disputes to justice. My questions are as follows. Are you considering initiatives in the context of out-of-court solutions on debt issues? If so, which ones are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u6	Mrs Lambrecht, as you rightly point out, I am in favour of resolving a number of disputes outside the courts. Everyone usually wins, both the parties and the government. This also applies to disputes relating to debt issues. I am in favour of the many initiatives that exist to guide and support people facing excessive debt problems. These initiatives, based, for example, on OCMWFs or private organisations, do not fall within my competence. However, I am in favour of this approach, provided it is efficient and effective, which is the case in many situations. With the introduction of the procedure for the recovery of undisputed debts, with the Act of 19 October 2015 "the Potpourri I', entered into force in July 2016, when the platform was finished, we have taken an important step to keep these proceedings as far as possible out of court, with many benefits for debtors. It is a procedure which informs the debtor, causes much less costs which would be charged to that debtor, sets a maximum limit on the additional costs that are required and in many cases leads to payment arrangements between the parties, which would not have been made without the procedure. Although the first signals are positive, it is too early to make an overall assessment of this new procedure. She must be sufficiently well-established for that. I hope to be able to take the second step in modernising the collective debt regime before the recess. In Potpourri IV the digital platform was approved. The second step is to adapt the procedure for debt mediation to the digital environment. Here, too, a significant reduction in costs and efficiency gains must be achieved in favour of those facing excessive debt and in favour of the government. Finally, I would like to refer to the draft law on insolvency which I will be explaining next week in the committee responsible for the Problems of Trade and Economic Law. These designs also include measures, such as faster changeability and the separation of future income from the bankrupt estate, which help people to free themselves from a debt problem in which they have ended up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u7	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u8	Mr President, Minister, unpaid invoices are sometimes quickly recovered. The intellectual work involved is very limited. Unless a dispute is raised, standard documents are used which mainly require administrative work. It does not therefore seem logical to us that ordinary judicial fees should be paid for this type of standard recovery. My question is therefore whether you are considering introducing a specific lower legal fees for such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the system of redress for a lawyer's remuneration was introduced by the Law of 21 April 2007, which put an end to the legal uncertainty that had arisen in this respect following the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 2 September 2004. In the end, the legislator has opted for a forfait. The judicial allowance shall be a flat-rate allowance in the costs and remuneration of the lawyer of the successful party, Article 1023 of the Code of Civil Procedure. The logic of the forfait implies that the precise reality of the work performed and the specific characteristics of each procedure cannot be taken into account. Moreover, the system in question is not merely flat-rate. The basis is flat-rate, but the judge has a discretion within the margin between a maximum and a minimum. If the court departs from the basic amount of the judicial fee, it shall have several criteria for its decision, including the complexity of the case. For example, a party may at any time ask the court to reduce the judicial fee on the basis of that criterion, which may lead to both an increase and a reduction. In this way, account can be taken of the volume of work caused by the complexity of the case, in order to increase or reduce the legal fees. My administration is currently preparing a draft law and a royal decision to bring into force the law of 21 February 2010. This law amends the provision of the justice allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u10	Minister, I understand that the basis is flat-rate and that it is up to the courts to reduce compensation. In fact, my question was whether it is not possible to look at the flat-rate fees for such things, because they are very high when you simply take a standard form. Perhaps this will be possible in the future, in order to reduce costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u11	Minister, unlike other prisons in Belgium, where the population fell in the last few months of 2016, the number of prisoners in the prison in Saint Gillis increased to an unprecedented level. There are now around 900 inmates. That's way above the maximum capacity of 850. The situation has become untenable for both security personnel and detainees. After two months of prison strikes last year, you announced that you would turn the Prince's prison into a prison house and the St. Gillis prison into a home of custody. The maximum limit for the prison of Saint Gilis was then laid at 850 prisoners. At the end of last month, the government trade union ACOD submitted a new ten-day strike announcement for the prison staff of Saint Gillis. The demand of the socialist trade union is only 850 prisoners in a building that actually has a maximum capacity of 620 prisoners. According to the mayor of Saint Gillis, Charles Picqué, the security of the prisoners, the visitors and the guards is compromised. He announced that he would order the police to keep every new inmate at the prison gate as long as the maximum limit of 850 inmates is not respected. Hence my questions. How do you explain the increase in the number of prisoners in St. Gillis' prison? Why is the maximum limit of 850 prisoners not respected? What measures will you take to respect the maximum limit of 850 prisoners and to guarantee the security of detainees, visitors and guards? What will you do if the mayor of Saint Gillis takes the action and instructs his police to refuse prisoners at the prison gate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u12	Mrs Lambrecht, the fluctuation in the population of the Sint-Gilles prison was primarily due to the reorganisation of the Brussels prisons and, in particular, to the re-destination of the prison in Vorst as a prison. So it was a matter of looking for a mechanism to lead the right convicts from the prison in St. Gillis to the prison in Vorst. At the same time, we have reached a time when the overall population has increased. This is partly due to the classical economic situation of the population, which is higher or lower depending on the period of the year. Apart from that, however, the influx of accused persons has also increased. Of course, this has led to a search for ways to spread prisoners too heavily overcrowded prisons over prisons that could receive additional prisoners. The rate of increase in the population did not allow us to depopulate Saint Gillis' prison at the same pace. The necessary transfer decisions have now been taken and are being implemented. Additional capacity will be available in existing facilities in the coming weeks and months. After the summer, the first internees will also be included in the Forensic Psychiatric Centre of Antwerp and additional places for internees in healthcare institutions will be realized in collaboration with my colleague responsible for Health. All this will thus reduce the pressure on prison capacity and help to ensure that the border of 850 prisoners in Saint Gillis prison can be guarded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for this somewhat reassuring reply. We are left with the question of what will happen if the police refuse the prisoners at the prison gate. Will you perform? Where are the inmates supposed to go?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u14	Mr President, Minister, as a result of the troubles in Tongeren, where a number of judicial staff have been sick by fungi in the paper piles, we know that in the archives of courts there are more dangers lurking around the corner than explosive devices, as we did here in Brussels a while ago. Given the state of various court buildings and archives, it is only a question of whether the situation in Tongeren, which according to statements on Radio 1 is now under control, is an exception to the rule. Mr Minister, since, in our opinion, courthouses should be a healthy place of work, my question is what measures you are taking or can take to prevent similar problems in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, first and foremost, a clear distinction must be made between living and dead records. The living archive shall be kept at the Registry or at the Secretariat of jurisdiction. It is stored in spaces designed as desk space. Consequently, problems of mould formation rarely or never occur in such spaces. The dead archive is usually stored in cellars or in attics of courthouses. Unfortunately, cellars often form humid spaces without sufficient air circulation which can create conditions that are beneficial for fungus formation. When such problems arise, the department contacts the fellow directors of the Regie with a view to addressing the root cause, as this service is responsible for managing the government buildings. In addition, the Justice Department itself is responsible for, where appropriate, thorough scientific research into the type of fungus and the nature of the contamination, as well as for the temporary collection of the contaminated files in enclosed premises as a temporary and protective measure. Justice also provides information sessions for staff by the internal prevention and protection service and the occupational physician. Justice shall also ensure the provision of the necessary personal protective equipment for the staff. Finally, the Justice Department is responsible for the restoration of records by the best appropriate method after prospecting for the possible treatment methods. Since the judicial organisation has a particularly large number of kilometres of archive, an initiative has also been taken to evaluate and review the retention periods that it requires. A proposal to revise these retention periods has therefore been drawn up in cooperation with the General National Archives. Its validation will take place very soon. This review will in the relatively short term reduce the need for storage for dead records and thereby reduce the risk of mould formation and the associated health risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u16	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u17	Mr Minister, recently a Brussels judge forbade the Belgian State in interim proceedings to hold a French-speaking prisoner longer in Bruges prison. This would be contrary to language law. The Belgian State was sentenced to pay a penalty payment per day that the French-speaking prisoner was still held in Bruges. Belgium has 34 prisons, 16 in Flanders, 16 in Wallonia and 2 in Brussels. Prison staff are recruited either in the Dutch language or in the French language. I have a few questions about that. What are the consequences of this ruling, both for the detainees and for the prison staff? How is the correct application of language legislation in Belgian prisons guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u18	I am not going to repeat the problem of the French-speaking person who should be transferred from Bruges to a French-speaking prison on penalty of paying EUR 300 a day. If a detainee does not understand the language of the region where the prison is located, it is for me that the director of the prison has so far relied on any reasonable translation so that he can at least understand the information and content provided to him. In this way we can rely on everything: the intervention of a staff member, external persons, members of the embassy, etc. If there are no alternatives and the intervention of an interpreter is necessary, the costs will be at the expense of the prison system. I have a few questions about that. Does this rule conflict with language legislation? Does the current language regime applicable to the penitentiary establishments allow the staff of those institutions to use a language other than the language of the language area? What are the consequences of this verdict? Was this judgment followed up in concrete terms at first? What are its consequences for the housing of foreign speakers in penitentiary establishments in the Dutch or French language area in general? Does this affect the organization of the prison system? What are the consequences for the specialised sections? Apparently there is no prison in French-speaking Belgium with a level of security similar to that of Bruges. What are the concrete consequences of this judgment for them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to stress that the decision of the President-in-Office of the Court of Justice did not prohibit the further detention of French-speaking prisoners in Bruges, let alone prohibit the detention of French-speaking prisoners in Flemish prisons. The court has ruled in an individual case and its ruling is based on that. The case concerned the detention regime of the person concerned, in particular his security regime and the application of the language law to the procedure for imposing those security measures. The judge considers prisons to be the execution services of the FPS Justice, whose operation extends to the entire territory because they can receive detainees from the whole country. It was not enough, therefore, for the Director-General's decision to renew the regime to the prisoner in French to be delivered, but the judge held that, in accordance with language law, the preceding acts should have been taken in French in order to exercise adequately the rights of the prisoner's defence. The result of this ruling is that prisons must be able to deal with the records of the detainees in each of the three national national languages. At the moment, the Bruges prison is the only prison with a Department of Individual Special Security. There was also a similar department in Lantin until a few years ago, but it was destroyed and was not reopened. No appeal was brought against this decision, since it is in line with a previous judgment of the Council of State and a previous decision of a President of a Court of First Instance. The decision does not affect the detainees or the staff. I will, of course, instruct the administration to draw up the necessary guidelines to ensure that language legislation is applied in similar situations in accordance with the provisions of the judgment. The Directorate General EPI has no knowledge of complaints from the Brussels prison. The composition of the staff in this prison was as follows on 1 March 2017: 622 staff members belong to the French language role and 316 to the Dutch language role.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u20	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u21	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u22	Mr President, Minister, it has recently been reported that the Ostend peace court against whom a complaint has been made must appear before the criminal court, together with a number of composers. To that end, a special procedure was followed, in particular the privilege of jurisdiction laid down in Articles 479 et seq. of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This procedure shall be followed for the trial of magistrates, judges and prosecutors and senior officials. Essentially, it means that holders of the privilege of jurisdiction cannot be sued by a civil party, nor can they be subpoenaed directly to the criminal court by an injured party. After all, it is only the Attorney General who can decide to bring the criminal proceedings against a holder of the privilege of jurisdiction. The system of precedence of jurisdiction encounters a great deal of criticism. On the one hand, because it exudes at least a hint of literal privilege or foreclosure and thus calls into question the confidence in the objective treatment of those concerned, on the other hand because the procedure itself is different, since the trial takes place immediately before the court of appeal. In that respect, therefore, the privilege is not a privilege at all, because no appeal against the decision is possible. On 27 March 2015, the Supreme Court of Justice published an opinion on the privilege of jurisdiction following its application in the Jonathan Jacob case. The Supreme Court concluded that the current regime was not adapted to the present reality and evolution of our society and justice. It was also compared with abroad and it was found that the Belgian system has been overtaken. The judgment of 20 October 2016 of the Constitutional Court also shows that the procedure of privilege of jurisdiction can give rise to a variety of procedural problems. More fundamentally, one has to ask whether it is still justified to try magistrates and senior officials and their accomplices differently from ordinary citizens. In many countries, magistrates are tried in the same way as everyone else, but possibly in another jurisdiction, so that they are not judged by one's own colleagues. It's hard to see why that wouldn't be possible. In the meantime, by judgment of 15 December 2016 of the Court of Appeal in Ghent, four new questions were referred to the Constitutional Court concerning the prosecution of lower magistrates and their co-actors or accomplices. I am surprised, Minister, that in view of the above, you have not yet taken the initiative to amend the law. Are you considering a change of law? If so, in what sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, in connection with the Jonathan Jacob case, the Supreme Court of Justice has indeed drawn up a report, which includes a number of recommendations on the legal regime of jurisdiction. The Supreme Court of Justice did indeed assess this system as obsolete and proposes to provide for a system of prosecution, investigation and trial of magistrates in line with common law procedures. According to the Supreme Court, it is necessary to ensure that the initiation of criminal proceedings remains exclusive of the powers of the public prosecutor and that prosecution, investigation and trial are carried out in a judicial district other than that in which the accused magistrate operates. It is also recommended to limit the list of persons enjoying the privilege of jurisdiction. I think it would be useful to submit these recommendations to the expert committee which I was responsible for preparing a new code of criminal procedure. It is a matter which must be dealt with with with caution and in which caution must be put above action. Moreover, I would point out that the current system of magistrates has both advantages and disadvantages and does not lead to impunity. I therefore share your view that the privilege of jurisdiction is not always a privilege for the person concerned. The proposals of our experts will be submitted, if necessary, to the new Supreme Court of Justice, the College of Attorneys General, the College of the Courts and Courts and the Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u24	Minister, if I understand correctly, there is no immediate change in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u25	Mr President, I have just come from a room in which it is very warm and noisy. I feel like I'm in a hospital here, just because of the silence and tranquility that prevails here. Mr. Secretary, I'm from Roeselare. In the AZ Delta in my city, parents can report the birth of their baby to the maternity ward since January 2017. They no longer have to go to City Hall for that. Parents must indicate the birth within 15 days of birth in the city or municipality where the child was born. Roeselare is apparently the first city in West Flanders where the declaration is now possible in the maternity ward. To this end, a civil servant comes to the maternity ward three mornings a week. I have selected and discovered that there is also a similar arrangement in Antwerp, in Genk and in other cities. That's an innovation, which is good. In the Netherlands, where I have been a few times for professional reasons, there is also the possibility that parents can digitally report the birth of their child from the hospital or elsewhere. The birth declaration forms are then forwarded to the district of Civic Affairs of the municipality. If the completed declaration form has been sent before a certain time, the civil servant will then come to the hospital to sign the birth certificate. In Belgium a digital signature is probably not yet possible. In view of the risks to cybersecurity, in particular risks of hacking and computer fraud, digitalisation should be handled very carefully when it comes to registering births and registrations in the National Register. Firstly, are there any other cities or municipalities other than Roeselare, Antwerp and Genk where the said scheme applies? Which cities or municipalities are these? Secondly, can we go any further? Is there any intention or plan for Belgium to register births from home or from the hospital digitally? Are the main features of this already known? Is that a state of affairs yet? Has it already been decided whether a pilot set-up with one or more municipal authorities will take place for this purpose? How will you secure the system against fraud or hacking?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u26	Mr Vermeulen, the possibility of a birth declaration in a maternity clinic was framed in the letter of 3 November 2008 concerning the declaration of birth in such clinics. A survey of various associations of civil society officials shows that at present, in different cities and municipalities, civil society officials go to the maternity clinic several times a week for a birth certificate on the spot. This is the case for all Antwerp materials, for Brasschaat, Genk, Ghent, Roeselare, Turnhout, all Brussels materials, Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe and Etterbeek. In a number of other cities and municipalities the possibility of birth returns in the maternity clinic is investigated. In Wallonia, there is not yet a single municipality that provides for the possibility. In the Netherlands, it is possible in some municipalities to make the birth declaration completely digitally from the hospital. For the rest, it is possible in the Netherlands, for example, to make a birth certificate online, but the parents still have to sign the birth certificate within three days of birth. In Belgium, the project "Modernisation and computerisation of civil status" is currently under way, the aim of which is to integrate all the municipal registers of civil status and those of Belgian consular posts into a single central database, the Databank Acten Civile Stand. The DABS shall be used for the central storage, preservation and management of electronic civil status documents in such a way that it can be relied upon when required by law or international law, or where there is a dispute as to certain information contained in the National Register. This project lays the foundations for the possibility of an electronic declaration at a later stage. On 9 December 2016, the Council of Ministers adopted the general guidelines, the objectives, the division of tasks and the timetable for the modernisation and computerisation of civil status. My administration is currently preparing a draft law on this subject, which involves cooperation with the other actors involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your very full answer, which also gives me satisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u28	Joined Questions No 17762 by Mr Olivier Maingain and No 17845 by Mr Georges Dallemagne are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u29	Mr President, Mr Minister, following the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the attacks in Brussels, he confirmed that the Islamic and Cultural Centre of Belgium (CICB), which manages the Great Mosque of the Fifty-year anniversary, receives its budgetary resources - about 1.2 million euros - from the World Islamic League, whose funder is Saudi Arabia and whose conception of Islam is not entirely compatible with some of our democratic values. This information has revived the debate on the introduction of religious financing by States that do not respect human rights or support terrorism. In this particular case, I am not talking about Saudi Arabia, although in a more distant past one can question one another. In April 2016, I tabled a proposal to revise the Constitution in this regard. This information has reinvigorated the debate on the organisation of Muslim worship in Belgium on the model of church factories. It also raises more specific questions, which are as follows. How many places of worship would be financed by a foreign state by religious denomination? By disaggregating by place of worship concerned, what is the basis of this funding? What is the amount reported and/or assumed by your services? Have these amounts evolved and, if so, to what extent and by what period? By disaggregating annually since 2014, how many mosque recognition files have been introduced by the Belgian Muslim Executive? How many have received positive feedback and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u30	Mr. President, Mr. Maingain, depending on the religion and region in which the recognized local religious community is located, it is the responsibility of the municipalities, provinces or regions to monitor and approve the finances of these communities. An authorization from the Minister of Justice is, it is true, provided for donations made to ASBLs by notarial act and exceeding 100 000 euros, in accordance with Article 16 of the Law on ASBLs. Manual donations, bank donations and donations between legal entities pursuing a similar purpose are not covered. I am currently developing rules to extend the annual accounts of NSOs in accordance with the NSO Act so that each NSO must make known what donations and funding they receive and their source. The Belgian Muslim Executive has, as a representative body of the religion approved by the federal authority, submitted applications for the approval of the local religious communities to the Regions. As Minister of Justice, I am seized in these cases to give an opinion on them. Since 2014, 30 mosques have received a positive opinion in this context. You may be aware that, recently, I had an interview with the Secretary General of the World Islamic League, a former Minister of Justice of Saudi Arabia, who promised me to ensure that the Great Mosque practices customs that are in accordance with our European tradition and values, if not to proceed, as it has already done in several countries, to the closure of this mosque. I issued a press release on this six weeks ago. If you would like more detailed answers, we will respond in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u31	Minister, yes, one day we will have to talk in depth about how to finance the cults. I hear there are legislative initiatives in preparation. I am not in favour of the outright abrogation of any form of public authority funding for places of worship, but I believe that it is time to adapt our control mechanisms to realities that are more current than what had been conceived at a time when there was not such a diversity of recognized cults and, above all, not the same international context. I read in the press that you had met the Secretary General of the Islamic League. There would be some sort of underlying agreement, but I do not know what form this agreement or the Secretary-General's commitment is taking to ensure respect for the democratic principles of countries hosting places of worship that the Islamic League is financing. However, I continue to believe that monitoring procedures must be implemented. This will be the subject of a broad debate on which we will certainly come back, either when we look at the bill that you are telling us about, or in other circumstances, following, among other things, the conclusions of the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry on the attacks. Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic639x.u32	Question No 17641 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and question No 17659 by Mr Georges Dallemagne are transformed into written questions. Joined Questions No 17663 by Mrs Annick Lambrecht and No 17865 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu are postponed. Question No 17675 by Mr Stefaan Vercamer is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 17779 and 17817 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke are transformed into written questions. Question No 17843 by Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois is postponed. Questions Nos 17843, 17853, 7854 and 17855 by Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu were also deferred.
