ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic673x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I will just say that I had already tabled a resolution on the issue of prisoners and administrative detentions, but unfortunately it was rejected by the majority. On Monday, 17 April, about 1,500 Palestinian prisoners in Israeli prisons began a collective and unlimited hunger strike. The strike aims to put an end to the numerous abuses by the Israeli prison administration, which would deny prisoners some of their most fundamental rights. I have already been able to draw your attention to this at the end of April. At that time, you replied that you had no contact with either party on this matter. Have you had more since then, except with the Arab League ambassadors? Does Belgium intend to take an official position on this subject, apart from the communiqué following the above-mentioned meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic673x.u2	Mrs Grovonius, my services and I are concerned about the situation of Palestinian prisoners in Israeli prisons, and we are following it closely. They began a hunger strike to protest their conditions of detention. You are aware of our official position on the subject, since I spoke in a statement issued on 17 May, following my meeting with the ambassadors of the Arab countries accredited in Brussels, during which this issue was extensively addressed. Our position is in line with that of the European Union. We call for strict respect for international humanitarian law towards prisoners. These provisions of international law include articles 4 and 76 of the Fourth Geneva Convention on the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War. These articles prohibit, inter alia, the detention of prisoners from an occupied country outside the occupied country. Compliance with the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment is also paramount. I will continue in Dutch for the other aspects. I have also received questions from Members in Dutch. With regard to this treaty, I would like to give you the following. During the discussion of the Israeli report, the Committee against Torture, which monitors compliance with the Convention, expressed concerns about the treatment of the hunger strike of Palestinian prisoners in May 2016 and made a number of recommendations in this regard. I would also point out, because these matters are related, that administrative arrests are measures that must remain exceptional in nature for a limited period of time, taking into account various guarantees such as the right to respect for the rights of the detainee's defence, the right to be informed of the charges being brought and the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time. Belgium did not remain inactive. In addition to my meeting with the ambassadors of the countries of the Arab League, the situation of Palestinian prisoners has been mentioned by my services in the European Union in order to be able to adopt a common position on this subject, which has an ever greater impact than isolated action, especially in a topic like the one we are talking about. A local communiqué of the European Union Heads of Mission in Jerusalem and Ramallah was also issued on 6 May, recalling the European Union's position and expressing its concern about the situation. As far as the "LAW-TRAIN" project is concerned, as I have already had the opportunity to mention, it is a European project in which the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office is involved and therefore falls within the competence of my colleague, the Minister of Justice. To return to the Palestinian prisoners, we will, of course, continue to monitor the situation. Both on the spot through our diplomatic representation and here in Brussels, we will act bilaterally and in consultation with the European authorities. I repeat, we do not have direct consular competence since it is not compatriots who are concerned about this situation, but we have a capacity for political and diplomatic action through our European services and services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic673x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. At the end of this inquiry, we therefore put forward a motion for a recommendation which makes eight requests to the government, namely to plead with the Israeli authorities: - to ensure that they respect the international law of prisoners; - to put an end to all physical violence in their prisons and to the imprisonment of minors; - to guarantee prisoners the right to adequate medical care; - so that they may also enable them to exercise their right to study during their period of imprisonment; - to allow the use of public telephones identical to those of prisoners who are not wired; - to extend visiting rights to representatives of humanitarian organisations; - to put an immediate end to the abuse of the administrative detention system; - and finally that the government pressure the Israeli authorities to put an end to reprisals against the prisoners on hunger strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic673x.u4	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Gwenaëlle Grovonius and MM. Stéphane Crusnière and Dirk Van der Maelen and read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, responsible for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the government - to plead with the Israeli authorities that they respect the international law of prisoners; - plead with the Israeli authorities to put an end to all physical violence in their prisons and to the imprisonment of minors; - plead with the Israeli authorities to guarantee prisoners the right to adequate medical care; - to plead with the Israeli authorities that they allow them to exercise their right to study during their period of imprisonment; To plead with the Israeli authorities to allow them to use public telephones identical to those of detainees who are not wired; - to plead with the Israeli authorities to extend their right of access to representatives of humanitarian organizations; - to plead with the Israeli authorities for an immediate end to the abuse of the administrative detention system; - to put pressure on the Israeli authorities to put an end to reprisals against prisoners on hunger strike." "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs with responsibility for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, calls on the federal government - urge the Israeli authorities to comply with international law on the treatment of detainees; - urge the Israeli authorities to put an end to all forms of physical violence in their prisons and to the imprisonment of minors; - urge the Israeli authorities to grant prisoners the right to proper medical care; - urge the Israeli authorities to grant prisoners the right to study during their imprisonment; - urge the Israeli authorities to allow detainees to use the same public telephones as the prisoners who are not being tapped; - urge the Israeli authorities to extend their right of visit to the representatives of humanitarian organisations; - urge the Israeli authorities to put an immediate end to the abuse of the system of administrative detention; - pressure on the Israeli authorities to put an end to the reprisals against prisoners on hunger strike." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Kattrin Jadin. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kattrin Jadin. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
