ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u1	Mr. Secretary, the U.S. military wants to test bullets that appear to be biodegradable. The current materials used during exercises, according to the Ministry of Defence, take hundreds of years to completely disappear. Some bullets can also rust and so pollute both the ground and the water. With that case in mind, the U.S. military wants to make its training equipment more environmentally friendly. An order has already been issued for biodegradable ammunition, including grenades and bullets for tanks. In addition to biodegradable ammunition, it is also intended to incorporate seeds that can grow into plants. The United States of America is convinced of the practical feasibility by some successful trials by military scientists. Canada and Sweden have also already switched to green tungsten bullets. Research into less polluting ammunition has been going on for 25 years. The United States of America experimented in the past, but unsuccessfully, already with bullets without lead but with tungsten. Canada, Sweden and now the United States of America are calling for less polluting bullets. First of all, are you and the DOD considering switching to greener... ammo? Secondly, has our defense already informed us of the possibilities and the cost of such ammunition? Thirdly, has our defense already contacted Canada, Sweden or the United States about these developments? Finally, do you believe, like me, that we should not be left behind when it comes to improving our sustainability?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u2	Mr Top, Defence is indeed aware of developments in this area and is open to any possibility for the benefit of the environment or in the domain of sustainable development. Although there are mainly contacts with manufacturers within the framework of market projections, Defence continues to follow possible developments in that domain through participation in specialised international fora. These forums are, of course, the subject of contacts and contacts with different partners. The possible acquisition of that type of ammunition will always be linked to the budgetary resources allocated to Defence and will not affect the operational requirements and security requirements for its personnel. I am convinced, like you, Mr Top, that we must not be left behind when it comes to improving our sustainability. Current applications of biodegradable ammunition are currently mainly limited to training ammunition. You mentioned that yourself, by the way. In this context, where possible, we also look at the acquisition of shooting simulators for our various weapon systems. That way we don't have to shoot any more bullets, while one can train. This allows for a significant reduction in ammunition consumption as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased to hear that information has already been obtained on the possibilities. Indeed, such an offer should be considered and even continued with the purchase of simulators, so that ammunition no longer needs to be used for the exercises. I just hope it's not going to be a long-term job. If this fits within the financial framework, I hope that such a switch can be achieved within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u4	Minister, this question dates back to the beginning of February. "The Belgian F-16s have no business in Syria. With the military operation, Belgium is violating Syrian airspace because the international coalition under the leadership of the United States is not allowed to do so," said Syrian President Assad against some Belgian journalists. President Assad also sees no role for the European Union or NATO in the reconstruction of Syria. Our intervention in the fight against Daesh or IS is also aimed at creating conditions for reconstruction in the areas concerned. Our country always, and rightly so, insists on the importance of the 3D approach, whereby several departments, Defence, Diplomacy & Development, will work together to achieve the same end goal. The theoretical concept behind this approach is that a mission can only be successfully completed if the various departments play their part. Our intervention in Syria is currently limited to the defence sector. What opportunities do you see for further involvement of the other departments in the future? Are you prepared to continue this mission if it does not follow a 3D approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u5	Mr Top, Belgium has decided to participate in the fight against Daesh in the framework of the international coalition at the request of and in close cooperation with the Iraqi authorities. The members of the international coalition against Daesh are aware that it is pointless to fight Daesh in Iraq but to leave it untouched in Syria and thus take care of the organization and safe harbor in that country. That is why they are also active in Syria. The international coalition is active not only in the military field, but also in the field of identifying the sources of funding of IS, combating the propaganda machine of this terrorist organisation, punishing and deradicalising the returning or potentially departing Syrian fighters, taking measures to stabilise liberated areas in the short and medium term. For each of these five tasks there is an international working group in which Belgian members are active. These are specialists from the government departments of Home Affairs, Justice, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Defence and the OCAD. They shall ensure, inter alia, that decisions taken applicable in Belgium are operationalised and that there is an exchange of good practice. It is therefore clear that Belgium is already applying a 3D approach to the fight against Daesh in practice, even more broadly, in close consultation between all the departments concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u6	Minister, you have answered the question of whether the 3D approach is being implemented. The answer at the moment is yes. After all, you have listed the five tasks that are currently being carried out. However, I insist that the future should also be looked at. You have just outlined developments in the Committee on Development and Cooperation. We will also have to take forward-looking aftercare, in the sense that we will have to be a partner in the 3D approach, which will be very important, in both Iraq and Syria, and even in the whole region, which may not have to take aftercare on us. If we do not, the remnants of Daesh and other splinter groups will once again be the seeds of another resistance or rebellion in that region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u7	Mr Top, the various departments are contributing to the debate today. The question is always what we should do ourselves and where we can contribute in other ways. I'm doing Defense in the 3D approach. If you have any proposals for other steps that Belgium can take, I would ask you to address this question to those colleagues in the government who are competent to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u8	That's the supplement I wanted to give myself. Your share or the department's share concerns the Department of Defense, but I wanted to ask whether the Department of Defense is convinced of the need for a global approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u9	Minister, the press echoed a planned move of the Earth component of the Belgian army based in Marche-en-Famenne to Heverlee. Clearly, artistic blurry prevails over this project, but according to the information, it would be in line with the Defence 2030 Strategic Plan, recently approved by the government. Under this plan, the Belgian army must have a Special Forces Command (SOCOM) as part of a NATO military cooperation programme. Since the Special Forces Group (SFG) is located in Heverlee, the purpose of this transfer would be to establish the SOCOM. Currently, the Earth component is divided into two major antennas: one in Bourg-Léopold, Flanders, headquarters of the Middle Brigade, and the other in Wallonia, in Marche-en-Famenne, headquarters of the Light Brigade. You will agree with me, Minister, that it is not happy that the military based in Marche will learn this potential move through the press, without being warned in any way, even through their union representatives. This means a total lack of consultation in your head, even if you argue that no formal decision to move from this headquarters has been taken at this stage. On the other hand, I cannot fail to point out that if this decision proved to be effective, it would contribute even more to the disequilibrium of the Belgian army in favour of Flanders. Transferring a unit of command, military capabilities in Flanders to the detriment of a historical balance of territorial distribution of the Earth component is to "flamandise" Defence in a shameful manner. The party that I represent – and I am sure other parties follow us in this way – regrets that your strategic vision of Defence is thus marked by this desire to gradually develop federal jurisdiction of its substance, serving the interests of your linguistic community. Therefore, Minister, can you let me know if you confirm the plan to set up SOCOM and the move of the Light March Brigade headquarters to Heverlee? If so, have any operating times already been set? Is there any immediate agreement with the military and civilian personnel concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u10	Minister, at the meeting of the city council on 6 March last, the Ypres city council proposed a revision of the municipal spatial planning plan. The reason why the plan is only on the council's agenda after four years is, at least according to their information, the future of the barracks. The Ypres city council has been waiting two years for a federal decision on what will happen to the barracks. The competent ships Dominique Dehaene believes that one cannot wait for a signal from above. For this reason, a hypothetical destination is already given to the land on which the barracks stand today. The skin of the bear has already been sold, but until further notice they are speculating with other people's property. The barracks are an important employer in the region. 227 military personnel are at work at the moment. How's your implementation plan for the barracks coming along? The government's delaying behaviour in relation to the implementation plan not only ensures that the future of military personnel is very uncertain, but also that the city authorities are hampered in their tasks. Have you already had contact with the Ypres city administration in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u11	The other two authors are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u12	Madam President, Mrs Caprasse, this is the first time I've met you. I have said several times before the committee that the future of neighbourhoods will take account of the North-South balance, particularly in command structures, but will not be known until the final decision of the government. Any conclusion is therefore premature until the government has reached agreement on the geographical location of Defence. Nevertheless, in accordance with the strategic vision, a Special Operations Command (SOCOM) will be created. It's not the same as a light brigade! If you followed this commission, you would know that it is not the same thing! For obvious reasons of synergy and efficiency, SOCOM will be co-located with the Special Operations Forces (SOF) currently in Heverlee and will remain there. Personnel policy is the responsibility of the Chief of Defence. Mr Top, I have to answer your questions the same way over and over again. As I have repeatedly said in committee, I have the impression that some Members would very much like to close barracks here. Again, it's not my ambition to destroy things, close barracks or make people unhappy. First of all, let me be clear about that. As for your specific reference to the Ypres barracks, I haven't had any contact with the Ypres city council. However, you now state that the Ypres city council wants to close the barracks. If necessary, I will contact any city administration that would be involved in such a file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u13	Minister, I'm sorry I don't come to your committee often, but when I'm questioned by some people, it's my role to be an intermediary. I'm sensitive to all this, being a daughter of an army officer. Thank you for your answers. It is worrying that some people learn through the press that a move could be possible. The human plan calls me first. You say it's the Defence Commander who has to inform the staff, but you're the Supreme Chief of Defence. You have a duty to be very sensitive to this kind of situation. We will wait until the final decision is made before we ask you again what action you will take on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u14	As long as there is no definitive conclusion on the closure or not of certain barracks, questions on this matter will be repeated in committee. Your strategic vision was presented a long time ago. It included a follow-up plan to the implementation plan of the barracks, which is still not available today. You're trying to put words in my mouth again as if I were asking for the closure of barracks. That is not the case at all. However, I would like to give you the following. The city council of Ypres has placed the municipal spatial structure plan on the agenda. That structure plan isn't just about the area where the barracks are located. They also want to work on the rest of Ypres' territory and thus on that part of the land. That is why we have waited a while, and we want to do it now. So you're actually allowing speculation on that land. That's your word against that of the Ypres City Council. You haven't had any contact with the majority of Ypres city council. In the city board of Ypres, I know that there is still a cartel of CD&V and the N-VA. It might be good to talk to those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u15	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the recent incident involving freight freight that should have been transported to Bangui, where a dozen Belgian military personnel are seconded to the EUTM RCA. According to some sources, DHL, which was responsible for transporting the equipment, refused to do so because the budget line had not been released. Minister, do you confirm this incident? If that is the case, can you give me the reasons why the budget line was not made available in time? As a guide, can you tell me what this transport of equipment via a private company cost the Belgian State? If this incident is proven, it seriously undermines the use of privatization of certain functions, which we have already denounced. Can you tell me if this delay in the cargo of equipment has affected the mission in Bangui?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u16	Mr Crusnière, I confirm that mail to the Belgian military deployed within the EUTM RCA could not leave, as originally planned. This incident that I would call, if I may, a "minor" is due to the fact that the Defence did not renew the contract with DHL until after receiving instructions from the SPF Budget issued on January 20th. The contract was therefore being renewed. In the meantime, this file has been handled by the Commitment Controller. The contract was renewed and the mail sent to its destination without any impact on the mission. On the other hand, the Defence uses other means of transport. In order to guarantee logistical supply, it regularly uses EATC in the transport of equipment, as was again the case at the end of January for postal parcels and spare parts destined for Bangui.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. So, if I hear correctly, it was just mail, not merchandise?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u18	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u19	All right, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u20	Madam President, Minister, your government's announcement of a unilateral plan to raise the retirement age of our military continues to raise concerns. This is proof of the unprecedented demonstration on 15 November, the peak of early departures in October and the recent interventions by representatives of the four military unions, who also expressed their fears at their hearing in committee on 15 February. A fourth piece of evidence has just been added: so many members of the military want clarifications that it would appear that certain "Info Pensions" sessions intended for them would be saturated. So these are my first questions, Minister. How do you explain that it seems that all members, despite their legitimate concerns, cannot register for lack of space to receive information as essential as that about the sudden change in their career end? Is this situation widespread in all the "Pension Info" sessions scheduled in the territory? What measures do you intend to take to allow each concerned member to participate, without undue displacement, in this type of information session? This is my second question. As I have just said, last October, the government unilaterally announced its intention to extend the careers of our military. You then met the unions three times and demanded a memorandum for January. They carried out their work and submitted their requests to you in time for the reform of their pension plan. On March 9, the four main military unions were received in Minister Bacquelaine's office and you were also present. According to our information, the responses that the unions have received are, to say the least, unsatisfactory, as the government seems to want to maintain its reform, by sweetening it with some mitigation measures, particularly with regard to penitibility. But it still seems blurry. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Do you always confirm your promise to soften the impact of the reform through the recognition of the tenability of the profession? What is your position on the question of "military specificity"? The CGPM union announces that, even if the trade is recognized as painful, it would have only a few months' impact on the final retirement age: do you confirm or overturn these estimates? Will you support fair transitional measures for all members who are seven years or less from their current retirement date? At the 9 March meeting, you would have announced an additional package of policy decisions: can you give us more details about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u21	Minister, in June 2016, the government supported your proposal for a strategic vision for defence until 2030. It describes how the staff structure will evolve, what capabilities our army will retain and what investments will have to be made within which budget envelope. Over the years, the strategic vision should be translated into implementation files, such as the barracks plan, the sustainability plan, the military hospital audit and the capacity reorientations. Furthermore, in October the government decided to increase the retirement age of the military from 56 to 63 years. A lot of ink has flowed on that. On 15 November last year, 10 000 soldiers argued against these plans, but for the time being you lack a clear answer to the question of how to reconcile the increase in retirement age with your strategic vision. The reduction in the average age from 40 to 34 years is thus under pressure, as are the staff costs and your intentions to outsource and make use of natural redundancies. Firstly, how can the increase in retirement age be reconciled with your strategic vision? Secondly, do you hold on to the rejuvenation of the army to an average of 34 years? Will the cost of raising the retirement age lead to a reduction in the main investment budget? Thirdly, do you intend to adapt your strategic vision to the pension reform? If so, what is the timing? Fourthly, does that depend on the recognition of the military status as a heavy occupation? When do you expect an answer? Fifth, what is the state of play in the other implementation files? Are these on hold, as long as the strategic vision and the pension file are not reconciled?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u22	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Fernandez Fernandez, please be aware that pension information days are held annually for members leaving the pension between July of year X and July of year X+1. In this case, here, from July 2017 to July 2018. The military personnel concerned are invited by name. They have the choice to go or not. For members invited this year, the current pension system applies. These days are organised on five sites – Zeebrugge, Leopoldsburg, Marche, Puisie, in Dutch and French, and Florennes – for two days per site. The influx to these days is not related to pension reform but to the fact that the soldiers in the hump of the age pyramid leave for boarding. Mr De Vriendt, as I have already said to the interplay No. 188 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, who is an active member of the committee, and on oral questions Nos 10857, 14567, 14683, 14695 and 14697 by Mr Sébastian Pirlot, Mr Alain Top, Mr Tim Vandenput, yourself and Mr Yüksel, the government is working on a solution to reconcile the objectives of pension reform and the strategic vision. The budgetary aspect is part of this work. The rejuvenation of Defense has an important positive impact on the operationality of Defense. It is therefore important to achieve maximum rejuvenation. I can also tell you that the entire investment programme will have to be implemented. As I have indicated in my strategic vision, the rejuvenation will happen by increasing recruitment numbers, and by applying the BDL Statute, which provides for shorter careers, to the maximum. We are currently working on both issues. Defence will also focus more on external mobility, including for older professional soldiers. The government is clear about its commitment to both the EUR 200 million in investment and main equipment in this legislature and the EUR 9.2 billion in investment in main equipment for the period 2020-2030. As I have pointed out in my strategic vision, the implications for the defence of decisions on heavy-duty professions will be determined after the government has adopted a general position on the matter, following a proposal from the National Pension Committee. That's not my jurisdiction. Mrs Fernandez, there must be room for negotiation to define transitional provisions to take account of specific situations. These decisions still need to be approved by the government and negotiated with trade union organizations. That is why no communication is yet on the agenda. In the meantime, the implementation of the strategic vision is being continued at both technical and political level. Two weeks ago, we launched the first large file. Soon the other files will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u23	Minister, thank you for saying that I was an active member of your committee. We ask a lot of questions but we have few answers. I did not have an answer to my second question. As far as my first question is concerned, you say that the fact that there are peaks is not due to pension concerns. You say it's the peak of ages. If you knew that there was a peak in the ages and people who were going to the pension, there was a need for more extensive and larger information sessions. You say that things are not yet clear and that negotiations are under way, but information is still circulating. I can therefore understand the concern of the soldiers who are going to take their pension in the coming months. They are more numerous and more worried than usual and this concern would deserve special attention!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for reminding me that I have already asked questions about this myself. However, I would have liked to give you the opportunity to propose a solution here. It's gonna be a shame for next time. I will therefore be submitting a new parliamentary question on this matter in the near future. You say the government is working on a solution. So there's still no white smoke. Our group, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, does not agree with the increase in the retirement age for military workers, because we believe that it is a specific profession and a heavy occupation. Moreover, this is not consistent with some of your other objectives. There is still no solution to that. You want to reduce the average age; you want to control the staff costs and you want to outsource by using natural redundancies. These three intentions conflict with the increase in retirement age. In fact, you say that military is a heavy occupation and that you are waiting for white smoke from the government, the Pensions Department and the National Pension Conference. Of course, you should have waited for that before raising the retirement age of the military. The fact that you have not done so has been a capital error in the file, not only for the military itself, but also for some of your other objectives, which are often justified but conflicted with it. That knot still hasn't untangled in your department.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u25	At the request of Mrs Van Hoof, Question No 5 will be answered as follows: I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of this. Mr Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u26	Minister, I should like to ask you about the renewal of MONUSCO's mandate in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Indeed, on March 30, 2016, the negotiators had reached an agreement for one year. This mandate is therefore coming to an end soon. Taking into account the Saint-Sylvestre Agreement, presidential elections, hopefully, will be scheduled in 2017. With respect for certain principles, MONUSCO could be called upon to provide technical assistance and logistical assistance for the organization and smooth conduct of these presidential elections. Minister, is Belgium participating in the negotiations under the new potential mandate for MONUSCO? Have you raised this point with your colleagues in charge of Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation as part of the 3D strategy? Can you tell me whether your department intends to offer its assistance in order to contribute from a logistical point of view to the United Nations mission in the DRC, within the framework of the organisation of these elections and in accordance, of course, with clear and strict conditions as laid down by the Chamber in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u27	Mr Crusnière, it is a prerogative of the United Nations Security Council alone to extend the mandate of MONUSCO by a resolution. Belgium is therefore not directly involved in the negotiations. This means that I invite you to address my colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, if you would like more details on the possible informal role that Belgian diplomacy could play in the negotiations on this resolution. As you know, diplomacy is not in my skills. Defence logistical support for the elections is not envisaged at this stage, but will be evaluated in a timely manner, if requested by the United Nations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u28	You know, Mr. Minister of Defence, that I also questioned the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I wanted to have your opinion – with your Defence cap – because I think, and I have already said on many occasions, that our country also has a role to play in allowing democratic, transparent and inclusive elections in the DRC. You are telling me that an evaluation will be made if logistical support is requested. We will already see if an agreement can be reached within the Democratic Republic of the Congo at present and then within MONUSCO. Finally, I will come back to you to consider the possible involvement of National Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u29	Minister, I have asked you many times about the future of the Royal Army Museum (RMA). Despite your bill and the creation of the War Heritage lnstitute, the press has echoed numbers of constant declines in attendance, particularly following the end of the free museum decided by the government. Following the passage of your bill by the majority, what initiatives are you going to take to reinvigorate this museum in the short, medium and long term, whose attendance figures are in the dark? Do you intend to reinstate the site for free? In fact, what will be the visible signs of your reforms, especially in terms of the new name in English and the communication on the site of the 50th anniversary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u30	Fernandez Fernandez, as regards the attendance of the MRA, I refer you to the answers given to the written question No 1034 of 27 January 2017 by Georges Dallemagne. There's no provision for free. With respect to measures to reinvigorate the MRA, we have debated the War Heritage Institute's bill and all the answers are there. I repeat that we are going to invest heavily in the MRA.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u31	Minister, I will see the answer to my colleague Dallemagne's question. I hear there won't be a free return. I grant you that, for the rest, we have had a debate, but the questions are sometimes tabled with some delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u32	Madam President, with regard to my question No 17260 on cannons, I am going to be elegant and wish to turn it into a written question because the minister has already answered it extensively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hedebouw's 16962 lapses as he has not notified. Agenda item 10 is a series of merged questions, in which question No. Mrs Jadin's 17244 will be converted into a written question. Since the other applicants have raised question No. Question No 173, by Mr Hedebouw President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 17079 question will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Yüksel's 17150 lapses as he has not informed us. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vandenput (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Debates of the European Parliament 17260 by Mrs Fernandez-Fernandez will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne's 17401 lapses because he hasn't told us anything. Questions Nos 17409, 17411, 17412 and 17413 by Mr Ducarme lapsed. Debates of the European Parliament 17496 by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u34	Madam President, Minister, in Zeebrugge, Elia concluded a deal with the city of Bruges, in which the city of Bruges received EUR 3 million for the green furnishing of the former military site Knaepen, which should in principle first be sold to the city of Bruges. This transfer is made more difficult because the land is heavily contaminated. What is the state of play regarding the soil restoration of the Knaepen military site at Zeebrugge? What is the precise nature of the contamination? Is there a danger to the environment and to human use? When will it be cleaned up and at whose expense can it be carried out? Finally, are there any discussions on the sale of the property by Defense to the city of Bruges?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u35	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, the final report on the soil restoration plan is currently being prepared by an expert and will then be submitted to the OVAM. The pollution consists of mineral oil contained in the pond sludge. There is no risk to the environment, but it is of course advisable to stay away from the pond for the time being, even when it is very hot. The renovation works are planned for 2018 and the costs will be borne by the Defense Department. There have already been contacts between the city of Bruges and the Defense Department in connection with the procedure to be followed to realize the sale. As I explained, we don't sell directly. We transfer it to the Purchase Committee which takes care of the actual sale.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u36	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u37	Minister, the European Council of 15 December 2016 expressed its support for strengthening European defence cooperation. In this context, the European Union wishes to establish a European Defence Fund. This fund would consist of two separate financing structures. On the one hand, there would be a research strand for research into innovative defence technologies. Member States may, inter alia, use funds for research and development of military capabilities, for which the European Commission will allocate EUR 500 million per year from 2020. On the other hand, there would be a capacity line serving as a financial instrument to support the joint development of commonly agreed defence capabilities. This strand should be able to mobilise some EUR 5 billion per year. A coordination council must lead everything in the right direction. National capital contributions to the capacity line and guarantees shall be treated as one-off measures, i.e. deducted from the structural budgetary efforts expected of Member States. I would like an answer to the following questions. What is your view of the European Defence Fund? You have drawn up a strategic vision until 2030. Can we use both funding structures as part of this vision? What information is already available? What criteria will be retained?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u38	The European Defence Fund is being implemented by the European Commission as a contribution to the EU's global strategy for filling EU capacities with the emphasis on the areas where the EU is currently facing a capacity deficit or capacity gap. This would therefore become the predominant criterion for determining the priorities for supporting projects. Moreover, as it is currently stated, it would only be about multinational cooperation programmes. After a first series of meetings with the EU and the Member States, I believe that there are still too many uncertainties about eligibility criteria today, and that is always an important question when it comes to Europe: how the fund will be financed and how it will be used. If the uncertainties are clarified in the course of the following months, some investments under the strategic vision may be included in that framework. Defense is taking part in several conversations. If a possibility were to arise, recourse to that fund could be considered in accordance with the conditions of use. In conclusion, I would like to say that I think it is a great concept, but it is still completely unclear today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that you think it is a great concept, and that is also the starting point of our group, also in view of the strategic vision. The point is to work together at European level and to find links at European level. Capacity shortages must be identified and filled in. You are now saying that there are still too many uncertainties, things that you do not yet know, so you cannot yet decide to go into them. I can follow that reasoning if you mean that further discussions will have to be held in the coming months, in which you are actively involved. In conducting these conversations there are two possibilities. Either you are a follower, listening and waiting for the results, after which you decide to put your cart on it, or we are one of the tractors to help support the European defence strategy. I would therefore urge you, as a small European country, to contribute to the European strategy and to become one of the triggers in the European defence strategy. Hopefully this will become clearer in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic632x.u40	Mr Top, you must not be mistaken about what is true. The fund, which we have just discussed, does not fall within the competence of the Council of Defence Ministers. That is not even discussed in this way. It is simply a possibility of financing; we must think about financing. European decision-making sometimes, as you know, follows strange paths. What may still be flou today can suddenly be reality, and vice versa. We are not just waiting, we are following this carefully. We take part in meetings. However, you should know that the decision will be forced by one of the major countries.
