ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, it was promised that we could have a committee meeting after the agreement. The Prime Minister insisted on coming to Parliament this morning to outline the broad lines of this agreement. Thank you, Prime Minister, for coming to Parliament to explain more about the agreement. The Prime Minister will present a presentation on the basis of a PowerPoint presentation. Each political group may then request the floor in the exchange of views. No time limit has been set, but it would be interesting to have a two-hour exchange of views. After the budget has been tabled, we will also have ample opportunity to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u2	Mr President, in order to be able, as far as possible, to approach our work with a minimum of information, could we have the government's budget table? It seems to me to have understood that this painting was going to be provided to us. Then there are two things: either it is annexed to the presentation which is submitted to us today, or it must be transmitted to us. You will understand that we cannot examine the figures for the 2018 budget if we do not have the list of all the points on revenue and expenditure in a synthetic way, as the Prime Minister did in our previous discussions on the 2017, 2016 and 2015 budgets. I am asking nothing other than what the government has already provided to us in previous fiscal years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u3	Mr. Laaouej, wait for the Prime Minister's detailed briefing. Then, if you have any questions, you can ask them. However, budgetary discussions take place in Parliament in October, November. But the general briefing will give you all the necessary explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ambition of this government is job creation; it is economic recovery; it is innovation; it is investment in a society in which social protection is guaranteed, a society in which it is possible, through sustainable financing, to ensure that there is real social cohesion. I've stated several times that the government's DNA is the cooperative and the relay. In order to achieve results, it is necessary to make clear choices and clear arbitrations. In the first half of the legislative term, we have made many concrete, necessary, courageous decisions for a stronger economy and for social cohesion. In particular, over the last few months, we have seen that we have been able to reap the first fruits of our first decisions. Job creation has increased dramatically compared to previous years. Enterprise creation, investment, exports and confidence in the future are progressing. But for several months now, we in the government have been well aware of the need to give additional impetus to economic, structural and social cohesion reforms and to continue to work intensively towards fiscal consolidation, in order to create the conditions for a situation where small, medium and large enterprises can continue to develop and invest. So I'm going to present you with a PowerPoint, a package of additional economic reforms. In total, these are almost fifty additional socio-economic measures, including significant structural reforms for the future of our country. Secondly, I will draw up the budgetary guidelines. There is a lot of experience in this chamber. It is understood that, as is customary, we will have the opportunity, in the context of budgetary work after the summer, on the proposal of the Minister for Budgets and with the support of the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Social Affairs, to look in detail, line by line, at the budgetary framework that we are going to present at European level. The first important point is the choice of this government for five clusters in the strategy of structural reforms. The first cluster is taxation. The second is competitiveness and employment, the creation of jobs. The third includes investments. The fourth cluster is the modern authority. The fifth and last cluster is social cohesion and the fight against poverty. You will find that, in our coherent approach, we have always opted for both economic efficiency and job creation and justice. Those things go together. We have chosen to systematically analyse these measures in the light of the criterion of economic efficiency, in order to strengthen employment capacities, as well as in the light of a society in which social justice is strengthened. Everyone must be able to feel as much as possible the effects of the decisions that are taken. The first is taxation. As you know, taxation is an instrument for achieving results, an instrument for making choices. A first point in taxation is the tax shift, one of the government's first substantial decisions, which injects between 8 and 9 billion euros into our economic engine for purchasing power and for the competitiveness of companies. This tax shift, which has already produced effects, will continue to develop as part of the decisions that have been taken to continue efforts to improve our situation in terms of wage disadvantage and to further support purchasing power, especially low and medium wages. It is also a tax fairness approach to choose to implement this tax shift. The second measure for purchasing power is a new measure. We will allow up to EUR 500 per month of additional income not taxed, in certain cases: for example, income from recreational work, in specific functions of the non-market sector. We will also extend the measure to services from individual to particular, including a condition of occupancy of at least four fifths time. Of course, these provisions will have to be legally translated before they enter into force. A second important point in support for economic development is the reform of corporate taxation. We are all aware here that in recent years there has been a will in many European countries to reform corporate taxation. However, I note that few European countries have realised this. It is our ambition to implement this reform. That is why we have made a clear decision on a few points. It is a strong signal for the confidence of companies, both small and large. You have the summary table on the entry into force of this reform. It will take place in two phases with a change in the nominal corporate tax rate from 33% to 20% for small and medium-sized enterprises and to 25% for others. Now, here are some principles in the translation of this reform. Firstly, budgetary neutrality. I have to admit, this is not an easy exercise. It means that we will have to carry out continuous monitoring, both in the decision-making process and in the implementation of the legislation and in the context of the parliamentary discussions on it. With regard to the implementation and entry into force of the reform, we must always be vigilant in the coming months and years for this important purpose. In doing so, we have made the choice to use the payback effects of this reform to ensure a sustainable recovery of the budget. Furthermore, fiscal consolidation is an important principle and an important choice, and we have also taken responsibility for this. This principle will have to be introduced from 2020. In the implementation, we will have to define the contours, the modalities more precisely. Discussions on this subject will still be necessary. I am thinking of aid for investment through an increase in the deduction in this perspective for SMEs and large companies. Or, for example, the desire to take into account the employment dimension through certain specific functions in the context of occupational prepayment; the financing, as I have indicated, through a number of reorientations within corporate tax towards a more equitable taxation with limits on deductibility; increases in penalties and the desire to improve the situation of self-employed persons - natural persons - in the context of a process of harmonising certain related rules. An important direction has thus been given to corporate tax. Another important reform is the taxation of savings. In this context, we have also made two choices. First of all, the subscription fee. In this regard, you have understood the direction that has been taken. For persons holding a securities account with an amount exceeding EUR 500 000, this is a contribution of 0.15 %. Pension savings and life insurance products are excluded from this proposal. In the same vein, we decide to reform the rules on taxation of savings accounts. We're bringing this basket back to 940 euros. In view of the development of interest rates, this measure seems to us rational. We are also expanding a new fiscal capacity in the so-called "good father of a family", with an advantage of up to 627 euros that can be allowed for products other than the savings account. The next point in taxation, which is also a very clear choice, is the profit premium for workers. This is a very important point because it will encourage the purchasing power of the people who work and ensure, when the economy gets better and a company makes profits, that the latter can make the choice to redistribute part of these profits in the form of purchasing power in a simpler way – procedures will be simplified – and with taxation more attractive than today. This is a very important signal that is given. The next item is the harmonization of flat-rate professional costs. There will be an opportunity to further detail these measures, not towards harmonization, with a necessary period of entry into force and budget tables which will also be presented as part of the implementation of this measure. Next, flexibility in our labour market. We are convinced that progress must be made here too. We decided to create flexi jobs for the catering sector and we found that this decision had a positive effect. It is our will to look at how we can extend flexi-jobs to pensioners, but also to certain sectors that we have identified. As you know, a procedure has been introduced before the Constitutional Court and will be followed very closely. We will examine the legal consequences of this in view of our desire to extend flexi-jobs to sectors other than those we have already identified. Another clear decision concerns the digital agenda, which we know represents a new challenge for all of us in recent years and offers new opportunities for economic development and for creating jobs in e-commerce. That is why we have decided to adapt the legal framework for night and Sunday work in order to be able to use the asset of our geographical location – at the heart of Europe – and thus to develop such sectors in the hope of greater job creation. I shall now come to the next measure. As far as the contribution threshold for self-employed people is concerned, the aim is to support efforts to ensure that more people decide to create their own jobs and, in many cases, to create others. This measure is part of this dynamic. It is also a question of ensuring that student work between the ages of 16 and 18 is allowed on Sundays. These are signals to encourage work and initiative. In this way, we are continuing the reform of student work that has already begun in recent months. There is another point aimed at trying to support the ability to boost access to employment: after a dialogue was held with the federated entities and the ministers responsible, we considered that an adaptation of the notion of suitable employment might be useful. It is in this spirit that proposals have been validated, with the ambition to bring this reform into force from the year 2018. Another important point for the future of job creation is support for an important sector in our country, especially the construction sector. The construction sector is now the victim of social dumping. We are aware of this and have therefore taken many measures together with Parliament to combat social dumping. This is also the subject of debate at European level. I hope that the next European summit, after the summer, will deliver results. The strong political will exists to take decisions in this area and it should be possible for the federal government to take additional initiatives. That is why we linked the budget envelope to the tax shift. In the tax shift, we had committed an envelope of just over EUR 600 million to support the construction sector by 2020. The decision is to anticipate part of this envelope in 2018 and 2019 to give this ability to encourage and take into account the difficulties in the industry. There are other measures, such as those relating to telecom prices. Details will be given. The minister has already done very important things. It will continue to act on this issue, which is crucial for our competitiveness and economic attractiveness. Finally, in recent months, we have seen that the social partners, after concluding an IPA agreement - which we are pleased to see - have tried to continue consultations on a number of issues, such as the reform of the trial period. We have found that they have not been able to agree on these issues. That is why the government has taken on its responsibilities, giving a number of guidelines on sensitive, difficult issues for which we have wanted, in a balanced way, to make decisions and to bring clarity to economic actors. Thus, the trial period will be transformed into a mechanism under which the notice rules will be adapted. Here too, specific rules for the construction sector will be identified to take account of decisions taken in the past. As far as starter jobs are concerned, I had, some time ago, made a commitment before Parliament to stimulate youth employment with appropriate rules and to guarantee an equivalent net wage, including tax shift effects. We will see to it that this is the case. In this regard, we will technically implement what needs to be done to fulfil this commitment. Acting is also a way for many people to gain initial work experience and then to hope for an indeterminate job. In some areas, acting was not possible. We now allow acting in all sectors by taking into account a number of constraints, including those related to security for certain sectors that were concerned. This is therefore a set of measures that address different themes, but there is always a common point: the strengthening of attractiveness, more economic development, more investment, more innovation, more work, more jobs. This is the common thread for all the measures which, in appearance, sometimes give the impression of having no connection between them. So, there is a clear, strong, very determined link in our eyes between these different measures! You got it. The first cluster, taxation, is an important instrument with a number of important choices: economic efficiency and justice. The second important point is competitiveness and job creation. This brings us to the third major cluster: investment. A few weeks ago, we had the opportunity to discuss this with Parliament. The Investment Pact is becoming more and more a reality and more concrete. In the 2018 budgetary exercise, we have a first list of around €700 million worth of concrete projects on mobility, infrastructure and digital agenda. Our ambition is to continue intensively our efforts to change the reasoning at European level. The aim is also to take more account of the national strategy for investment capacity, as the European Union is trying to do through the Juncker Fund. We are acting on this ground, as you can see. Investing is not just about identifying projects and freeing up resources. This is also the choice to adopt a package of fiscal measures to provide more support for private investment. Let me give you an example. Growing companies, those who aspire to expand their activities, will be stimulated by the tax measures that will have to be taken. With regard to investment, new challenges - such as the challenges of environment and sustainable development, embodied by COP21 and COP22 - cannot be seen as constraints, burdens or barriers, but rather as opportunities and opportunities to strengthen, through mechanisms such as green bonds, our capacity to stimulate projects in this area. Another example of investment is the reform of the clinical trial framework. For clinical trials, we know that, in our country, the health sector plays an important role in innovation, employment and economic dynamism. We believe that we can continue to improve our attractiveness in this area through a more specific strategy that we will develop in more detail. With regard to investment, taxation and competitiveness, we will work to enable public authorities to be in a process of continuous improvement; to encourage continuous modernisation of the way authorities meet the expectations of citizens and businesses; to encourage greater flexibility and agility in the face of changing expectations towards public authorities. This is the meaning of a few measures taken for more modern legislation. For example, under certain conditions, allow easier access to temporary work in the public service or continue the reform undertaken and finalise it within the framework of the Codex. Also, launch a study that will define priority for contractors so that it becomes more reality, with the ambition to take decisions in December 2017 and to examine how to identify a list of authority functions for which status is the necessary choice. We will work on these issues by keeping an eye on maintaining dialogue with representatives of public service unions. But the will is indeed to make progress in these areas. Modern administration, smart mobility, questions of mobility, data and digital agenda, launching innovative ideas in this area to really bring our country into the century that opens before us, is our choice! Modern administration means supporting logistics projects, reforming and supporting customs as a strategic lever, because we have infrastructure that can be further developed to boost employment. That is also the very clear choice we have made. Last but not least in these five clusters: the fifth cluster, social cohesion and the fight against poverty. This is a fundamental point for us, because we consider that economic development is not simply intended to gain personal pleasure in reading macroeconomic figures and reports from international organizations. Our will is that our citizens, in their daily lives, will be able to feel positively the effects of the measures taken. Our will is that all citizens, and first and foremost those who face the most difficulties, can be supported and encouraged, not with slogans, but with decisions. Arbitrations have been made. Action has been taken. I take the example of pensions. One measure concerns the minimum pension for full career, which encourages and rewards work. We are opening new paths for partial pensions. Specific operational decisions are taken on the second pillar for the pension of self-employed and employees, with budgets released. With the reform of the third pension pillar, we allow more free choice for those who want to mobilize. We give more freedom to choose how to organise this pension that concerns us, each and every one of us. We propose that the career unit be abolished and that this reform be linked to that of similar periods. On the question of social cohesion. We have made a very strong choice in the fight against poverty. In the last three years, I have regularly remembered fascinating discussions between the majority and the opposition, as is logical, about the wealth envelope and the financial resources released for greater support to those who need it. We have made the choice, indeed, not only to consolidate the budget envelopes within the framework of this well-being envelope, but to go beyond it by freeing up substantial additional resources in a multi-annual fiscal trajectory. In relation to this, you have observed that there will be EUR 100 million in 2018, EUR 120 million in 2020 and EUR 150 million in 2022, with particular attention not only for people who receive allowances, but also for workers who have low or medium incomes, but who are still close to the poverty line because they have to pay travel costs, childcare costs for children. I am thinking in particular of isolated workers with children for whom special measures are being taken, in particular to support child care efforts. Here too, the tax lever is used for more justice. I now come back to the slide presented earlier on the non-market sector with which the ministers concerned have started a negotiation in which the government decided to grant an envelope of EUR 100 million over four years. Similarly, Committee A, which deals with the public service, will continue negotiations, also in connection with this matter of modernization of the authority that was voted on earlier. The next slide is about well-being at work. We also want to take into account the evolution of a number of topics in society and at work: the question of burn-out, the question of the possibility of disconnection. We're all hostage to our smartphones, our tablets. To open spaces for questioning in relation to this with the social partners, to see how realistic, balanced answers can be provided on these issues, we also believe that this is an extremely important point. Next point is the issue of care for psychologists. It is a reform carried out by the Minister of Health, an extremely important, extremely ambitious reform, in connection with the previous point, of course, in which very operational proposals have been prepared and, above all, budgetary resources have been made available to make the choices made possible. For older workers, we want to make it easier to work longer via parafiscal benefits, with additional costs taken into account. As far as over-indebtedness is concerned, we know that it is a front door to hack people into a very dramatic spiral. We believe that steps must be taken to further prevent this sometimes tragic shift towards great difficulties. We will also take into account the particular situations of a group of the population, for example the MNPP jobseekers for whom we have decided to extend measures pending the introduction of structural reforms to take account of particular situations within the framework of social cohesion. Finally – and this is not a detail – we have decided to recognize the automaticity of certain social rights. This decision will have to be implemented in a certain phase, in order to take account of the necessary administrative and computer adaptations. It is an extremely strong signal to respond to this call for a just society. On the subject of mystery calls, we have opened this debate within the government. We now have the opportunity to conduct inspections within a reasonable, realistic framework, with the intervention of the auditor of the work and with an objectivation within the framework of data mining for example. There are also some additional measures for small CPAS, with special reimbursements for them. There are some measures to support the self-employed, with the question of the month of failure being reformed to improve their social status. We have also taken decisions in the area of food aid. Further measures are being taken on the issue of alternance training to support the integration of young jobseekers into the labour market. We have also made choices and made decisions with regard to the pensions of the carers. Finally, for some time now, we have considered that we need to increase attention for people with disabilities, with a more comprehensive approach. That is why we have tried to draw up a Handicap plan with a package of measures designed to better support and accompany sensitive situations. As far as health homes are concerned, a study will be carried out and we will see what the consequences are. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can see that this package of decisions contains substantial reforms and seemingly more minor measures, but in total coherence around the five clusters aimed at making our economy stronger, boosting activity and encouraging work, rewarding those who work and want to work, supporting those for whom the situation is more difficult. There is therefore both economic development and social cohesion within the framework of the five clusters for which arbitrations are made. I want to be clear. I am aware that this arbitration is substantial. Each member of this government has been given a mandate for the implementation of these decisions. That is a huge job: the decision-making process, the legal road, the financial road. I also know that the devils are in the details from time to time. We will remain vigilant for correct and loyal adjustment and implementation of arbitration. First, structural reforms, this package of structural measures to boost economic activity. And, finally, a budget. We have indeed drawn the contours of the 2018 budget by cutting a number of arbitrations. We will provide you with figures on this subject, but it will of course be after the summer – during the parliamentary debate. After the Budget Department translates these measures into formal documents - as is customary - we will have the opportunity to discuss them in detail. For the time being, I should like to inform you of the broad budgetary guidelines. First of all, our choice was to make a net effort of 0.6% of GDP, or 2.6 billion euros. In addition, an envelope of around 300 million euros has been taken into account to finance, as of 2018, several thematic measures that I have just presented to you. This choice was made in parallel with a consultation with the European authorities at the highest level, with which we will continue a permanent dialogue in the weeks and months to come. After the summer - within the required time - we will send out the budget documents, which will refine the budget measures. We have also opted for the consideration of certain macroeconomic parameters and their effects. In this regard, we have integrated the latest information, while knowing that new information will come to us after the summer. Thus, we will receive the budget of the Planning Office during this period, so that we can adjust and adapt certain macroeconomic criteria that may involve budgetary and financial effects. In addition, we have chosen to correct the monitoring committee's documents, taking into account – as we have always done since the beginning of this legislature – the measures that have been decided and, at times, not yet fully implemented. The objective is to carry out monitoring by identifying what has not yet been fully implemented – either in order to bring these measures into force or to find alternative solutions, so that performance can be identified. In the same way, technical corrections have been made, as is the case each time, to bring us closer to the target we set ourselves for 2018. Finally, after these two years, we have identified new measures amounting to just over EUR 1.1 billion in terms of expenditure and tax revenues – as we do systematically. You will see, on the PowerPoint document that has been given to you, encrypted information regarding the large envelopes that we have developed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the things that we wanted to communicate to you quickly, only a few hours after the decisions were taken. I simply conclude by telling you that we are very determined, because we measure the momentum in which Belgium (and Europe) is located, where an economic recovery capability reappears. It is important to further stimulate and strengthen this hope for the future. Finally, it seems to us that at half the legislature, as we increasingly feel the positive effects of the efforts made and the decisions taken, we believe that we must act so that our citizens can feel in their daily lives the concrete effects of these decisions: less poverty, more purchasing power and more self-determination for their loved ones. These are the cardinal axes in which we chose to define this decision process, this arbitration process. Before concluding, I would like to thank the colleagues in the government and all our advisers who, for weeks and months, have worked very technically on the political side to be able to present you with a package of decisions with a budget component and a large-scale reform component because it is dictated by a great ambition, not for ourselves, but so that tomorrow the country will have more cohesion, hope, optimism and that is the choice we have chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. This is an exchange of views and it is therefore intended that we should exchange views and views. It's 11:00 and I suggest we meet until about 13:00. An exchange of views where each group can speak and say what it has to say. I propose that we proceed according to the size of the groups. First N-VA, then PS, MR, CD&V, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your statement. For most people, it's a vacation. Some can also be seen by their appearance. I think your government has earned a vacation in the next few days and will need them as well. What has been laid down here is a very ambitious plan. That's the way it's supposed to be. It means that after the recess there is a lot of work on the shelf, but that is precisely what I believe is the intention of a good government. The list of measures is long. I would like to highlight a number of points which are very important for our group. We believe in an entrepreneurial society. This is not just a society of entrepreneurs but of enterprising people in different areas. We recognise you in many of the measures you have taken and we believe it is important to encourage and facilitate active participation in the building of society, including in the economic sphere. I refer to the EUR 500 that we can make in the future, the simpler profit participation, the flexibilisation. It is a fact that this flexibilisation will upset a number of certain certainties. In that respect, we will simply have to enter the 21st century, whether we like it or not. Fear is a very bad counselor here. I am therefore very pleased that we are filling in the idea of flexibilisation here in an open way. Otherwise, the price of standstill will be very high. What has pleased us in the package of measures that is being concluded is the tax reform in the broad sense of the word. The tax shift is consistently continued and this is an important signal that had to be given. The results resulting from this are very positive and it would be very bad if we were not able to continue this exercise. The government has now been able to add a number of very important chapters to this. You know that it was an important point for our group that corporate tax could be reformed. It is very good that we have found a strong comparison with all coalition partners, and it is very important for us that this can start immediately. You have shown the tables: we are spreading it over time, but the first important steps, especially for SMEs, the fabric of an important part of our economy, are very essential to us. That must also be shown in the facts and 2018 is the starting point to be missed. In addition to the shift in this budget-neutral exercise, we also see a lot of benefits in cutting down the coffin. That is a very difficult exercise, because we know that our tax system was never invented by a tax engineer on a night when he was very inspired, but has grown over the years. This means that all measures interact. Everyone finds that the koterij is very complicated and knows that pulling away from one dot has a lot of other consequences. So that exercise is complicated, difficult and challenging. In the exercise of corporate tax reform, the important aspect of cutting the cut-off is ambitious, but it is of the utmost importance to us. We have been able to find a second tax shift, a tax shift in the taxation of savings, and we very much support that. As one of the vice prime ministers said, in the shift of this exercise we manage to allow the holders of large securities portfolios to provide a significant relief to the holders of a smaller securities portfolio. This increases the attractiveness of moving into that area. I do not think that economists will contradict you when you point out the current discrimination in the promotion of savings through a savings book which is in itself justifiable, whereas the same exemption is not granted for other forms of investment. That is an anomaly and should have been abolished years ago. The economic logic of eliminating this discrimination by also providing exemptions for people who are a little more creative about their savings is, in fact, only to be recommended. This is a very good decision both from an economic point of view and for reasons of general interest. We also very much appreciate the fact that investors will be able to benefit from it from the first euro. This measure immediately benefits modest investors. Of course, this exercise costs money. Through the subscription fee, space is created and that fits perfectly within the philosophy of the tax shift. This means that certain economically less interesting levies shift to economically better schemes. A group that was not forgotten in your package is that of the self-employed. I am thinking of the second pillar and the month of care, of course of great importance to those involved. For them it is very important that they go from a month of care to a two-week career. These elements make a particularly important difference in very specific cases for self-employed persons who, as a result of bad luck, are likely to be in difficulty quickly. We still have a great deal of work to do on pensions. We know how big the challenge of ageing is. A number of measures have been proposed, such as part-time pensions, but in particular options have been created. From a strictly imposed system, we will increasingly go to a system in which people can compose their own package. That freedom of choice is very close to our heart. The measures taken to modernise government are also very timely, perhaps even a little too late, but it is never too late to take good action. We are convinced that this Minister has been able to get a nice package out of the fire. The whole is complemented by important social components. When we say that we are for enterprising people and an enterprising society, the fact remains that people cannot all be activated in the same way by misfortune, by fate. It is very good that we continue to pay attention to this, because a warm society is the only thing we want to strive for. The reimbursement of the clinical psychologists, for example, I have heard someone from the field of work who can know put it forward as one of the most important measures for years. The importance of this cannot be denied. I am also thinking of raising the social minimums for people at greater risk of poverty. You have actually taken too many measures at once, Prime Minister. This means that many good measures will not receive the attention they deserve. We will make up for this in the course of the year if they are discussed in concrete terms. For example, the automatic allocation of rights will make too few headlines between the tsunami of measures that are now in place. This automatic granting of rights is an extremely important decision for people who will be able to claim it. She was also more than necessary at the present time of data control. If so many proposals for reform are put forward, then there will also be a measure for everyone that affects him or her personally. I hope that people will continue to see the overall picture. The aim of this government and of our group in particular remains the general interest. In certain parts there will be a so-called ease challenged. The alternative is never doing anything. Let us look at the package as a whole, in which everyone will have to make part of the exercise. Criticism is there, as we may soon experience, but sometimes one can summarize the criticism as: one should save less, levy less taxes and reduce the deficit. Anyone who can put this concerted criticism into one sensible measure deserves a political Nobel Prize. I look forward to hearing what we are about to hear, but I do not expect that we will have to award that prize today. Indeed, your budget deficit will not end at 0. But if we can move from 2.7 or 2.8 % at the beginning of this legislature to 0.6 %, then we have made over two thirds of the path. That's not 100 %. I know that, and we too would have liked to have been able to complete that path. But against the background of these other decisions, and especially against the background of the decision not to reinvigorate the tax mill, it remains a very good achievement, Prime Minister. However, I would like to add that it will require a very vigilant effort. It is not enough to put it on paper that we want it to be done. In this respect, we have had some shock during this legislature and the pace has been uneven. If, at the end of the story, we are clearly below 1%, we will remain within European expectations and, in that respect, we will be able to present a sufficiently good report. However, that challenge will be great. You realize that. Our group will also continue to be critical of the effective implementation of all the measures that need to be taken. I'm rounding up. The project is ambitious. Over the last few weeks and months there has sometimes been a fear that we would have ended up in a government of current affairs. Prime Minister, as of today, you are running a government of tough business. We have implemented very important reforms in the first half of the legislative term. Halfway one always gets a kind of metal fatigue, a search for a second breath. That is the case with every sport. This breakdown in itself is not so important in the totality of the exercise. The fact that you have found that second breath more than deserves our appreciation. Our group wants to support this path of change, which will now clearly become the hallmark of this legislature. It will be hard work, but I believe that the population expects it and that it will reap the benefits of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u7	Mr President, to be honest, I am a little surprised at the way things are organised. More details were announced on the basis of a budget table, but all I saw at the end of the presentation were three or four slides with some general and incomplete figures. Prime Minister, we were given an overview of the measures, a bit of a replay of your press conference. However, you must find EUR 2.9 billion in 2018 including EUR 1.8 billion in technical corrections, adjusted growth forecasts, EUR 500 million in social savings, etc. We want to know whether the budgetary picture, the sum sum, is correct. Do you actually come up with that 2.9 billion euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u8	Mr De Vriendt, you will have the floor later. We have agreed that each group will have the opportunity to make its comments and ask questions and then evaluate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u9	Mr. Chairman, if I may...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u10	No, Mr De Vriendt, this committee is always working in an orderly manner. We're not gonna destabilize things. It has already been said that the budgetary picture will be discussed in this committee in October and November. I hope you will be there for those two months. All the information will come.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u11	Mr President, in this way we cannot debate things properly if we do not know whether the picture is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u12	Then you should go on vacation. We work that way. Mr Laaouej, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u13	Mr President, I deplore the turn of our debates and the fact that Mr. Van Biesen cannot help making unpleasant remarks. I understand our colleague. We must imagine that some journalists asked us to send them the budget tables because, they told us, the Prime Minister had committed himself to passing on the tables today, in the course of our work. You can imagine the situation we find ourselves in today, since we expected to have the paintings. I'd like no one to be frustrated today. A favourable wind allowed me to take possession of the budget table. I would like to make it available to my colleagues. We'll make copies of it. Of course, I have to give it back quickly - I need it for my presentation. I'll go through it quickly and then pass it on to you. Why is this painting interesting? It makes it easier to understand the budgetary framework adopted by the government. There is no secret with this budget table. It is the same picture that is given to us in each of our plenary debates. I do not understand the reason for this retention of information. It is easier for us to intervene on the basis of this picture because we see mechanics. We see the pattern. Before I discuss this, I will point out what seems to me to be one of the biggest weaknesses of what has just been presented to us, namely the reform of corporate tax. You have communicated extensively on corporate tax reform. You make it a battlehorse. I can understand. But at the same time, we are in a state of blur. In fact, the press is not mistaken. A journalist who follows these subjects explained that he had tried to take possession of certain information but that the employees of the Minister of Finance were not willing to inform him. You're going to start an important reform by 2018. Texts must be submitted at the beginning of the year. If you want the reform to come into effect on January 1, 2018, it is necessary that in October or November, we already have a bill in Parliament that will reform. You're going to tell me: it's not complicated, we're lowering the rates. Indeed! But which, at the same time, explains how budgetary neutrality is achieved since you are committed to it. It's an exercise that's not impossible. In 2002 - Mr Reynders is in front of me - there was a very important corporate tax reform which was already reducing the facial rate of corporate tax and which, in fact, proved to be neutral in the budget, because at the same time that the rate was being reduced, we were explaining how we were going to achieve budgetary neutrality. Moreover, for history, there has even been a budgetary overcompensation. There was more return with the compensatory measures than with the decrease in the facial rate! Why do I insist on this? If you go from 34 - I say 34 and not 33 - to 25% by taking over the methodology of the Higher Finance Council, that makes you at least four billion euros to find! As far as the 20% rate for SMEs is concerned, in my opinion this is not going to be the most expensive. But if you go from 34 to 25 per cent, you have to find four billion euros. If you are not able, in the next few months, to tell us how you are going to find four billion, that means that you are going to worsen the budget deficit, which you are not filling since you are postponing the balance beyond 2019. Today, we know that. So you're gonna tell me about the return effect. Yes, you can bet on a bit of a return effect but we have just been told that the return effect will be used to fill the deficit. Obviously we cannot, I would say, draw a double dividend from these return effects. Either they make it possible to fill the deficit or they make it possible to finance the reform of corporate tax. However, the deficit remains to be filled. You can't do both things at the same time. I come back to the subject: four billion. How are you going to find four billion when you are already unable to absorb the structural deficit? Again, we are trying to do with the documents we have. I have before us the notifications of your Thematic Council of Ministers containing a list of measures that I have examined. When you refer to the inventory of tax expenditures and other elements that make up the general corporate tax system, that's not what you're going to find four billion! We see measures that go a little in all directions! Apparently, you could work a little on capital gains on corporate tax. That's what we read here. You may wish to review the rules that allow you to have or not access to the reduced rate with the minimum remuneration. You'd be working, as we read, a little on the car deduction costs. We're talking about the secret commissions again. That's amazing! At the beginning of the legislature, you reduced the taxation of secret commissions! Here we talk about it again. But, I repeat, it is not with this that you will find four billion euros! Besides, you're going to have to look a long way since - and unfortunately there our figures date back to 2014 and these are the only figures available on the FPS Budget website - at the level of real corporate tax expenditures, you have a volume of one and a half billion. With regard to the general tax system, which leads to a reduction in corporate income tax revenues, you had in 2014 - and with a coefficient - a volume of 15 billion. What are we talking about here? Will you have the courage to work on exempting capital gains from corporate tax? To review the deductible dividend plan? To impose a minimum corporate tax? As far as notional interests are concerned, do not expect much. The economic situation is such that the OLO rate is so low that it costs almost nothing. We remember the homicidal debates that took place in the House when the Minister of Finance was a little bothered by saying that it was unpayable. I have always paid attention to the figures personally, knowing that the economic situation can change and that corporate income is very related to them. There is a dynamic of the base and the tax base that is difficult to control. This means that the commitment you are making today, and that you will have to realize within a few months - you are expected - must be able to translate into specific measures in their performance. Otherwise, again you will be in the big speeches and, once again, in default vis-à-vis public opinion. However, with regard to the 20% rate for SMEs, this is a good measure for our group. If it could be implemented, we would welcome it. So I'm sending you a warning. We will consider, measure by measure, how you will finance your corporate tax reform. This is all the more important as you choose to postpone the balance. We understand that. The policy that you have initiated is essentially the support of the offer, with measures that have cost the state budget and whose effects you now inherit. We are thinking of reductions in social contributions, tax shift - desirable because it targeted low and medium incomes. As early as 2015, the National Bank indicated that this policy was not funded. So the corporate tax reform should not repeat the same mistake, when you tell us today that you are unable to absorb the deficit. We let him go a little while, once again, asking for sacrifices from the population. We see this in your budget: you will, again, make savings in social security. You're going to raise taxes again: more than five hundred million! But that's only what's displayed. There is also, of course, everything hidden behind the technical corrections. Obviously, you will also draw on public services, as evidenced by the term "under-use". We could review a whole range of other measures. In short, not only do you not manage to absorb the deficit, but you also persist in your austerity policy, which demands sacrifices from the population. You have your mantra left, Prime Minister: "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" Instead, try to say: "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" Indeed, we see that you prefer to take refuge behind the above-mentioned expression, which hides your policy of generalized precarisation of employment. To paraphrase the title of a famous novel by Houellebecq, the Extension of the field of struggle becomes for you the Extension of the field of precariousness. This is really very worrying and it does not in the end augur well. Then you are developing a strategy for the European Union. Maybe you'll let us know the content of your conversations with Mr. Moscovici. Basically, you're going to let the deficit go; but, in the debt field, you're going to try to show that Belgium remains a good student. We'll see if you can absorb the public debt. It is true that interest rates are so favourable that you are rather helped. Good! However, it is then that we question the reasons for the sale of Belfius. Indeed, what are you going to do with the proceeds of capital generated by the sale of this group? Will you use it - as we have already discussed - to finance your investment plan? Why not? Or are you going to use the possible €2 billion to reduce the debt and tell the European Commission that we are good students? Go and tell them: "Don't look too much at our public finances, for we can't get rid of the deficit, which continues to grow. Our policy does not produce the expected returns. On the other hand, we have reduced the debt due to the resale of Belfius"? That being said, I draw your attention to the fact that this should not be a bad deal. We have already discussed this with the Minister of Finance. According to today's press, Belfius is announcing increasing dividends as soon as next year. This means that selling a share of this bank will cause a decline in current dividend revenues. In other words, in the long term, this can only increase the deficit. Above all, at the time of the stock exchange introduction, I imagine that you will be well advised and that you will have to opt for a discount. Some will recommend you, in order to avoid this possibility, to sell more Belfius shares. I hope that you will not fall into this trap, because a short-term calculation that brings you back could, tomorrow, prove disastrous in terms of the loss of revenue of a well-functioning public enterprise. In addition, we would like to understand what you are doing with Arco. You owe the truth to this Parliament on the Arco file! What's the deal? According to the press, part of the solution will find its source in Belfius. How? We don't know. Is it true or is it not true? If that is not true, the debate is closed! If that's true, tell us how you're going to do it! We can have empathy for Arco's co-operators, but Belfius is the bank of all Belgians. It's a public bank. It's the community. This would mean that what we are going to transfer or take to Belfius is a cost borne by the entire population to compensate a group of the population. This is a real problem in terms of principles, and it must be understood. Take advantage of our exchange today to tell us what you're going to do with Arco! One member of your government once explained to us that, in his opinion, finding a legal solution compatible with constitutional principles, compatible with European rules – essentially primary law – was impossible. Have you found the miracle solution today? I imagine you will notify Europe of the solution you are considering for Arco. I think we have the right, as modest representatives of the Nation, to know how you will compensate the co-operators by taking on the whole community. For the rest, we see that at the time of this budget, you decide to select a macroeconomic parameter that is most favourable to you: the rate of growth. You do not take that of the National Bank, you do not take that of the Office of the Plan, you take that of the European Commission, 1.7%. This 0.1% improves the situation a little. You're sending us back in September to see if there's anything to re-evaluate. I would like to know whether, in such an uncertain context, it would not have been more prudent to retain the growth rate indicated to you by the two Belgian institutions: the Planning Office, which prepares the budget, and the National Bank, which makes macroeconomic and macro-budgetary assessments of the policies you are conducting. You take the Commission's figure. It is a choice, and no one will question, from this point of view, the choice you make. But this choice has consequences. It creates a space of budgetary uncertainty that you may need to return to. All the more so since I often have an exchange with Mrs Wilmès about the remarks made by the European Commission, which she does not take into account. In most cases, the European Commission has adopted a structural deficit trend which is less advantageous than what the Monitoring Committee and other bodies or institutions, for example, have retained. Similarly, the European Commission regularly challenges the assessment of the performance of the new measures. I am talking to Mrs Wilmès about this and she notes that the Commission sometimes errs in its forecasts. Mrs Wilmès, I have the report in front of me. It's not a reproach and the facts make you right. This is not confirmed by the facts at the time of the accounts. At the same time, it cannot be said sometimes that the Commission is right and sometimes that it is wrong. We must remain consistent: either it is generally right and we follow its figures – the rate of growth for example – or we admit that it can be wrong and we fall back on the conservative forecasts of the National Bank and the Office of the Plan which, moreover, agree. If the National Bank and the Plan Office are expected to agree, it is better to take this figure, which seems to be the most proven. You make a choice that creates uncertainty. We'll see about the autopsy. We already see that there are 1,128 billion technical corrections! If this is how we make a budget, typing a billion technical corrections... You give the details but from this detail, we cannot draw much: transfer pricing, the fight against fraud. What is the situation in practice? Has a concrete measure been adopted which would make it possible to make a technical correction of one hundred million? Do you have any information we do not have? It is not a question of telling us that there are two pending files that will bring back a hundred million! We are talking about a structural trajectory that counts for one hundred million every year. We will not have the information today, we will not deceive ourselves. One can continue this way on the under-utilization of the SPF or the standard of health care (€290 million). We know music, you tell us that it is the real needs that must be considered, but we know very well that this will result in savings. In short, we can doubt the validity of some figures in these technical corrections (1.128 billion to reduce your effort). I note that you are expecting an increase in the dividends of Belfius and Paribas (€200 million). Two hundred million more than we already have. It's not nothing. At some point, if you sell Belfius, those two hundred million, you may not have them anymore. Attention, too, to the forecasts. Secondly, we get to the heart of the matter: new expenditure, new measures. In this regard, you will still allow me to say – and here I am addressing a whole series of interlocutors who have often taught the lesson – that you are going to increase taxes by 529 million more. There's a little bit of everything. Excise is so easy to type on households, especially with this soda tax; moreover, it would be interesting to know what the Minister of Health thinks. Is it not better to develop a real prevention plan rather than to target families? Finally, we saw it with the VAT on electricity, the excise duty on diesel, obviously, you're not interested. It's great, it's free choice! People actually have the free choice to warm up or light up. The Cayman tax, you're adding 50 million. Let's go! Everyone doubts the current performance of the 460 but you add 50 million. And a whole series of other measures. To arrive at what today seems to be something that we don't know too much if you have adopted it by membership or by spite: it is the famous tax on securities accounts: 254 million returns. It's not nothing. It decreases after, 193 million. But how many people are targeted? For your estimate, have you had the distribution – this is very important information – of securities accounts? Do you have a fairly faithful picture of who owns what in terms of titles? For the rest, draw your attention to the fact that if you do not accompany this with a whole series of measures that avoid loopholes, this measure will obviously melt like snow in the sun. I do not comment on the fact that, after the big announcements, such as the CD&V, on fairer taxation, added value, etc., it is still not glorious! Let's say it. I mean, there's Arco. So maybe the CD&V got its steak, we'll see later. That's it, dear President, I won't be longer at this point. There would still be a lot to say in fact. We are very concerned about the approach to administration. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute, as the Prime Minister has done, to the collaborators of the cabinets, all parties involved, who are being asked for a great deal of sacrifice. So, we're a little worried. The acting in the public service appears. I hope that we are not going to implement some theories that would also favour work in the public service. This could be disastrous, too, because the quality of work in government services also depends on working conditions. I hope you don't lose sight of him. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u14	Mr President, when I hear speeches at this outrageous point, I am delighted that the holidays are coming. I'm going to share the work with my friend Mr. David Clarinval. I recall Mr Laaouej's speeches that, when the government's performance is good, it is because of the international situation; however, when the international situation is bad, the fault lies with the government. Yes, you say it regularly. I'm going through the circus of the budget table that you're asking for by holding it in hand. It's the same every year. Each time you have the picture, which clearly indicates that your party still has a lot of ramifications in the state, as in the Walloon Region. I would like to say that the mark of this government is precisely the collective and complementary intelligence. It is clear that this work is the result of a fusion of currents and a balance of choices. It's really fundamental. The Prime Minister said this: for months, collaborators have been working on the subject! We feel that it is a meticulous work, which goes in every detail and tries to get everything that is possible to improve the situation. We feel that it is a work of substance, which consolidates from month to month and we feel that the results continue to arrive. There is an impact and a willingness to develop the activity, to develop the initiative, to encourage the work. It's really the mark of this investment. You play the phrase "jobs, jobs, jobs." But there are results, which we see all the time! It can be said that this is the international context. Of course, if the international context improves things, there is also the substantive work that is being done here. Investment promotion is a flagship measure, with a temporary incentive of 8 to 20%. Of course, it's exceptional. This will have a significant impact on SMEs. This is one of the flagship measures that we are really interested in the MR, as well as the encouragement of companies with the reduction of the facial rate. The PS is happy about it. I'm glad the PS rejoices. We do. We always do what we announce. It is true that it sometimes takes time, but we do. Attention to social cohesion, the fight against poverty and the non-market sector is very important to us. These are spheres of society for which we are often accused of not being active. That's not true. It is essential to pay particular attention to the middle class, which lies between poverty and wealth and which is indeed experiencing increasing difficulties. The implementation and the desire to apply tax shift absolutely is exactly what it takes to strengthen the middle class. So, this policy, it suits us perfectly even if we postpone the deadlines. For years, we have been criticized for being rigorous. Opposition parties are critical of Europe's desire to encourage states to desist and balance budgets. On the other hand, we are criticized when we soften the trajectory somewhat, precisely to avoid any slowing down of the effects of the measures put in place. Frankly, I won't be long. David Clarinval will return to a few specific points relating to the social impact of the measures, the health impact and the impact at the level of social cohesion. He will insist on some points. Personally, I would say that the MR is very pleased to see the outcome of this work, which consolidates from month to month, year to year with a real desire for social and fiscal justice. So, Prime Minister, I encourage you to continue to do so. We will, of course, be here in September to work on all the proposed measures. We will, of course, ensure that they are. Against winds and tides, we will support the government's action in strengthening its activities in our country!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, when you started working with your team at the end of 2014, you said you would focus on economic growth and more employment and link it to social progress. Those were the two anchor points of your policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this team has already taken many measures in recent years. Some fellow Members will disagree with some of the measures, but if you look closely at the current figures, you will find that unemployment has fallen by more than 2%, that tens of thousands of jobs have been added. Yes, I am the first to admit that, of course, we are making use of the good international economic situation, but what is wrong with that? However, certain targeted measures, including tax-shift measures, have generated tens of thousands of jobs. That claim does not come from the study service of any majority party, but from the National Bank. So the policy has also created additional jobs. The policy has also provided additional benefits for those who have the most difficulty, such as the wage-earners or those who receive a minimum pension. According to the National Bank, Belgians' disposable income has increased in recent years. When the government presented its agreement yesterday, I heard some fellow Members say that this majority is not doing enough for the people who are struggling. Colleagues, look at the figures for 2018, 2019 and 2020, not our figures, but those of, among other things, the Monitoring Committee. Only in the area of taxation can we see a reduction in wage costs, an increase in purchasing power through a reduction in income taxes and an increase in wealth development. The figures for the next three years show a fall in employers' contributions of more than 2 billion, an increase in people's net income thanks to the 1.7 billion reduction in personal taxes and an increase in welfare envelopes of more than 1 billion. Put together, that's almost 5 billion. Still according to the monitoring committee's figures, not according to our figures, social security will increase by nearly 9 billion over the next three years. If the sum is added up, the measures taken by this majority will increase people's and businesses' income by more than 13.5 billion over the next three years. We spend more than 4.5 billion annually on families and entrepreneurs over the next three years. I believe that this majority is good for families, for entrepreneurs and for those who have the most difficulty. Mr Prime Minister, we have just heard about the search for a second breath. It is difficult in sport and politically difficult. We have indeed had a difficult time with that, but we have found him, and that is the most important thing. We do have results, and that is the most important thing. For us, it was essential that your compass continue to point in the same direction, the direction of economic growth and more employment, as well as the direction of social progress for those who are struggling. All these elements were combined and a balanced package was put together. That compass has continued to point in the same direction. That will continue to point in the same direction for the rest of the legislature. I remember the debate on the State of the Union in October. Prime Minister, you may recall that at that time I said that a reform of corporate taxation, fair taxation and the activation of savings capital are linked in substance. Some colleagues, including the majority, looked surprised. In the end, you also said that you would deal with these three dossiers together, and you kept your word. It is good that progress is being made in all the dossiers. This also keeps the measures balanced. Mr Laaouej (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, justice is not only found in fiscal policy, it is found in all policies, including social security. For our group and our party it was not a question of taxing more, it was a question of taxing differently. That is and remains the purpose of justice for us. The added value tax on the sale of shares by companies with important proceeds: that is for our justice. If extra income is provided for the caiman tax, this is a translation of a bill that we have been submitting for some time now, with anti-abuse measures, with a view to stimulating economic activity and tackling the trusts. We can, as it were, copy and fill out our proposal. At the time, we also had a proposal on capital gains tax. You have come up with a tax on securities, which, in the facts, let us be honest about that, my fellow Members, is actually a capital tax. I hear criticism that the threshold is too high. Mr Prime Minister, I know that you first came up with a lower threshold and a lower rate of valuation, but that this majority ultimately opted for a higher threshold and a higher rate of valuation. Anyway, the proceeds aren't irrelevant. I believe that we must ensure that this is achieved. The Minister for Finance will take this into account when drawing up the texts. I hear criticism from some Members of this House about this tax: that it would hardly represent anything and that it would also be avoided. If one is afraid that the tax would be dodged, one implicitly acknowledges that this tax actually means something, that people also consider it important in that sense. Yesterday there was a repeated critical voice. It's okay. That's the way it should be in a democracy. I quote him: "There's a door open that you didn't expect from a center-right government." Indeed, a door has been opened, and we think that is just and important. With regard to the reform of corporate taxation, I would also like to refer to what we said in the statement by the State of the Union. We were in favour of such a reform. We always have been. Our group also discussed this in the government negotiations. We attached some conditions to that. The reform had to be SME-friendly, promote employment, be fair and budget-neutral. I think those conditions are met. As far as SME friendliness is concerned, the burden on SMEs is going down very quickly. We pay attention to the sole proprietorship and to the self-employed. If we give the companies that are the engine of the economy in our country extra oxygen, this will increase employment. As far as justice is concerned, you have seen the slides and heard the statements made by the ministers, Mr Laaouej. Then I hear talk about a minimum tax, as we know it in Germany, for example. I think that's fair. If we introduce a European directive that tackles tax avoidance and is able to generate an important return, that seems to me to be fair. If we fight the joint venture, that seems fair to us. Can I remind you, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, that it is not easy for the start-ups to do so, as well as those companies which have barely any income or profits? Prime Minister, you have just started on budget neutrality. That shows that you think that's important. It won't be an easy exercise. However, when I refer to certain measures, Mr Laaouej, which can produce substantial returns, I think that an important part of the road has already been made. It goes without saying, however, that the texts that need to be available in the autumn and which we will have to adopt this year will be important in order to achieve this budget neutrality. Colleagues, as far as labour market policy is concerned, when people talk to entrepreneurs, but also to ordinary people, they feel that there is an increasing need for individual implementation. An individual approach for each family situation, an individual approach for entrepreneurs on the basis of their economic needs. This requires more tailor-made policies, a policy which must, of course, be balanced. That is why it is logical to provide flexibility for new sectors, such as e-commerce. It is then logical to provide flexibility for student work, which is increasing. When I drove here this morning and heard that it was actually too little, I felt reassured. Then I know that this government, this majority, has opted for human-size flexibility and also attaches importance to the quality of life of families. This is also demonstrated by some measures: the fight against burn-out and the reimbursement of clinical psychology. I refer to proposals by Mr Muylle on the subject which have been on your benches for a long time. Colleagues, justice is not just taxation. Justice is also the measures taken in the construction sector to combat social dumping. Justice is also increasing social benefits, as we do. The automatic allocation of rights is very important to us because those who have difficulty benefit most from it. Mr Lanjri will discuss these measures in greater depth. Justice is also mystery calls. Do you remember when some people said it wasn't gonna happen? Even within the majority there was doubt about that. What's the result? They'll get there. It seems to me to be the obvious thing. If we want to go to full employment in 2025, we need everyone, including immigrants. We must then have the courage to tackle discrimination. As far as immigrant employment is concerned, we score poorly below the OECD average. Let us achieve this in a balanced way, in consultation with the social partners. Last but not least, ARCO. Prime Minister, you know that our group has been working for years to respond to the legitimate concerns of ARCO savers. Therefore, no full remuneration, but fair remuneration. Colleagues, may I refresh our collective memory? In full banking crisis, we feared that our entire economic system would collapse and we had to play firefighters. Not only for ARCO, but for many others, to which we had already given an answer. That was the choice we made here in Parliament, not only the then majority, but also part of the opposition. We are filling in that promise, and so are you, Prime Minister. Those were commitments we made in the formation of your government, and I thank you for doing your best to keep that promise. It is good that this is done in as depoliticized a way as possible. It is good that I read in the media, especially that Belfius is given an important responsibility. Why is that good? Because Belfius has an interest in that too. If the liquidation of ARCO is to be dealt with, Belfius will also recover a non-significant amount from it in the light of its privileges. When ARCO is resolved, a millstone is gone from that bank and that bank will also increase in value. Colleagues, this is a win-win situation, for the ARCO savers, for the bank and therefore for the government. It is important, Prime Minister, to do this quickly. The patience of the ARCO savers has been tested for a long time and they must be given certainty by their implementation. I have every confidence that you will continue to put your shoulders underneath it. Prime Minister, it was said just now that you earned your vacation with your team. You may rightly be proud of this balanced agreement. You can take your team to Tomorrowland, but you can mainly go on vacation. As you rightly said, there is still a lot of work to be done. After a short holiday, these measures must be implemented in legislation and we will discuss them in detail here. And, as you pointed out earlier, we will not only have to legislate, we will also have to monitor them numerically. We need to keep an eye on budgetary figures in order, among other things, to monitor budget neutrality. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all, as well as the Prime Minister and his team, a hot summer in the coming weeks. However, we do not want hot autumn. This means that, in the legislative work, we are planning consultations with all parties involved, including civil society, in order to eliminate misunderstandings and feelings that may be unjustified, and to find balanced solutions. Over the next two years, we must continue to move towards the growth compass coupled with social progress for the benefit of the population. Every extra job we create means social reinforcement for people but also for our entrepreneurs in a hypercompetitive market. Prime Minister, I congratulate you and your team. We will discuss with you the measures you are preparing and will bring to Parliament and help to bring them to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u16	I call Mr Van Biesen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, our group is proud of this summer's agreement. It is a very ambitious, correct but also a very concrete summer agreement for us. It is ambitious because there are many initiatives that will strengthen prosperity in our region. That's the essence of the story, isn't it? It is therefore correct, because if we create more prosperity, there will also be more resources to support well-being. The government does this by also paying attention to the lowest incomes and particular problems. It is also very concrete. Contrary to what has just been said by the opposition, this agreement contains a great many measures which will compensate for a number of initiatives being taken. Our group is particularly proud that we can present and listen to this today. After all, today is Tax Liberation Day. From today on, people are starting to work for themselves and not for the government. Anyone who said earlier that there is no fat left or that there is not much overflow of the government should be aware that we are only starting to work for ourselves today. We are the second country on the list, an enviable place after France. We hope that through these measures the Tax Liberation Day will fall earlier. That will be the case, because the measures are fiscally correct and very concrete. You will not be surprised that we will be talking mainly about a series of fiscal measures in this agreement. Firstly, we are talking about reducing corporate tax rates. That is a very important part of the agreement. We needed to get these rates down to attract investments from abroad, but also to encourage our SMEs to take on company forms, to take the risk of reinvesting and undertaking in this country. There are a lot of measures. Two conditions are particularly important in this respect. First of all, it had to be a reduction in the taxes paid by SMEs. It happens. The nominal rate goes to 20 % from 2018 onwards, but it is almost never said that the disk to which this applies is quadrupled. Today, a reduced rate of 24.98 % applies to a disc of 25 000 euros. Now it will be 20% on the first disc of 100 000 euros profit. This is a fundamental difference that many small SMEs will feel. A second important condition was that a fairer share was also demanded of large companies, the multinationals. This is also included in this operation, because a minimum tax is also introduced. This is under-explained today. From the first million profits onwards, a minimum tax is introduced for large companies. They will be obliged to pay taxes on this. It is a fiscally correct move that we had prescribed, from a reduction in corporate tax for SMEs to a slight increase in corporate tax for larger companies and multinationals. As far as fairness is concerned, this can count. A second important part is the activation of savings. There we are taking a special step to extend the tax exemption that applies only to savings books to other forms of investment in order to obtain a kind of Cooreman-De Clercq II in this way. That has been an important law for the activation of savings, to lead people to the stock market and to invest in shares in a fiscally sound way. This is a very important measure. I firmly believe that it will support the growth of our businesses. A third important measure is that the tax shelter that exists today for start-ups will now also apply to growing companies. That's a big difference. Until now, he was only intended for those who started something new or innovative, but from tomorrow the tax shelter will make it possible for the manager to invest in his company, when he is in charge of a growing company, and he will also obtain a tax return. Another measure which is under-explained is to re-encourage investment deductions. You know that the notional interest deduction was a very important one in the 1990s, until 2010, to keep large companies here. As a result, the investment deduction had actually been systematically reduced. Now, the investment deduction for new investments involving companies will go from 8% to 20% tax benefit. This too is an important fiscal measure that is being taken, which will, of course, promote the courage to invest. Another important part of our vision is the EUR 500 that can be made extra. The flexi-jobs will no longer only apply in the catering sector, but will also be implemented in a much wider business field. In our view, this is particularly important, because it concerns people who already have work and want to get back to work. They can do this in a fiscally sound way and thus effectively gain 500 euros of purchasing power per month. That's not unimportant. Contrary to what the opposition always claims, these flexi jobs are not mini-jobs. They are also not fixed jobs that are converted into flexi-jobs. Flexi jobs do not affect our social security either. Flexi jobs are jobs that increase people's purchasing power and strengthen our country's entire prosperity, economic growth. That's the essence of a flexi job. They do not in any way prejudice the permanent jobs that exist today. We believe that this should be underlined. We thank the government for the clear choice of opening up the operational field to which these flexi-jobs apply. Another important measure is the introduction of profit premiums. Companies will be able to allocate part of their profits to their employees. This is tax-friendly, but also socially friendly. You will undoubtedly find that several SMEs and large companies will also be on this path. The fact that everyone, and not just the capital, can share in the profits of the companies, is, of course, an important fact. This reflects the new philosophy of enterprise that has emerged in recent years in our country and throughout the world, where it is no longer the provider of capital who is on the one hand and the employee on the other. No, it's a win-win situation for everyone. A company is not only the company of the capital provider, but also of the worker and the servant employed there. A sixth important point is that you want to take a serious step towards reducing public debt, Prime Minister. That is an essential fact. It would be irresponsible to saddle the next generations with the current high public debt. We need to take steps to reduce this. In this context, we welcome the 50 percent privatisation of Belfius. It is not the responsibility of the government to own and manage banks: leave that to those who are particularly competent. We support any privatisation of public enterprises where and when this is possible, when it is the best time for the public authorities to do so. In addition to these fiscal measures, we were struck by the exceptional attention paid to the well-being of workers in the workplace and of young people as such. A whole series of measures in this area have impressed. I would like to thank the ministers responsible for this to have achieved this within the whole. Steps are being taken to reduce the burn-out, to mentally guide young people and the elderly and to pay them back: these are essential points, with more prosperity also bringing more well-being. These are openings made in this summer's agreement, which is so ambitious that we can actually talk about a government agreement bis. Special attention to people's well-being, with attention to psychological guidance and burn-out control, is extremely important for us. Prime Minister, I will end with a call and an assignment. Everyone may go on vacation, but that does not mean that the task is done. During the first plenary session of this legislature, I asked you a question about the unfinished state reform and its consequences in terms of cooperation agreements. It is therefore clear that the budget is a joint effort of all levels, not just of the federal government. We have been in a situation for three years in which the part of the budget of the Länder, the regions, the Community and the local authorities is larger than the part of the federal government. In this context, it is therefore important to be able to make substantive agreements with every level in this country. That is perhaps one of the real main tasks, to put the sails all in the same direction, to know in which direction one should go. This is clearly a direction in which one must go. We need to get each level in the same direction in order to ultimately reduce public debt and, above all, to achieve a budget balance, whether next year or the following year. However, the budgetary balance must be taken together. A special effort will have to be made to achieve this. That is a task that our group is giving you. Perhaps the changed situation in Wallonia can be a small help to get the sails in the same direction. Let us hope that it will be possible with all the entities and local authorities, so that we can achieve a much faster budgetary balance than we ourselves prescribe today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u18	Mr President, first I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his statement. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, today we received a remake of yesterday's press conference. I was hoping to get some more details. Fortunately, thanks to Mr Laaouej, we have been given the figure table and we have become a little wiser, but it only confirms what we feared. Prime Minister, I do not understand the euphoria we feel with you, with your team and with the majority. You reached an agreement through one of the easiest ways, namely without working things out, without finishing them and, more importantly, without saying how this will be financed. Despite the figures, it remains very unclear how you will finance the additional measures. Mr De Roover, we stand for a society in which everyone is moving forward and in which everyone contributes towards equity. What this government has done in the past and also does with this agreement is to make the difference between those who have it very well and those who have it less well, not to make it smaller, but to make it bigger. All studies show that if one does this, the overall prosperity of a society decreases rather than increases. Ladies and gentlemen of CD&V, I am very sorry, but I still do not understand how you are satisfied with 0.15 percent justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u19	With you it was 0.0 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u20	You shouldn't get so nervous, Mr Verherstraeten. This is not even half of the contribution you have asked for to increase the price of electricity for families. Moreover, it is not my words, but it will be very easy for the specialists to avoid this tax. The proceeds are therefore uncertain. I would therefore be ashamed and, frankly, silent about a just taxation. If we look at financing, we know that a total of 2.9 billion has to be found. There are also technical corrections of more than 1 billion. We still have to get the details and we will have the opportunity to talk about them, but this seems very difficult. What is more important, however, is to save again in social security, amounting to 500 million. This means that health care, pensions and benefits are once again being saved. Madam Secretary, two years ago, you said your pockets were sewn shut. You can now see that health care will have to be saved again and your pockets will be picked open again. The financing is therefore not at all certain. Moreover, as we can see, funding will return to ordinary families. Again, 0.15 % for those who have EUR 500 000, that is not fair taxation, that is just a bummer. Once again, we still need to get the details. Let us take a look at what is happening for young people or for work in general, Minister. For the workers, the clock is literally turned back. Night work will be expanded, flexibility extended and the trial period will be re-established despite the fact that this agreement is part of a larger whole. Do you remember that from the previous period? However, we are going to move that aside and re-introduce the trial period. This means, of course, that the younger workers in particular will once again be weaker and can be made redundant more quickly, because they will usually end up in the trial period. There are certainly some positive things to be found in this agreement. We welcome, for example, the reimbursement of the costs of visiting the psychologist. We can also immediately see that the sector itself says that the budget now foreseen, EUR 22 million, will not be enough. In fact, we need the tenfold of that amount. Secondly, we have been asking for the mystery calls for a very long time. It's a good thing they're coming now. The automatic granting of rights is also a very good thing. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is negligible in everything else we see here. Again, the funding is not covered. Corporate taxes will fall. We're not against that at all, but we are for a shift, a tax shift. That means that what one shouldn't pay, we should go get it from the other. That's where the problem is. It is claimed here that this will be budget-neutral. Mr Laaouej did the math for us. Where are we going to get the four billion? That will not work with the tax you will levy on the securities account. We fear that this will be brought back to families, pensioners and the sick. Then let's talk about the ARCO file. Now we're gonna privatize a bank, sell it again. However, if you want to encourage SMEs and families, you should actually ensure that there is a bank that can deliver such incentives, where one can safely save and borrow and where one can be sure that the savings products will not be invested in any other way, because that has been the case with ARCO. People thought they had an ordinary savings product, when they actually had an investor product. We now have the opportunity to settle all this through a bank. We sell that bank and then we ask again the question that we asked a while ago: will the sale of that bank benefit the debt? Shall we pay off the debt with that? Or will it actually go to the ARCO savers? Do we think there should be a solution for the ARCO savers? Yes. Do we think we should sell a state bank that we've saved together with our money in the past for that? No. We're gonna get ourselves into a lot more trouble. We won't get any more dividends, so it won't be recurrent. Moreover, we have little or no more control over the banks in general. I think we will have a lot of discussions once we get the details of this agreement and of this budget. However, I would like to end by saying that this summer's agreement is in line with the funding of psychological care. It is a therapeutic session to make the government feel a second breath, but for which the necessary money is totally lacking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u21	I would ask Ecolo-Groen to leave only one speaker to speak. They asked for a second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, I thank you for this presentation, which is essentially what was unveiled yesterday, whether in press conferences or in the media. At the level of Ecolo-Groen, there are still a lot of questions, misunderstanding, vagueness and also choices of society that we regret because we do not share them. It is, of course, the political choices that are being made. I'll come back to a few points. I shall then allow my colleague, Wouter De Vriendt, to speak. These are important points for us, and they give us the vision of society that we would like to take with regard to the fiscal year and the socio-economic measures that you have taken. First of all, it's a little bit the Loch Ness monster that we discovered at the government level. It's that corporate tax we've been talking about for a long time. Finally, we decided to tackle corporate tax and to review it downwards. Ecolo-Groen has always advocated, for many years, for the reduction of corporate taxes, especially for SMEs. In principle, therefore, we have no concern to encourage activity, SMEs through a reduction in corporate tax. This decrease is significant in two respects, on the one hand to encourage the activity of SMEs and, on the other hand, in terms of tax justice. Indeed, it is well known that today SMEs pay 33.9% corporate tax, while most large multinationals and BEL20 companies are less than 5% corporate tax, creating a terrible tax injustice between SMEs and multinationals. What concerns me in the measures you have proposed is that all the possibilities of tax deduction that exist today, including the notional interests that have been mentioned, remain in place. In principle, it is positive to reduce corporate taxes for all companies, with a particular effort, on SMEs. On the other hand, I do not understand that you retain this tax injustice in favour of multinational groups, for the most part, who can afford to have a battery of tax specialists who optimize. I regret this choice to keep all these possible deductions. This morning, in the press, we are talking about some additional measures that would be taken. You didn't mention it in your presentation. It would appear that in some cases companies, which would generate at least EUR 1 million in results, would see all these deductions very limited. Notional interests would also be put in place on the basis of the Italian model, i.e. only new equity funds could benefit. These are all things we hear and read. Could you tell us what really appears on the agenda? Finally, we are also talking about the introduction of a minimum tax. As you have not mentioned, I would like to know whether that was the case and whether you intend to move on with it. Indeed, this could counterbalance the imbalance in tax justice that we need to see. As you probably know, fiscal justice is a dogma for environmentalists, not fiscal austerity. The fiscal effort must be carried out by society as a whole, especially those with the widest shoulders. It is not a secret: we want to make a greater contribution to capital and are in favour of measures such as taxation on capital gains. There is also a broad consensus within Belgian society in favour of such measures. Nothing is put in place at this stage in this direction. There's that 0.15% on the security accounts. But it's a symbolic drop of water in the ocean of fiscal injustice. We regret your lack of audacity in this area to rebalance this budget. This is what our fellow citizens expect in terms of socio-economic efforts. Finally, our major fear is who will pay the bill. The answers are not clear. We got the paintings at the last minute. So far, this has all too often been the weakest, low-income people. I'm thinking about the social beneficiaries, the pensioners. The table contains items such as "Economies on social expenditure", but we do not go further in detail. We are deeply concerned about this. Again, who will pay the bill for all the expenses you are presenting today? This is our major fear of the fiscal balance you are presenting. We also wanted to take up some positive signals from all the measures you have put forward. I'll take some of them back without going into detail. These signals are positive and I can only encourage you to overcome them. I am thinking in particular of the right to disconnection that has passed "between the drops". Being able to detach is, however, a fundamental subject of society today. We know that this is linked to the second point that I wanted to highlight: the treatment of burn-out, its individualisation and its accompaniment for which real budgetary resources must be granted. This measure should not be left at the stage of a line in a slide. Much more will have to be done in the treatment of burn-out and in the right to disconnect. I also refer to the mystery calls in the fight against discrimination in hiring, a subject that is very close to our heart. Ecolo-Groen has tabled a similar text in the Brussels Parliament, which is about to be adopted by the Brussels government. I encourage you to be at least as ambitious in your policy in this regard. The fight against social dumping is also a matter of great interest to us with particular encouragement for the construction sector and measures to promote the status of the self-employed. But our great concern and concern, I repeat, is who is going to pay the bill for all these new measures, although on the part of environmentalists, we believe that these are good measures that are in the right direction. Last but not least, as far as the climate is concerned, it is like the economy whose slogan is "jobs, jobs, jobs", as far as the climate is concerned, it is rather "nothing, nothing, nothing"! This is a great disappointment for us. Whether in terms of mobility for SNCB or for company cars, we don't touch the system! SNCB remains the poor parent of public investment and, in terms of ambitious energy targets, we remain hungry. You often mention the Paris agreements during your speeches in plenary, Prime Minister, and that is very good! But where are the actions in terms of ecological transition, economy, society, energy policy? There is no green line in this budget! You're talking about green bonds. But that's just one word in your presentation. What are the modalities? How will the projects be selected? How are you going to raise citizen savings? Is it through green bonds? We are asking for more explanations, but on the whole vision of the fight against climate change, it is really extremely disappointing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u23	Mr President, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the government and the Prime Minister for offering to make myself available to Parliament. This session is welcome. The transparency exercise has its limits and there are many questions that are likely to remain unanswered, since the presentation is a bit of a repetition of what has been communicated to the press. Nevertheless, half of the government is here with the Prime Minister, and that is a gesture to be welcomed. I also thank the committee chairmen and the Speaker of the House for organizing this exchange of views. Prime Minister, the title of the presentation announces ambitious reforms for employment, purchasing power and social cohesion. I want to say that if there is one chapter on which you have revised your ambitions downwards, it is the budget chapter. You are announcing for 2018 a limited effort of 2.9 billion, which is not nothing. But this does not allow the restoration of fiscal balance, which was your government's initial objective. Mr Verherstraeten referred to the commitments made in 2014. In 2014, there was a bold commitment, perhaps a little reckless, to restore fiscal balance by 2018! When I hear Mr Piedboeuf say that at MR, we are always doing what we are announcing, I would like to invite him to some form of modesty as far as what has been announced for the budget trajectory has not been verified! There is therefore a form of failure, even if arguments are developed: Europe which does not oblige us to balance the budget so quickly, a willingness to take into account the negative effects of too drastic a budgetary rigour. All this is not without foundation, but there has still been a downward revision of the original ambition. When we make the fiscal history of this legislature, we can distinguish three stages. The first is very voluntarist, with the affirmation of the restoration of balance. We were going to see what we were going to see, that was the government's main goal. Then there was a period of doubt. The Minister of Budget said at one point that "all options were on the table". It was clear from that point on that point that the objective of budgetary balance was at least called into question. The third period was embodied by the president of the N-VA, who said a little abruptly that restoring the balance of the budget was a joke and that, obviously, it was not going to happen. This is the period of renunciation, in any case in relation to the initial ambition. I would like to point that out, because it removes a little credibility from your budget announcements. In particular, I would like to stress that we are obviously not in the presence of the 2018 budget. In fact, Prime Minister, you said it yourself. These are guidelines. Until the fall presentation, a lot of water will flow under the bridges. In fact, in the middle of the summer, there was a political agreement. Everyone finds out what they want to find there. But in my view, the 2018 budget is not complete. Many unknowns will still have to be lifted within a few months. The general figures presented to us are likely to be questioned, if only because macroeconomic and macro-budgetary parameters will necessarily change. Beyond the comments on this fiscal trajectory, a word about taxation. The big piece, in any case the most expected, was undoubtedly the reform of corporate tax. I must say, on behalf of the CDH Group, that we are looking forward to it. We have tabled a bill to put pressure on the need to reform a tax system that is indeed unfair to companies and that is far from European standards. We agreed from the outset to the need for reform. I can therefore say a form of satisfaction with the draft agreement; but, at the same time, dissatisfaction because, objectively, the contours of the reform remain very vague. The presentation documents do not contain any figures on corporate tax reform. The rates that will change are mentioned, but there is no figure on the budgetary impact of this reform. Will you confirm the 4 billion announced by our colleague Mr Ahmed Laaouej or are you working on another envelope? In any case, there is nothing in the document that you have presented to us. There is also nothing very comprehensible and no figures on the financing of this reform. You affirm the principle of budgetary neutrality. For us, at this stage, it is a postulate. We tend to say we're just asking to believe you. But there are no figures to support this commitment. You yourself have also announced the need for monitoring, as if you were doubting the reality of this budgetary neutrality. The only sources of funding that are provided in the document are threefold: the limitation of deductibility - which, in what proportions? - the increase in sanctions - is it going to achieve a little of the four billion announced? - and compliance. You will acknowledge that, as regards a major political issue on which the government has been working for months and which has been transferred from the Minister of Finance to the Prime Minister, one could expect, once an agreement was announced, a little more complete information. We'll wait until we have a final opinion on this. This may be in the right direction but, honestly, the beginning is still too light to give much reliability and credibility to this part of the reform. We will be looking forward to the details that will certainly be communicated to us, particularly in the Finance Committee. When we know how misunderstandings have arisen about the financing of the first tax shift, at this stage in any case we cannot be completely reassured. Also in the tax register, the debate was interesting because it allowed us to hear the CD&V group leader give a satisfaction but on the basis of elements which, again, are not included in the government's presentation document. There are probably things that have been agreed within the majority. We would have liked to see them expressed more "officially", if I may say so. We talked about capital gains taxation. Unless it is wrong, this does not appear at all in the document that was presented, but I hear that there is still a decision on the table, I assume, since Mr Verherstraeten announced it. Could you, Prime Minister, tell us more? Indeed, it was understood that, politically, this was one of the priorities. It is a bit curious to see that this is not reflected in the discussion paper which presents the options ultimately chosen by the government. I would tend to say the same thing for the Arco case. I hear that there is an agreement and that the CD&V welcomes it, but not a word about it in the document that is presented. I therefore assume that the parties of the majority have agreed. If this could be said by the Prime Minister who is the guarantor of the cohesion of this majority, this would in any case give more information and clarification to parliamentarians, especially those who are not in the first circle of discussion as they sit on the opposition benches. In my turn, I would like to raise doubts about the performance of this so-called "subscription" tax. The name makes it impossible to understand what it is. It's a security account tax. The announced yield is 254 million euros. It's not nothing. But we can see that there are risks of avoidance. Did you anticipate them? Can you guarantee this amount? We are awaiting clarification. You assume the reduction of half of the exemption for the savings account. This is an important act that has a real impact on the saver. This measure may make sense if savings are to be reoriented towards a more productive investment, but account holders will undoubtedly be affected. On the employment front, there are positive things. In particular, I would like to welcome the reduction in the cost of labour in the construction sector, which is hit by unfair competition. The reductions announced are welcome. On the other hand, the reading of all the measures announced shows an increase in the precariousness of the labour market. It is necessary to see where the cursor is put, but the extension of flexi-jobs, night work, especially in e-commerce, the generalisation of temporary work without any exceptions in the private sector and with a stronger incentive in the public sector reinforce a model based on flexibility and hence precariousness. This is accompanied by measures to promote well-being at work, against burn-out. All this is nice, and you express the concern to stick to the realities experienced by our fellow citizens. But I would like to ask you about the reality of the temporary worker and his ability to build a career and a life project. I don't think that's possible. You will probably improve the employment figures, but the holders of these jobs will not be able to rejoice at an improvement in their quality of life. Finally, I would like to refer to the measures taken in the social sector. That is not nothing: 500 million euros of negative measures, which we shall go back to in detail. There are certainly positive measures in the package. We welcomed the 22 million – objectively, it's a bit derisory – for psychological care. It is true that there are things to be done about mental health. I do not deny the existence of positive measures or measures. But overall, 500 million additional savings in social spending is not nothing. In terms of health, should we expect a new screwdriver? Will excise duties, particularly on sodas, benefit from a health policy? Or will it feed the federal fund as a whole? These are questions that will need to be asked in more detail when the measures come before the various committees. There is, in any case, one point that I would like to stress because it is a point that touches me, not to say that it shockes me. These are measures taken in the disability sector. This chapter is presented under the heading of social cohesion. Very well, but when you read what it's about, you can see that in reality, these are negative measures. This is a strengthening of the conditions for allowances for persons with disabilities. It's a fight against benefit fraud. This is the introduction of increased controls. It's an activation of people with disabilities. Frankly, to present this as favourable measures, it was necessary to dare. There is a need to combat all forms of fraud in all sectors, but it seems to me that there is a double standard. When we see the details of the measures that will hit the disabled sector and at the same time we see the inconsistency of the fight against tax fraud: 50 million euros appear somewhere but there is no detailed measure. There is a disparity that does not argue for the overall balance of the agreement that you have presented to us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u24	For the work, I see three more people want to take the floor in a second round. Are they gonna stick to that? Or do we decide, as intended, to stop 13:00? Mr De Vriendt, Mr Clarinval and Mr Crusnière are holding. I propose that the interventions be very short, three or four minutes, no more, otherwise we will start a new round. Mrs Lanjri also wishes to speak. I think everyone's got a chance to say their opinion. Three minutes per person, starting with Mr. Clarinval. Make your point, Mr Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u25	Mr President, my colleague Benoît Piedboeuf has already spoken on fiscal and budgetary issues. I wanted to talk quickly about social measures. When, like me, we have been paying attention to the issues in the Committee on Social Affairs for almost eight years, we can only be impressed by the list of measures which are decided on in social and employment matters. We cover all concerns and provide a comprehensive, coherent response to them by strengthening our economy, rewarding work and helping people in difficult situations. We see that the details have been measured. In the field of employment, there are flexi-jobs, e-commerce and the fight against social dumping, particularly in construction. We're working on trial periods, starter jobs, acting. There are pension measures in relation to the second and third pillars. We're strengthening the wellness envelope. We are talking about the non-market sector, we are talking about well-being at work. These debates have been very lengthy in committee. We approach older workers, we fight against over-indebtedness. We are talking about the automaticity of part of social rights. We have had hearings on these matters. It is clear, therefore, that the government has, in great coherence, taken care to address all the themes that have been on the table for our committee for several years. I wanted to stress that. We can see the line that is set up. We are taking fiscal and economic measures to strengthen the competitiveness of our businesses. This competitiveness creates employment, generates revenue and reduces spending on our social security, which is being strengthened. We can therefore take social and anti-poverty measures. It is a virtuous circle that has demonstrated its effects for two years. We have no doubt that it will still have very positive effects in the years to come. Mr President, my colleagues in the MR and I can only welcome this comprehensive, coherent and clearly weighed work. I congratulate the entire government on this work. We will enthusiastically support these major economic and social reforms for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, there are of course a number of positive things in this agreement. I think you are right to be proud of the reform of corporate taxation. Green has also been for lower corporate tax, always. This is now on the table, as are a number of other concessions such as psychological aid. In fact, this was your last chance for a great deal of agreement on justice, because we are going to the elections in 2018-2019. Now it should have happened. Except it didn't happen. We should have made a shift towards fair taxation, towards a large package to strengthen social policy and a present dimension on the green economy and climate policy. These are matters that are lacking in your summer agreement. It is clear that this operation did not produce fair taxation. Instead, we, and especially the people out here, get a breadcrumb. There is no fair contribution from superpowers, but there are new savings in social policy. I'll come back to that later. Moreover, there is also a certain amount of budgetary fiction. You actually put aside the monitoring committee's forecasts. They said you had to make an effort of more than EUR 4 billion in 2018. You don't do that. You also come up with rather rosy projections of growth and technical corrections that are barely detailed. In this way, it is not so difficult to add up a budget. Climate policy is really a blind spot. I cannot understand why there are still political parties today who come forward with such a large agreement without the common thread being green economy and climate policy. First of all, your tax on the securities account. Looking at the simulations, you are asking for a contribution of several hundred euros to the superpowers of 500 000 euros and 1 million euros. That's not serious. People are calling for fiscal justice, for a shift, for a new balance that, of course, means much more than that. Moreover, I am looking at Minister Van Overtveldt's question as to whether it will not be easy to avoid it. For example, a securities account could be perfectly split between two spouses, so as to remain below the 500 000 euro bar. What about splits of bvba...? What about new accounts being opened? You say that this will have to be indicated in the declaration of personal taxes, but to what extent will this be controlled and guaranteed? The imbalance with the savings in social policy that you are imposing again from 2018 is striking. You want to impose twice as much savings in social policy as you want to collect with your tax on securities accounts. Come on, people expect something else from a government that values justice. In addition, there is an extra gift for everyone who buys shares. There is an exemption of up to EUR 627 on the withholding tax on dividends. On top of that, all super-capitals that are already under taxation will also receive an exemption if they buy shares, on that initial income from dividends. It is a matter of superpowers certainly not too much to burden. This was a last chance for a major agreement on fiscal justice. In my view, Prime Minister, together with your government parties, you are not sufficiently aware of the frustration of the people. After weeks of negotiation and the bickering of the last few months and years, people were looking forward to a trophy, something important, Mr Verherstraeten and colleagues of the CD&V. That is clearly not on the table here, unless you find a few hundred euros worth of capital taxes for superpowers of 500 000 euros or 1 million euros really interesting. You may explain that to the man in the street. They often find it difficult to pay their invoices at the end of the month. You know that, don't you? Finally, the budgetary picture. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the financial table we have received. This proves that the government does have a table. I think it is wrong that this should simply not be transmitted to Parliament, so that we can discuss it with all the information. Why should we call on the PS's colleagues to get a more detailed table? That seems to me to be a traditional and old political culture, Prime Minister. As far as the budget is concerned, you need to look for 2.9 billion by 2018. The Monitoring Committee mentioned the amount of 4.2 billion, but good. For two thirds of these 2.9 billion you are counting on technical corrections and an optimistic growth forecast. Two thirds of the budgetary picture therefore depends on a large package of technical corrections, which we do not really know exactly what is happening. There is no detail of it, not even in this table. After all, we do not know what measures you will take, how you will make all these technical corrections and how you will get that EUR 2.9 billion in 2018. There are then EUR 550 million savings in social policy. However, there are few details in this area too. I read that it is about pensions, savings in the treated periods for pensions. What'll that be? People have already had to turn in pensions and similar periods. Are we gonna go into that any further? There are no details and we cannot therefore discuss what that will mean. However, we know that the savings you impose in social policy will be twice as much as the contribution you will require from the superpowers. We do know that. So injustice trumps. Again! Prime Minister, I think you have chosen your destination well, Tomorrowland, the land of fantasy and fiction. I would ask you to abolish that visit and I would advise you to go to the residential areas, to the people, to hear what people think and want. Then you will find that the call for fiscal justice is still there after this summer's agreement. Colleagues of CD&V, you have been re-rolling in this. Once again, there is no mention of a proper contribution from the superpowers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u27	Mr President, I will complete my colleague Ahmed Laaouej's speech on the social side. In the social sector, the same revenue is presented to us in this draft budget. It is once again a question of precarising employment and, unfortunately, our fellow citizens. As my colleague said, this is more than half a billion savings on the backs of workers, pensioners and social beneficiaries. We've already talked about flexi-jobs, which you want to extend to pensioners and retail businesses. This system encourages precarious contracts while reducing social security contributions. This concerns people who already have a job and it does not improve the employment rate. On the other hand, it is a question of competing for regular jobs with more precarious jobs, to the detriment of social security, in sectors which are already difficult. We had the Horeca and you're extending it here to the distribution sector, where it's mostly women who are forced to part-time. For us, the fact of going ever further into precariousness is unacceptable, especially since you extend it here to pensioners. After a series of attacks that you have carried out against pensioners – the increase in the consumption tax is part of it – they benefit less and less from a decent income and are forced to take advantage of the sidelines. There is clearly an evolution towards Anglo-Saxon models. In the context of flexi-jobs, there are two pending appeals to the Constitutional Court. Nevertheless, without waiting for the verdict, you decide to extend this system. One may wonder whether this is indeed a serious management in this area. Moreover, as the Council of State had pointed out, one might wonder whether it was not State aid. Again, despite the fact that we have not yet had our appeasements, you decide to extend the system. And by that, you also increase the risk of sanctions. I'll say a word about night work and Sunday work in e-commerce. Here too, you go even further by overstepping interprofessional consultation again. You are talking about allowing night work by amending the labour regulations – which no longer requires the agreement of the workers – and having the agreement of only one union. Here too, it is dividing to better rule! This also means that there will no longer be any possibility of negotiating compensation for night or Sunday work. Here, too, the government is back in force by disregarding social consultation. And you do not take into account the harmful effects of night work on physical and mental health, while it is proven that night work reduces life expectancy. Again, you prefer the demands of some employers to the detriment of workers, their health and their privacy. As far as unemployment is concerned, you have decided to adapt the concept of suitable employment. I would like to have some clarification on what you mean by "appropriate employment". You say, without further detail, that it is a matter of taking into account the experience gained. I would like to have a few appeasements on this because the risk is that tomorrow, a job seeker will be forced to accept any job offer, under penalty. Let's not be fooled! To combat social dumping, the main measure you are taking is to reduce social contributions in the construction sector. The fact that you take almost that measure means that, again, you respond, here as elsewhere, only to an employer's request. In fact, we find nothing on social, environmental and ethical clauses in public procurement. There is nothing about the European minimum wage or the payment of employers' contributions, for example in the country of work. So you have to be lucid, given the prices of some. It is not by reducing employers' contributions a little bit that we can compete with the companies that exploit the workers of the East or the South, paying them a misery but only, and you know, by regulating more. With regard to the trial period and the notice period, you have decided to reduce the notice period during the first months of the commitment, both for CSDs and CDIs. Again, this is an attack on social consultation. As is well known, the abolition of the trial period and the harmonization of notice periods have been the subject of a delicate compromise in the context of the establishment of the single statute. It is therefore imperative for us that a review of these deadlines be agreed by all the social partners. We know that there have been several weeks of negotiations on this subject, which unfortunately could not be concluded. Last June, trade unions decided to withdraw from the negotiations because they made it clear that they had not had sufficient guarantees to continue the social dialogue. But the bosses asked you to take your hand and decide in the file, and that's what you're doing here. This shows once again that you only cut in the direction of the bosses, making the choice to weaken the workers by these different acts. As far as the wages of young people are concerned, you say you guarantee the net salary, the effect of the tax shift included. Explain to us clearly what this means, because it is not clear either in the texts or in your presentation today. You confirm the desire to reduce the wages of young people under 21 years of age. This measure has been the subject of much discussion. It was also proposed by an amendment, then withdrawn, under the Peeters Act. Do we return to this desire to reduce wages for under-20s by 6%, for under-19s by 12% and for under-18s by 18%? To ensure that this reduction in gross wages did not affect the net salary, the government had provided for a premium to be paid by the ONEM to compensate for the difference between the salary that the young person should have received and the net salary actually received. Does this logic always prevail? These are questions that need to be clarified. If that is still the issue, it creates competition between these workers and other workers who do not benefit from this reduction. It is again with the social security money that a gift to employers is financed. Mr President, in conclusion, I would also like to talk about the second pillar of the self-employed pension and the supplementary pension for employees. Rather than strengthening legal pensions, which are among the weakest in Europe, the government is cutting them down and again, encourages private funded pensions. The result is, of course, that only those who have the means will be able to receive an adequate pension. We know that there is very little solidarity in the world of supplementary pensions. In conclusion, you want to emancipate people, but in view of the measures presented today, you are only precarising them. You are again increasing taxes on consumption and reducing the means of social security. As I said in the introduction, once again, the same revenues are applied: more for employers, more for the more affluent, and less for workers, less for pensioners and less for social beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u28	Mr President, contrary to what some people are saying, jobs are being created and purchasing power increased, including those whose lives are difficult in this society. There are critics who claim that this does not involve justice, but the opposite has been proven. On the basis of a number of examples, I shall focus on strengthening social justice. The present agreement strengthens social justice for those who work or want to work. Sometimes people want to work, but they are discriminated against for reasons of age, origin or sex. This discrimination will now be addressed. In our majority resolution, we have always said: if it can be done through sensitisation and self-regulation, if it has to be done with a stick behind the door. After a lot of pressure, mystery calls will come and the inspection will be able to do anonymous practice tests. The hearing officer also has a role to play, but an important first step has been taken on something that has been debated for a long time in the previous legislature, but which has never been achieved. I am pleased that the sp.a admits that this is a good, concrete measure. We have now been able to implement this proposal with the majority, with the support of a number of opposition parties. Secondly, it is also positive to bet on young people. It is important to promote the employment of young workers without affecting net income. It will be through a tax reduction for employers; no accumulated rights will be lost, no reduction in pension formation or no reduction in unemployment rights. Older workers are also being considered, as employers who are committed to the permanent employment of older workers offering adapted jobs will be compensated for this. That too is a very important measure. Then there is the construction sector, in which 200 000 people are employed. We have tabled a resolution to tackle social dumping and I am pleased to see that there is a further reduction in the burden on the construction sector. Secondly, it is also important that there is justice for those who do something for others. I see this in the measure for carers, for example. Fortunately, half-time carers will now be able to build up pension rights for those other often more than half-time carers who show up for sick relatives or other people, which is very important. That is a nice addition to Minister Vandeurzen's care plan. It is also a measure that we ourselves proposed in our resolution from CD&V. If people are committed to others, they must be rewarded. That is also what we see in the measure to earn EUR 500 per month. This is about jobs or tasks for non-profit organisations or within leisure activities, for example as a football coach, in welfare organisations or with disabled people. That is a positive thing. Of course, we are in favour of this. Last but not least, it is also important to bet on people who are having a hard time. How long has there been no debate on the automatic granting of rights? That was also stated in the coalition agreement and in my resolution which was adopted two years ago. I am glad that the government is making a real point of this now. I hope that this will be done in a very specific way for a number of benefits to which they are entitled. The weakest often do not know the way to these benefits, or cannot cope with the administrative burden. Now we are going to automate it, so that those concerned are given what they really deserve. I'm also thinking of the weak and the sick. One in three people have psychological problems. Last year more than 133 000 people stayed home for more than a year because of psychological problems. That is why it is good that the proposal is now on the table to pay back psychologists, something that Mr Muylle also effectively argued for. I'm getting to my stick horse. All the members of the Social Affairs Committee may know about it, and I have already tabled a number of legislative proposals on it, in particular the raising of benefits to the poverty line. That's what the coalition agreement says. We are moving in this direction step by step. We are not yet there, but I am pleased that 370 million is being allocated to systematically increase benefits in three steps................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is about the weakest and they must be given what they are entitled to. In short, this summer agreement is a step-by-step implementation of what was agreed in the coalition agreement, but we also find in this agreement many of the proposals that CD&V has put forward, based on social justice. I'd like to congratulate the whole team for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u29	The last speaker is the co-chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u30	Mr Prime Minister, many Members have addressed you. I would like to address the Minister of Work, Kris Peeters and Minister Van Overtveldt. We saw Kris Peeters in plenary a few weeks ago very combably when it came to full employment by 2025 and the measures needed. At that time it was also apparent that his patience with the social partners was exhausted, because in a number of dossiers such as the mystery calls, the trial period and the start-up jobs that social partners are not prepared to force essential breakthroughs. I am very pleased, and I fully support the agreement reached by this government on the social front, that we will achieve fundamental breakthroughs in order to enable the employment of young people, immigrants and the elderly through this package of measures. The mystery calls are necessary to combat the discrimination that exists in our labour market. A more flexible period of notice will also make it easier for young people to be recruited. A new Minister of Work was born. Keep that line on, if it is possible with the social partners, but sometimes it will also be necessary to do so without them. I would also like to address the Minister of Finance. Much has been said today about justice and taxation. Last week in plenary, you referred to a report by Oxfam International, which shows that our country, after Sweden, is the second most redistributing country in the world, including through taxation. We seem to forget that 10% of our people pay 46 percent of the taxes in this country. When I hear some people, it is better to see all those people leaving the country than to ensure that the strongest shoulders can still bear the heavy burden. In recent years this group has made a lot more contributions, Minister. There was a doubling of the withholding tax, ladies and gentlemen. You seem to be ignoring this: EUR 6 billion paid by the richest in this country. There was a doubling of stock market taxes, an increase in the tax on internal capital gains and taxes on common funds. These are all measures taken by this government, including a subscription fee for shares and bonds. Those who think that this will affect the most rich, the super rich, are mistaken. The Frères and the InBevs of this world will always organise themselves to invest abroad with foreign companies if necessary. Who will pay this tax? The people, the self-employed, hard-working executives who are willing to make that effort. But you should also know that these people do this because they want to save for a pension, such as that of civil servants in our country, who also have a rich pension. People have a right to that. I would therefore ask the Minister for Finance to monitor this measure very closely. We have had the speculative tax and the effect was negative on the stock exchange, negative for the economy and negative for the state finances. I hope that you will be careful to ensure that this new measure, the subscription fee, does not have the same effect. That is what we will certainly look closely at with our party. For the rest, I would of course like to congratulate the Prime Minister. It is a start, some speak of a second breath. In any case, I see a prime minister who believes in his team and his work, who has completely restored the cohesion of the team. I also see a team that will really go for it for the next two years. There will be a lot of work to be done in our committees. In any case, our group supports this summer agreement, a government agreement bis, as our colleague said. Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, enjoy your holiday. Feel free to go to Tomorrowland. Mr De Vriendt, you want to abolish Tomorrowland. Let the people have fun in this country, because the motto of the Belgians is work hard, play hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-27-54-commissie-ic719x.u31	I would like to thank Members for their speeches. We got a chance to say our opinion. The debate is obviously not over. In the autumn, we will go into more detail in connection with the budget negotiations and the programme laws. This agreement was concluded only 32 hours ago and was communicated yesterday afternoon. We have already had a lot of information, but I understand that a number of fellow Members want more information. There's gonna have to be one. I would like to thank the government for the information it has provided. The debate is not yet closed, but it is for today.
