ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, On 16 August, he died in Kortrijk, 82 years old, Eric Vankeirsbilck, Honorary President of the Chamber. Eric Vankeirsbilck was born on 11 January 1935 in Ingelmunster. Since childhood, Rik Vankeirsbilck has been a member of various associations, including the KAJ, the Catholic Workers' Youth. After his secondary studies at the Sint-Amandscollege in Kortrijk, his social movement drove him to the Social University in Heverlee, where he obtained the diploma of social assistant. When his Izegem party mate André Bourgeois asked him to set up a section of the CVP youth in Ingelmunster, Rik Vankeirsbilck went into this with great enthusiasm. His political career was launched: in January 1965 he became a city council member and immediately also ships in Ingelmunster. Six years later, in January 1971, he became mayor, a post which he would continue to hold until December 1991. Rik Vankeirsbilck was a maizer in the full sense of the word. He ensured the proper management of his commune but was also close to its administrators on a daily basis. True to his maxim "kindness costs nothing", he was always willing to help with tact and caution. He embodied this helpfulness in his role as director of the social credit company Voor Ons Volk, president of the social housing company De Mandelbeek and managing director of the nursing and nursing home Maria Rustoord. As chairman of the Catholic University of South-West Flanders, the current Catholic University of Vives, he again made an effort to offer his young regional colleagues a full range of higher education courses. In October 1973, Rik Vankeirsbilck became a member of the Chamber of Representatives of the Roeselare-Tielt arrondissement. For more than 20 years until May 1994 he exercised that mandate in an orderly, methodical and effective manner. After serving as Vice-President of the House for three years, Rik Vankeirsbilck served as President between 19 January 1988 and 10 May 1988, in full formation of the Martens VIII government. He then returned immediately to vice-president and remained so until the end of his parliamentary career in 1994. Rik Vankeirsbilck chaired several committees, including the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service. In the interest of the proper functioning of our Assembly, he was a very active member of the Special Committee on Rules of Procedure and Reform of Parliamentary Work and chaired the Advisory Committee on the Status of Parliamentarians during the first half of the non-permanent years. In the performance of his parliamentary duties, Rik Vankeirsbilck could, if he had to, act decisively. However, he never lost his so distinctive courtesy and modesty. During his term as MP, from 1973 to 1994, Rik Vankeirsbilck witnessed at the same time and actor in an exceptional institutional transformation process, gradually transforming this country from a unitary state to a federal state. Rik Vankeirsbilck was firmly convinced that the new political structures, created after decades of debate, would enable and even promote the peaceful coexistence of the different Communities and Regions. He never doubted that our democracy was able to find solutions to the most diverse problems, to the well-being and happiness of all. In May 1994, after his withdrawal from active political life, Rik Vankeirsbilck continued to follow closely the daily life of his municipality of Ingelmunster, whose inhabitants showed to him to the end their friendship and esteem. But his political retreat was especially the moment for him to take full advantage of the presence of his three children and his four grandchildren, even though he always managed, even at the most agitated moments of his political life, to devote time to his family. On behalf of the Chamber, I expressed our sincere condolences to his wife, Marie-Jeanne, and to the family, whom I greet in our gallery at his funeral.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u3	Mr President, the government, together with the Chamber, wishes to pay tribute to Rik Vankeirsbilck, former representative of the CD&V/CVP and former President of the Chamber. During his term of office in the Chamber, he was well-known for his knowledge of the file and his former colleagues remembered him as a modest, enthusiastic and engaging man. He was also active in local politics. Perhaps the most emblematic of his cases was his vigorous struggle for the independence of his commune of Ingelmunster at the time of the merger of the communes. His sincerity and service were recognized by friend and enemy. As his daughter confirmed in the press this summer, he constantly presented the interests of his municipality to those of his party. His fellow citizens gave him the confidence for 20 years, until 1991. In the name of the government, I extend my sincere condolences to his family and his neighbors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we observe a few moments of silence in memory of the former President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u5	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, He died on August 6 in Charleroi, 73 years old, Jaak Van den Broeck, honorary member of the Chamber of Representatives. Jaak Van den Broeck was born in Hamme on 31 October 1944. After obtaining his diploma of upper secondary technical education, Jaak Van den Broeck became a teacher at the Sint-Jorisinstituut in Basel. His commitment in several Flemish nationalist associations led him to active politics, first as a member of the Volksunie, then as a member of the Vlaams Blok. Within this party, Jaak Van den Broeck became District President of Termonde - Saint-Nicolas in 1990. In January 1995, he became a communal councillor in Hamme, a mandate he held until his death. From May 1995 to June 2007, Jaak Van den Broeck was a member of the Chamber. As a member of the Commission for Justice and the Social Affairs Committee, he dealt with certain aspects of the fight against crime and transfers through social security expenditure. His interest was also in tax fraud, public procurement and military procurement. On behalf of the Chamber, I expressed my sincere condolences to his wife and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u6	Mr President, as a professor of training, Jaak Van den Broeck became politically active in the 1990s. He becomes a member of the Volksunie and then of the Flemish Interest. He will be elected twice in the Chamber of Representatives, in 1995 and in 2003. He was also active in his municipality of Hamme, where he served as a city council member for more than 20 years. In the name of the government, I extend my deepest condolences to his family and his neighbors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, may I suggest that, in memory of this late colleague, we observe a few moments of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u8	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Linda Musin, a former member of the House of Representatives, died on 14 August in Liège at the age of 60. Linda Musin was born in Liège on 15 November 1956. In 1979, she graduated from the University of Liège with a degree in history, after which she began her career at the archives centre of the Émile Vandervelde Institute. In 1987, she founded the Liegeois Institute of Social History, which, under her leadership, became a centre of documentation and research focusing on the history of the workers' movement in the province of Liège. Linda Musin began her political career in 1992 when she became a member of the PS OCMW Council in Fléron. From January 1995 she was also a city council member and from January 2001 to April 2010 mayor. Socially moved as she was, she managed, among other things, to set up a fully developed family planning centre. From June 2007 to May 2014, Linda Musin sat in the Chamber of Representatives for the province of Liège. In particular, she is Vice-Chair of the Naturalisations Committee and is particularly active in the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises. Following the rail accident in Buizingen in February 2010, it paid great attention to improving railway safety in Belgium. Linda Musin was also very involved in the fight for gender equality, in the fight against social exclusion and in the peace movement. This very month, this very dear colleague would again be a member of our assembly. However, a lingering disease decided differently. On behalf of the House, I offered our sincere condolences to her husband and family.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was with deep sadness that we learned of the death of our former colleague Linda Musin. As a training historian, she felt that it was necessary to be able to learn from the past in order to build a better future. We will keep her remembering a committed woman with strong convictions. On behalf of the government, I extend my deepest condolences to his family and loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to observe a few moments of silence in memory of our late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u11	You have received a draft agenda for today's sitting. You have received a draft agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 September 2017, I propose that you postpone discussion of the draft law amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights in order to reform the Registry Rights, Nos 2569/1 to 9. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of September 20, 2017, I propose to defer the discussion of the bill amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Fees to reform Registry Fees, Nos. 2569/1 to 9. Are there any comments on this? Is there any comment on this? As a result, the agenda was adopted as amended. Accordingly, the agenda as amended was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u12	By letter dated 18 September 2017, the Brussels-Capital Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 18 September 2017, the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u13	By letter of 19 September 2017, the United Assembly of the Joint Community Committee informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 19 September 2017, the Assembly meeting of the Joint Community Commission announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u14	By letter from... 4 September 2017 the MR Group of the Chamber informed me that Mr David Clarinval was appointed as group chairman. By letter dated 4 September 2017, the MR Group of the House informed me of the appointment of Mr.David Clarinval as group chair. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u15	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 September 2017, I read to you the letter I sent yesterday to the Prime Minister: In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 September 2017, I read to you the letter I sent yesterday to the Prime Minister: "At the meeting of the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday 20 September 2017, several members expressed their surprise and discontent at the absence of a significant number of ministers (not less than six!), While it was agreed that parliamentary work would be resumed from the second half of September onwards. "During the meeting of the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday, 20 September 2017, several members expressed their astonishment and discontent at the absence of a large number of ministers (no less than six!), While it was agreed that parliamentary work would now resume from the second half of September. Although your participation in the United Nations General Assembly and in the Tallinn European Summit has in no way been contested and it is a fact that September is traditionally rich in international events, I must remind you that the Government must be sufficiently represented to be able to respond to the requests of the House's representatives and to allow the work of the House to proceed smoothly. Despite your participation in the United Nations General Assembly and at the Talinn European Summit, and despite the fact that September is indeed a month in which traditionally many international events are taking place, I would remind you that the government must be sufficiently represented to be able to respond to the requests made by Members of Parliament and to ensure that the work of the Chamber is carried out properly. On behalf of the Conference of Presidents, I ask you, like the members of your government, to increase availability in the coming weeks so that our assembly can carry out its work as well as possible." On behalf of the Conference of Presidents, I ask you, as well as the members of your Government, to be more available in the coming weeks so that our Assembly can do its work as best as possible."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u16	Mr President, on behalf of my group, and I assume that the other opposition groups will be able to associate themselves with it, I would like to thank you for your initiative. We are moved because more than a year ago we decided unanimously, majority and opposition, to resume our work earlier and to be, as soon as the classes are back in school, on 1 September, at work, whether in committee or in plenary. Last year, we could imagine that it was the "heat tower". This year, we had the experience and we had to be able to be effective sooner. It was a commitment made by all. Unfortunately, I had to see – and I was not the only one – in the Conference of Presidents that this was not the case. If we look at the committees, I think a number of them could have been active long before. There are bills on the table, and if the government lacks plans, it's no big deal because we're here. And we have the will to carry out our executive oversight mission. That is why we are meeting this afternoon on topical issues. I understand that the government has international obligations, which I obviously do not dispute. But it's a lot: six ministers are absent, it's a bad kind of thing. I wanted to underline the cooperation you have shown, Mr President, by "calling for order" the government, which must be present and which must respect Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u17	Mr President, thank you for writing to the government, calling on them to do so. After all, it really cannot go on like this. It is not just this week that six members of the government are absent. We have looked again at how many ministers were absent from the previous meetings. Between 18 May and July, at least four to five members of the government were absent on Thursdays. The agreement must be that ministers will keep the Thursday open for the meeting here in Parliament. I am even more outraged by the fact that on 6 September we received an overview of the absences in September. On 20 September the absence of ministers Reynders and De Block was announced. I think it is correct to know in advance who is absent, but now I hear the Prime Minister's spokesman say that Belgium has committed itself and wants to seek a non-permanent seat on the UN Security Council. The ministers are campaigning hard in New York. That's their credit, but you can't tell me that those excellencies on September 6 didn't know they'd be in New York on September 20th. The same applies to Minister Peeters, who apparently is currently in South Korea. Mr President, can we not make the agreement that we can get a final list of absences at least four weeks in advance, especially before Thursday's sitting? That can't be so hard, can it? The agreement is that we are here on Thursday. There may always be exceptions, but I would like to know a few weeks in advance and not the evening before the questions are asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u18	Mrs Wouters, I can tell you that there was unanimity within the Conference of Presidents about the fact that this is not the ideal way of working and that this therefore requires change and, in particular, improvement. I think that what is happening now is a point of departure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u19	Mr President, I am glad to hear that there was unanimity in the Conference of Presidents. Of course, it would also be helpful if you would let those who are not members of the Conference know what has been decided in the Conference and what agreements have been made, whether they can work in a proper way. The absences of excellence today obviously also affect Question Time in the near future. [[Before I received the official lists of absences yesterday afternoon, I based myself on the list of 6 September for the submission of my questions.]] My question about the situation in Catalonia was addressed to the Prime Minister. This morning I was informed that Minister Bacquelaine will answer that question. I asked you to apply the rule that is always applied in practice when the Prime Minister turns out to be absent, namely: a Deputy Prime Minister answers that question. My question is not about Catalan pensions, although it would undoubtedly be an interesting debate, with all due respect to Mr Bacquelaine, but I do not think this is serious. All I ask is that the Deputy Prime Minister who is present should answer my question, as is customary in practice. I know that you will tell me that it is for the government to indicate who answers to a particular question. That is true, but it is up to you as President-in-Office to ensure that this happens in a serious way. What's ahead now, I think, is ridicul. You must not make fun of Parliament. I respect this institution and do my job with all due respect, but it is Parliament here and not Ikea's ball pool.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Pas. Mr Vuye, you are asking to speak on the same subject, I presume?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u21	Mr President, I would indeed like to speak on the same subject. You know that I have also put a question to you. In the absence of these many excellences, I addressed my question to Deputy Prime Minister Jan Jambon. I expressly mentioned this in the absence of the Prime Minister and the other Deputy Prime Ministers. My question is also about the events and the referendum in Catalonia and not about the Catalans' pension. It would be nice if the Deputy Prime Minister would answer my question. After all, it is a rule or, rather, a practice that, when a Deputy Prime Minister is absent, he or she is replaced by a Minister of his Party. However, it is not the case that one can play carom and leave a question to the Prime Minister to an ordinary minister. A Prime Minister is, normally, replaced here in plenary by the Deputy Prime Minister. I would very much like to put my question to Mr Jambon. I know that, unlike Mr Bacquelaine, he has some knowledge of this matter. Mr. Jambon is going to Catalonia. Mr Jambon spoke about Catalonia. Mr Jambon has even said that Catalonia is worth a government crisis. So Mr Jambon could answer my question perfectly. In your capacity as President of the Chamber, you should not decide on your own. We live here in a democracy. You must also answer to the MPs. So I'd like to get a statement from you. If you give me an explanation that Deputy Prime Minister Jambon is afraid to answer the question, I will accept that statement. After all, that is the right explanation. Nevertheless, I would like to know why it is that suddenly the Minister of Pensions is also specialised in Catalan matters, and how is it that a Deputy Prime Minister, who makes such spectacular statements about Catalonia outside the hemisphere, does not dare to answer a question here in the hemisphere?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u22	Mr Vuye and Mr Pas, allow me to make two general comments. This is not a new problem. This is something we regularly experience, and of course we always remember that the answers given by the members of the government are given on behalf of the whole government and that the government is one and indivisible. Having said that, I am trying to take a substantive line. When I see that there are major problems within the government, it is the Prime Minister who answers. By the way, according to a calculation made a few months ago, 67 percent of the questions were answered by the Prime Minister in this legislature. That's a historic record. In this respect, the Prime Minister does not lack good will. In the other case, we apply the rule that the Minister responsible must reply. The Minister responsible is also a Deputy Prime Minister in this, incidentally coincidentally. The rule is also that if the Deputy Prime Minister is not there the answer is given in his name by someone from the same party. That is the tradition we apply. And so I decided this morning that this answer should actually be given by the Minister responsible, Minister Reynders, and in the absence of Minister Bacquelaine. So much for the answer. This is, once again, a discussion that is not new. So we will not unnecessarily prolong them either. You will have another reply, Mr Vuye.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u23	I'd believe I'd get the floor. It would still be wrong, to be honest. What you do is actually play carom. You shouldn't nod nod nod nod nod nod nod nod nod nod nod nod nod noe noe noe noe noe noe noe noe noe noe noe noe noe noe noe noe noe You are replacing an absent Prime Minister with an equally absent Deputy Prime Minister, while another Deputy Prime Minister is present. You'll end up with the Minister of Pensions. That's impossible, isn't it? Surely you cannot replace the absent Prime Minister with an equally absent Deputy Prime Minister? That's impossible, isn't it? You fill a void with a void and you reach Mr. Bacquelaine. That's what you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u24	The most important thing, Mr Vuye, is for an answer to be given on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u25	Mr President, it is worse than I thought. We already knew that you're a regiment mop who does what this government tells you to do. You are defending what the government is saying, even if it allows a certain Secretary of State to reply, who does not have much knowledge in this matter. You're defending all these decisions. However, what you are saying here today is that you made that decision yourself. You're actually making it worse. It is in your intention that it lacks respect for Parliament. If that is the tone that will be set this parliamentary year, then that is promising.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u26	The plenary session of 1 June 2017 refers to the letter of 12 May 2017 in which the Chair of the Assembly of the French Community Commission sends the text of a motion of censure adopted by the Assembly on 12 May 2017 concerning a conflict of interest referred to in Article 32 (1) (a) of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions. The plenary session of 1 June 2017 refers to the letter of 12 May 2017 by which the President of the Assembly of the French Community Commission forwards the text of a motion adopted by the Assembly on 12 May 2017, concerning a conflict of interest as defined by Article 32, § 1a, of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reforms. The conflict of interest concerns the draft law on the harmonisation of periods of study to be taken into account for the calculation of the pension, No. 2378/1. The conflict of interest concerns the draft law on the harmonization of the inclusion of periods of study in the calculation of pensions, No. 2378/1. The consultations between the delegation of the Chamber of Representatives and the delegation of the Assembly of the French Community Commission took place on 10 July 2017. The consultation between the delegation of the House of Representatives and the delegation of the Assembly of the French Community Commission took place on 10 July 2017. Since the consultations did not lead to a solution, the President of the Chamber, by letter dated 12 July 2017, referred the conflict of interest to the Senate in accordance with Article 32 (1) of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reform, as amended by the law of 16 June 1989 and the special law of 7 May 1999. As the conciliation did not lead to a solution, the President of the Chamber referred the conflict of interest to the Senate by letter of 12 July 2017, pursuant to Article 32, § 1quater, of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reforms, as amended by the law of 16 June 1989 and the special law of 7 May 1999. By letter dated 4 September 2017, the President of the Senate stated that, at its plenary session of 1 September 2017, the Senate issued a reasoned opinion on the conflict of interest concerning the draft law on the harmonisation of periods of study for the calculation of the pension, pursuant to Article 32, § 1quater, paragraph 1, of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reform. By letter dated September 4, 2017, the President of the Senate informed the Senate that the Senate had issued a reasoned opinion, during its plenary session of September 1, 2017, on the conflict of interest concerning the draft law on the harmonization of the taking into account of study periods for the calculation of the pension, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 32, § 1 quater, of the ordinary law of August 9, 1980 on institutional reforms. By letter dated 8 September 2017, the Prime Minister stated that: - the Consultation Committee, at its meeting of 6 September 2017, has dealt with the conflict of interest pursuant to Article 32, § 1quater, paragraph 1, of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reform; - the Consultation Committee has taken note of the fact that the consultations have taken place and that there has been no consensus. By letter dated September 8, 2017, the Prime Minister communicated that: - the Conciliation Committee dealt with the conflict of interest under the first paragraph of Article 32(1) of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reforms; - the Consultation Committee took note of the fact that the consultation took place and found that there was no consensus. Colleagues, in practice, that actually means that we are getting this draft back to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u27	I have received amendments to the draft law on the harmonization of periods of study for the calculation of the pension, Nos 2378/1 to 8. I have received amendments to the bill on the harmonization of the consideration of periods of study in the calculation of pensions, Nos. 2378/1 to 8. I propose that the bill be sent back to the Social Affairs Committee in order to discuss these amendments. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee for consideration of these amendments. The draft law will be debated in plenary today, after discussion of the amendments in committee. Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendments in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u28	Mr President, I propose that the committee be convened in plenary in order to deal with the amendments tabled by the majority and the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u29	Mr. Chair, I have just tabled amendments to this bill. I would like them to be sent back to committee as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u30	It's obvious, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u31	Mr President, we should not have to put them back in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u32	No, we will deal with the majority opposition amendments. I also propose that the committee be convened directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u33	Mr President, we have topical issues. Therefore, as an alternative, I propose that we meet after the topical issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u34	Mrs Fonck, I understand very well the practical problem. You have an oral question to ask and you also participate in the work of the committee. So we have to see what we can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u35	Mr President, I understand, of course, that if there are any members of our committee who have questions to the government, they must be able to ask them. So let us first deal with the questions and, since there are no members of our committee involved in the last questions, then convene the committee, so that they go as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u36	You have the documents for you. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u37	We first have the questions to the ministers Jambon and Bacquelaine. I propose that we convene the committee when the questions to Minister Van Overtveld begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u38	No objection? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Theo Francken has invited people from the Sudanese regime to our country to identify Sudanese refugees. We must be careful on important issues. We were very clear yesterday. The cartoon that has appeared is far beyond it. We distance ourselves from that, too. Everyone has to be very clear. Sudan is one of the worst human rights violations in the world. The country fits in with the list of North Korea and Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u40	May I ask the technical service to strengthen the sound?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u41	Mr President, I repeat the essence. Let everyone be as clear as we were yesterday. Sudan is one of the worst human rights violations, alongside North Korea and Syria. Opponents are arrested and tortured. While dictator Omar al-Bashir is wanted by the International Criminal Court, his accomplices are invited to our territory by Theo Francken. Dat is never seen. That has never happened before, ladies and gentlemen. In this way, Belgium is helping to prosecute political opponents against the dictatorship in Sudan. We therefore invite the regime for which these people themselves are fleeing. What's Theo Francken up to? We are already working with the Turkish dictator Erdogan and with Libyan militias, and now we are threatening to extradite political opponents of the dictatorship, with a bow around it, to agents of al-Bashir. What's next? It is an unscrupulous approach. It doesn't match our standards and values. Democratic opponents of dictatorships should be protected, not betrayed. Theo Francken is no longer reasonable. He's making a serious political mistake. That cannot be without consequences for us. We call for the Sudanese mission to be terminated immediately and for the regime's agents to pack their bags and be put on the first plane to Sudan. The question arises, Mr Vice Prime Minister, you speak on behalf of the government, on behalf of the Prime Minister, whether the government will follow us in this? Or will it maintain the decision of Theo Francken, with all the consequences for the Sudanese refugees and indeed for the image of our country? We are democrats, we must implement our own asylum legislation and we do not need the help of dictators.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u42	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by quoting a well-known Belgian historian who yesterday, with his right words, met my anger and indignation. Hervé Hasquin has expressed what I hope all the democrats in this House think very low, even if they do not dare to express it aloud. I quote: "Repatriating refugees to a bloody dictatorship reminds me of the Vichy regime. This must encourage us to be very vigilant. We must remember what can happen to human beings when they are sent back into despicable regimes." Yes, our country is now collaborating, thanks to Mr. Francken, with a country whose head of State is a dictator accused by the International Criminal Court of genocide and war crimes against humanity. We are collaborating to screen women and men who have fled this dictatorship. And for what? To better welcome them, we are told. I'd say it's for a better pick when they get back. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Theo Francken no longer has the dignity and responsibility of a politician. He deliberately abandoned the situation on the ground. He let her get worse so he could say after we had to clean up. "Cleaning", as if human beings, these women and men in despair, were waste! We're going even further. We collaborate – and I weigh my words – with a country whose president is a genocidary. I know that the current situation is extremely complicated. We have not known at home or in Europe such an influx of refugees for a long time. We must face this situation, and we must face it with dignity and responsibility, without angelism of course, but without demonization either. Always respecting humanity! Always by respecting each human being, examining, respecting the rules of law and individually, applications, accepting or refusing them, but in compliance with international conventions. Here, officials of a dictatorship are called upon. Some NGOs even speak of members of the secret services. That's unworthy! It is unworthy of a democracy! It is unworthy of a rule of law! Do you support the decision to work with the Sudan to examine the situation of the Sudanese who fled their country? Was this decision made by the government as a whole? Were Foreign Affairs involved? Were the Belgian intelligence services involved in the procedure put in place? Is it true that they ensured that the Sudanese secret services were not present in the delegation received by Mr. Franken? If so, when were they? What allowed this negotiation with a dictator just six months ago, Mr. Franken himself explained that this was precisely what made it impossible to return illegals from Sudan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u43	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, other questions will allow me to return to the deplorable and scandalous situation which the government has allowed itself to settle, particularly at Maximilian Park, by neglecting any accompanying measures for the refugee or migrant candidates present there. A report prepared at the request of the Minister of Health of the Brussels Region, Didier Gosuin, notes the occurrence of tuberculosis among these people. Given the seriousness of this disease and its resurgence in our territory, it is outrageous that a government should not take the necessary preventive measures. But from the point of view of principles, the case we are concerned about here is still quite different. No one can ignore the situation of the rogue State of Sudan and the warnings of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. When I hear some members of the majority say that the agreement with Sudan is totally legal, I wonder whether they are familiar with international treaties as well as the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the Aliens Litigation Council in Belgium. This summer, on 17 July, the Council issued a decision in principle concerning the Sudan. This decision is clearly based on a case of removal annulled because "the general situation in the Sudan as such appears to be sufficiently serious to establish a risk of inhuman or degrading treatment in the event of expulsion of the complainant to his country of origin, in violation of article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights". The general situation, therefore, is all cases of expulsion that are, in this way, rejected by the Litigation Council in view of the dramatic situation in the Sudan. I expect only one answer to a single question: will the government respect international conventions and nullify the agreement reached by Mr Franken alone – perhaps – with Sudan and his embassy and finally respect the rule of law? It is time that the government no longer content itself, Prime Minister, to reframe in particular a Secretary of State. It is time to restore its dignity to our policy of welcoming refugee candidates and migrants, in compliance with our international obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u44	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we learn of the agreement between Belgium and Sudan, of which we know the terrible regime, its atrocities and the failure to respect human rights, many of us have been shocked. Unlike others, my reaction is neither insult nor excess. For the insult only strengthens in fine the one who is the target of it. It diverts the eyes from what is essential, that is, these men, women and children who have fled the horror, inhuman conditions of Maximilian Park and the passivity of the federal authorities to this health situation. The Sudanese regime and also Mr. Franken are well known. When these two enter into an agreement without any transparency, there is reason to worry: it is as if the devil were pacting with the devil! Mr Deputy Prime Minister, is there a written agreement between Sudan and Belgium? What is the content? Was it concluded through a government mandate? Has it been endorsed by the government as a whole? What is the role of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his conclusion? Who are the Sudanese agents who arrived in Belgium? What is the exact content of this agreement and the benchmarks that I hope have been provided for? Mr President, you know that there is a duty of transparency in Parliament. I therefore ask you, like the Deputy Prime Minister, to be able here to have the full and complete written agreement – I imagine there is one – between Sudan and Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u45	Minister, we have learned with great fear this collaboration with the Sudanese authorities. I'm trying to put myself in the shoes of so many families and of what they live. They leave Sudan because of persecution and the situation on the ground, and our Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very clear about this: "General security. Country: Sudan. The risk of insecurity is widespread in the Sudan. In these circumstances, non-essential travel in most parts of the country is not recommended." On the side of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is very clear: dangerous countries! These people are leaving the country. They're going through a desert. They cross the sea with all the danger we know, at the risk of their lives. They go back to Europe, hidden in vans, etc. They arrive at Maximilian Park and there they are welcomed by whom? The diet squirrels who will sort them out. This is what this government is putting in place today, Minister! This is really serious, and I think we need to ask this question: what is the existing dignity in our reception policy? The fact that it was a dictatorship was not really denied by Mr Franken himself. Francken clearly responded to an interview in April 2017. He was talking about these famous agreements that existed with other countries. He spoke of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and then he said: "But some negotiations are impossible, as with Iran or Sudan because they are dictatorships." Mr Franken, Secretary of State, said clearly: "These are dictatorships. We can't make deals." And a few months later, he's negotiating agreements here with Sudan. My questions are very clear, minister. On the one hand, what is the exact nature of the collaboration with Sudan? Can we have the texts to know exactly what it's about? On the other hand, Mr Franken said: "This method of work is not new and has been used several times." As far as the method of work is concerned, therefore, it is the presence in Belgium of people who represent the Sudanese State and I am not talking here about a collaboration with the embassies. I'm talking about this method of work. Can you answer us? With which other countries is this type of work method applied? Finally, do you think that this is the way to properly implement the Geneva Convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u46	Mr President, Minister, a few days ago, a controversy – one more – arose over the situation of illegal migrants in Maximilian Park and the cooperation maintained by our administrative services and the Sudanese administrative services. The police intervened on several occasions on the spot and found that approximately 160 persons were in an illegal situation. These people found themselves in a closed centre before being sent back to their country of origin. The competent authorities have informed these people of the possibility of applying for asylum in our country. This has not been done because, for the most part, these people want to go to England for their own reasons. A Sudanese delegation has therefore come to our country to help identify these people without an identity document. A colleague asked what made it possible to do so. International agreements have been in place for three years. They are called the Khartoum Process and were consolidated by a summit in Valletta in November 2015. At the end of the Summit, specific partnerships were established. These agreements are operated not only in Belgium but also in France, the Netherlands, Norway, Germany, Sweden and Italy. Minister, nearly 160 people have been sent back to the closed centre. What is the status of the process of identifying these illegal individuals in our territory? How many of them have applied for asylum on Belgian territory since they were in a closed centre? How many were expelled? What is the exact scope of cooperation between Belgium and the Sudanese authorities? What services did the Sudanese delegation come to Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u47	Mr Hellings has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u48	You're up for a caricature! You should stand up whenever human rights are violated in this country and elsewhere! As my colleague Wouter De Vriendt has just said, this caricature is indeed excessive, indeed terrible. But it is a deformed mirror of policies and trash communications. I want to talk here about Mr. Theo Francken's policies. Which democracy subcontracts its asylum policy to a dictatorship? Not my democracy, not the democracy of the Greens, but your democracy! A member of the government boasts of inviting and welcoming the shirks of a dictatorial regime, namely the Omar al-Bashir regime. Why? To identify in our closed centres, in Maximilian Park, Sudanese who have precisely fled this dictatorship. This very Omar al-Bashir – an exceptional fact – is the only head of state in office today to be under two arrest warrants of the International Criminal Court for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, while our country, represented by our Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, is in the midst of a campaign at the UN for a position in the Security Council, a guarantor of human rights at the international level. What a shame! Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you two questions. Is there a police cooperation agreement between Belgium and Sudan? If so, can you provide us with a copy? Does the government take the initiative of the Secretary of State to collaborate with the dictatorship of Omar al-Bashir?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u49	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this week it was proudly announced that a Sudanese delegation would assist the Belgian police in the biggest identification mission in this country, dixit...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u50	(The N-VA fraction takes its place in the hemisphere.)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u51	Mrs. De Coninck, would you mind taking a break so everyone can take their seats?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u52	Mr President, I will start again. At the beginning of this week it was proudly announced that a Sudanese delegation would help the Belgian police with the biggest identification mission, dixit Theo Francken. The fact that foreign governments provide aid is not so exceptional. However, we have questions about cooperation with Sudan. The Sudanese presidential dictator al-Bashir was effectively subpoenaed by the International Criminal Court on charges of crimes against humanity. Many Sudanese flee Sudan for fear of persecution and torture. They come here, they ask for help and protection, and we ask for help from that torture regime to identify people who are fleeing that regime. The central question here is whether the end justifies all means. What is the lower limit of the decency of our migration policy? What is the lower limit of decency for Belgium? Admit it, what is Belgium's image for the outside world? We are friends with Saudi Arabia, we are friends with Kazakhstan, we are friends with Azerbaijan and now we are friends with Sudan! And then we have the nerve to go to New York with four ministers to lobby for a place in the Security Council! Speaking of hypocrisy! Secondly, what about the safety of the people who are being returned? Is it guaranteed? A number of references have already been made to a European rule which states that it is necessary to check that safety can be guaranteed for people who are sent back to their country. I asked Theo Francken a written question on this subject about Afghanistan. He replied very explicitly at that time that it is always necessary to check whether security is guaranteed, whether someone is applying for asylum or not. I have the following questions. What guarantees are there that this will be done? How will this be followed up by the Belgian embassy? Mrs Fonck has already asked whether a memorandum has been concluded with Sudan. Then show us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u53	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, from my personal experience I would like to inform the Chamber that there are many ungrateful aspects of asylum and migration policy. There is an end to this whole policy, and that is called return policy. This means that, if people are found illegally on the territory or are rejected when dealing with their individual asylum application, they must be repatriated to their country of origin if necessary. I speak of ungrateful because we have a double morale there. It also exists in public opinion. I was often told to be hard on the expulsion policy until the illegal person got a face. Then one stood up for the illegal of one's own neighborhood, one's own neighborhood, one's own municipality. For the rest, however, one had to be tough. I am telling you this because, in the end, return policy is always the weak link in the chain, Mr De Vriendt. If one cannot pursue a return policy, then the circle is not complete. Then what is the point of dealing with procedures if the person concerned can ultimately stay in our country? I'm coming to Sudan. I hear all kinds of things about Sudan, and I can agree with them, but there is no collective right to asylum at the moment when one comes from Sudan. One is subject to individual procedures. I would like to make it quite clear that this is regulated by the Geneva Convention and the Dublin Agreements, which make it very clear which rules to follow. If these procedures are not followed, they are automatically regarded as illegal in the territory. If one has to be repatriated where appropriate, this implies that the country of origin must want to identify the person concerned. One can never repatriate someone if the country of origin does not identify. This means that we are making all kinds of agreements with regimes, Mr De Vriendt, which cannot all stand the test of democracy. That is the reality. I come to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. I would like to make it very clear that I think he is covered by the government for the substance of the matter he is taking up. That is my question and the Deputy Prime Minister will have to answer it. I also say very clearly: if one has to perform such a delicate task, then why unnecessarily provoke and polarize on Twitter and so on? I hear and hear from a good source that countries like Germany, France and you name it, do exactly the same as our country. I would just like to say to Mr Francken that his style is indeed not ours. That is what has been said here before. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say something, and you may deduct it from my reply, because if I get an answer to the question I have asked, I am actually satisfied. For what I saw yesterday as an image of Mr Francken, I only have one word:disgusting. This is horrible, it is not done. That's diabolication, that's stigmatization. It is not enough, Mr De Vriendt or my fellow Members from Ecolo, to say that they regret this. Have you seen the response of the Jewish community in our country? With the appearance of such an image one gets the banalization of the abomination of Auschwitz, the banalization of the Holocaust. With regard to Asylum and Migration, I would argue for serenity. We have a humane and just asylum policy. I said what I had to say about Mr Francken's style. Yesterday's, even though it comes from an Ecolo youth department, that's beyond the boundaries, that's past decency. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u54	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when asylum seekers are recognised, we expect them to integrate and seek employment. In that case, our country should also offer them every opportunity to do so. Anyone who does not apply for asylum and is illegally present in our country must know that he or she is at risk of being expelled. And if we do so, we will do so in accordance with international law and in accordance with human rights. We do not, however, do so if there is a danger to the integrity of the people. Then we act in a humane manner and with caution. For a country such as Sudan, where leaders have to answer to the International Criminal Court, we do so with double caution. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the government informed those involved in the Maximilian Park about the possibilities they had, including the possibility of applying for asylum. That was important. How can we improve that? After all, some have not taken up this possibility. How can we convince them? What can we do with those who refuse to accept it? Ladies and gentlemen, no one here in the assembly wants a second Calais. Then what are our options? Identification may be inevitable. First of all, it is those involved themselves who can help us in this. A mission of a country of origin is a technique that has already been applied here and also in other countries. However, where appropriate, how can we give procedural guarantees to those concerned themselves, in the sense that their families, who have been left behind, can also live there safely? This means that the Belgian State, in particular the Foreign Affairs Office, runs and controls the identification procedure. For us, this could also be done with the cooperation of international institutions. How can we strengthen and improve these guarantees on the basis of our experience and respect for international law? If an expulsion, with respect for international law, would be inevitable, then we must act correctly but also communicate humanly. In this respect, the Secretary of State's tweet testified that there was insufficient respect for people. And that is no less true of the communication there by the youth section of an opposition party. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, how can we even better inform those involved? How can we convince them to start an asylum procedure after all? How can we give further guarantees of respect for human rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u55	Mr President, Minister, we have finally begun to clean up the Maximilian park. The Secretary of State was right when he said it had to be cleaned up. You may be able to explain to us today why he had to be reprimanded by the Prime Minister. You might also be able to explain to us why he even crawled through the dust and apologized for it. That's not entirely clear to me. After all, cleaning up was urgently needed. As far as cartoon is concerned, as has already been said here, all decency is indeed over. I share the justified indignation of my fellow Members, but I note that there was no such indignation and is not every time Members of my party are depicted in a similar way. Mr. Secretary, that clean-up was urgently needed. I notice that all the parties are here today to question you about the Maximilian Park, but two months ago I was the only one here to question you about that condition. There was already an increasing number of camping transit migrants in the Maximilian Park. All this time it remained with checks and an oral request to leave the park, on which the people disappeared for a while, but then came back. Meanwhile, the number only increased, with all the risks associated with it. Reference has been made to the illegals who may have been infected with tuberculosis and mange. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, why has it taken so long before one finally intervenes? Secondly, 193 illegal immigrants are now locked up in a closed centre. Can you clarify what happened to the hundreds of others? Where did they go? How many people have been taken in, as the Secretary of State stated? What will happen to them? Can you clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have said many times in this hemisphere, and I repeat that I, and with me the whole government, will never allow conditions like the jungle in Calais on our territory. Never! How's the fork in the handle? For several months now, a group of illegal migrants have settled in and around Maximilian Park, close to the Gare du Nord in Brussels. Their aim is to join the United Kingdom. They have therefore not applied for asylum in Belgium and therefore cannot be considered as asylum seekers and benefit from the assistance granted to them. The Government has implemented a comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach: on the one hand, to carry out information and prevention activities and, on the other hand, to ensure the maintenance of public order. The situation in the park and around it is monitored on a daily basis and measures and approaches are changed as the situation changes. Fedasil and the Foreign Office first visited the field and informed them of their rights, obligations and, in particular, of the possibility of applying for asylum or, conversely, of taking advantage of a voluntary return procedure to their country of origin. They have also been informed of all the consequences of their illegal stay in our country, including the possibility of a forced return. A total of 645 people were interviewed in and around the park from June to today. The focus of police action was in September, when a total of 267 people were intercepted in illegal residence. Of these 267 persons, 134 were transferred to a closed centre, and 59 unaccompanied minors were offered shelter by Fedasil. The FGP of the federal police was also very actively involved in the approach. It focused specifically on addressing the network of smugglers. I would like to stress this point. Those smugglers are the reason those asylum seekers arrive in Brussels and continue to wait for transit to the United Kingdom. If we tackle this problem firmly, we will do so, and we will also solve it, a large part of the problem will be lost. I cannot give more details about the FGP's actions, because this is covered by the secret of the investigation. As regards the specific situation of persons of Sudanese origin, 103 Sudanese nationals are currently in the various closed centres for illegal immigrants, following the various police actions in the Maximilian Park and at the Brussels-North station. Those persons were always able to apply for asylum from their arrival in Belgium. Given the difficulties encountered in identifying persons of Sudanese origin and since forced return can only be organised on the basis of a precise identification of the person, it has been decided to contact the Sudanese Embassy. It is crucial, especially in the current context in which we live, to identify who is on our territory. Following two meetings between the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Theo Francken, and the Sudanese Ambassador in Belgium, an identification mission was decided to take place. The Foreign Affairs Department regularly uses identification missions. In recent years, there have been delegations from Senegal, China, Guinea, Armenia and Vietnam. This practice, which is not exceptional, exists in other Member States. France conducted such a mission with Sudan in February of this year, which led to the issuance of some 30 laissez-passer. In addition, France, Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Sweden and Norway have, in recent years, carried out forced returns to the Sudan. In addition, Sudan is an important partner country for the EU on migration management and is also one of the main beneficiaries of EU grants released for this purpose. Procedural guarantees are respected. These people can still apply for asylum even after the pass is issued. They also have the possibility of bringing an action against their removal. All this is done with full respect for national, European and international law. In its decision, the Office of Foreigners examines the potential risk of expulsion under Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which prohibits inhuman and degrading treatment. Despite this complex situation, the government continues to devote particular attention to vulnerable people, who can benefit from reception via the Samusocial. They were informed by Fedasil in particular. Unaccompanied minor aliens are accommodated in an observation and guidance centre with the necessary supervision. The guardianship service of the SPF Justice is thus associated with the various actions, in order to ensure the care of these minors. I would like to conclude with the message that I and the entire government remain one man behind the policy of our Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u57	Mr President, first I would like to comment on the incident with the N-VA Group. I would like to say to colleagues that both Green and Ecolo have been very clear and have distanced themselves from the cartoon. So what we have just seen from the N-VA Group is actually a political game, political theatre. Mr Dewael's reaction, on the other hand, is also ours. It is a pity that a group here in Parliament does not want to listen to the arguments against cooperation between our country and Sudan. This does not mean that we are having a debate on our asylum legislation. Those who are not entitled to asylum in Belgium must return. However, Minister, the fact that there are Sudanese people in the Maximilian Park who are not sufficiently informed about their right to asylum in Belgium is particularly problematic. I have pamphlets from your administration, which are distributed there and only talk about return and not a single word about asylum procedures. This means that in that group there are political opponents of the regime in the Maximilian Park who are not sufficiently informed and are not given the opportunity to apply for asylum. They have now been declared outlawed by the Belgian Government's cooperation with the Sudanese regime. That is the immense risk the Belgian Government is taking here. Finally, I am surprised that you refer to France as an example. You say that France has already carried out such an identification mission. I can formally contradict you. Colleagues, what has happened in France is that Paris has sought cooperation with the Sudanese Embassy in Paris. However, there has been no mention at any time of strangers flying from Khartoum, secret agents, to identify refugees in France. Belgium is unique in this and this is particularly problematic. The debate is not closed for us. We will continue with this. We put our standards and values at risk if we hand democratic opponents of a dictatorship over to agents of the regime. The debate is not over for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is disgusting is xenophobia, racism, bloody dictatorships, to collaborate with dictatorships. That's what's disgusting! It's not resistance that's disgusting. Even if it expresses itself inappropriately and inappropriately, resistance is never disgusting. [[Tumult]] If Mr. President could let me speak? Maybe soon we won't be able to! As I came to this rostrum earlier, I was animated by the indignation of a member of the government. But I was also driven by this flame that burns in me for this assembly, which is composed mostly of democrats and people who believe in the foundations of our democracy. I am appalled by some words. I am appalled by certain attitudes. By your silence, you are complicit in those who, week after week, are taking their feet on our democracy. Prove the opposite, dismiss Mr Franken from this government and restore dignity to our rule of law!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u59	Mr President, I have not heard a majority speaker have the courage to respond to Mr Hervé Hasquin. Ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, if you had been logical, when the MR representative came up to the gallery, you should have come out. Hervé Hasquin is one of the great consciences of Francophone liberalism. A little logic! You should be deeply offended by Hervé Hasquin's particularly cunning words. For, to see it well, his speech is even more crazy than the clumsy caricature of young people who, on the other hand, do not have a great audience, while Hervé Hasquin, on the other hand, has an audience; he, on the other hand, has a reputation; he, on the other hand, has respect for the liberal circles which still have the meaning of liberalism in the philosophical sense. So, when Hervé Hasquin says, "Remember Vichy," what does he mean as a history lesson? That everything always begins with cowardice and that abandoning democratic principles is always an attitude of cowardice. And cowardice, in this case, is to invoke that of others to exonerate themselves from his. It's never very dignified. Of course, you may find other states where cowardice is also going on, unfortunately. But cowardice, in the end, is sheltering itself behind artifices that are not even legally based but are pure procedures. These unfortunate people have not even yet applied for political asylum, which they are told: "Ah, in these conditions, there is no way out but to expel them." No, that is not political courage. That is not respect for the rule of law. Respect for the rule of law is the observance of international conventions that say that we do not expel to states where democracy is not respected. That's what we're waiting for and that's what Hervé Hasquin reminded you! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u60	Deputy Prime Minister, this is not just an agreement between administrative departments. You have a secretary of state who, in big pumps, by getting photographed, has reached an agreement with the ambassador. The ambassador is the representative of the President, the dictator of Sudan. Of course, you did not answer any questions you were asked about the agreement, about a written agreement that may also have been reached in cooperation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Nothing! No data. No content. No guarantee, obviously. It is true that there have already been identification missions with a whole series of states but, never, with a country like Sudan, never with a dictatorship. For us, such an agreement with a dictatorship without clearly identified guarantees is totally unacceptable. There must be a guarantee that the evicted persons will not be put to death until they have returned to the Sudan. It must also be ensured that the families of those identified in our home who live in the Sudan are not subjected to retaliatory measures. Mr President, I heard the Prime Minister in New York say how unacceptable the "Trump" style was, which he denounced. And he was right. But what the Prime Minister accepts here is the same, within his own government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u61	"None of the Contracting States shall expel or return in any manner whatsoever a refugee to the borders of the territories where his life or freedom would be threatened because of his race, religion, nationality, membership of a certain social group or political opinions." Article 33 of the Geneva Convention is very clear. Of course, the fact that some refugee candidates do not apply is no reason to expel them. It's totally illegal. The Geneva Convention is very clear: it is not a condition. But here, it is worse: you ask why these people do not dare to submit their application, whereas right next to the Belgian official is a representative of the state they are fleeing, that is, Sudan. How do you want these people to trust – they've been running away for weeks – when our country is collaborating with this Sudanese dictatorship? Mr Minister, we expected on your part a clear and clear desire for a break, for Belgium to resume its tradition of solidarity and democracy. Secondly, the clean-up debate. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Francken is playing a dirty game. You know that very well! When he uses "cleaning" in a tweet, you know very well that he is playing with fire because it feeds racist feelings and refers to cleaning up people. You know that. When you read that tweet, you know that polemics are deliberately provoked. You are playing a dangerous game because by divisiveness in our society is played with human lives. That is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore time to stop saying to this Secretary of State who is playing with fire and sowing hatred in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, enough hysteria! I'm not the one who says it, but Mr. From Smet, director of Myria. Let's get back to the bottom! I am referring to the rules of a rule of law such as Belgium, international treaties and conventions. I am astonished by the interventions of some, who may be pretending not to know them. I recall that in 2015, the European and African States agreed to sign agreements including cooperation in terms of identifying non-ID card holders. It is these international agreements that can help us solve this problem, but perhaps this is what some here do not want... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u63	Mr. President... It's nice. Our N-VA colleagues must have a pain in their knees. Deputy Prime Minister, you spoke of pragmatism. Mr. Pivin, you said we had to get back to the bottom. I'll give it to you. Now, the bottom of it, we're touching it! As Democrats, we cannot tolerate our police working with Sudanese police to identify Sudanese migrants. The same Sudanese police are accused of crimes against humanity and genocide. In Maximilian Park, Mr. Jambon, the federal state is failing. Today, it is associations and volunteers who contribute to restoring their human dignity to these women, men and children. The only thing this government is doing in this park is sending police officers to pay a dictator that these people are fleeing precisely. It's not human, it's not democratic. It is indeed time to clean up the asylum policy in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u64	Mr President, Mr Pivin, Mr Dewael, for the record, we are not opposed to a return policy, nor are we opposed to identification missions, but we want this to be done humanely and that Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights is respected and that we are therefore looking into returning to a safe situation. But I would like to make a comment about the communication style of our Secretary of State. He often does it: great explanations, great deterrent, through communication make it clear that one should no longer go to that Maximilian park. The people who don't trust it won't go on, they'll go somewhere else. I think that in the long term you will have a bigger problem than today, with your façade policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u65	Mr President, I am going to repeat briefly from my couch, because I fundamentally disagree with Mr Maingain. Mr Maingain has given the impression here that, on the basis of the Geneva Convention, there would be something like a collective right to asylum. The Geneva Convention is based on individual applications, each application is examined individually by the asylum authorities, with opportunities for appeal. It is therefore not possible to say that there is no democracy in a particular country and so we are going to give all the inhabitants of that country the collective right to asylum. That's not how it works in a state of law. If one tries to create a different impression, one throws the people in the eyes. There are no degrees in dictatorships either. I heard a Green Minister, Mrs Aelvoet, refer to Nepal as a "April democracy'. I remember the asylum crisis that we had to face from Congo. That was when I was Minister of the Interior, in a government with a different composition than today's government. Is Congo a democracy? Does that mean that no identifications can be carried out there? Yes, I did, because I travelled to Congo, with the government's permission, to be able to repatriate precisely the people who were illegally in our country from Congo. The Geneva Convention remains, for me, the cornerstone of the policy, and I should like to make this quite clear, but if we ignore the possibility of applying for asylum, if we deliberately say that we do not want to use this procedure, then we are outside the law. Then we need repatriation agreements and identification agreements, because otherwise, unfortunately, the law and the Geneva Convention will only be a piece of paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before those who have listened carefully to the Deputy Prime Minister will have heard that he has referred to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, quoted here in the Assembly. This means, in concrete terms, that no one will be told, not an asylum seeker, not someone who refuses to apply for asylum, if there is a danger to the integrity of his, her or their family. That is crucial in the answer of the Deputy Prime Minister. This must be monitored in each individual file and monitored in every file. I'm making an appeal to all of us. In politics one has to act and sometimes it is not easy. In politics one also sometimes has to communicate. Sometimes that can be silent. Often that will be speaking. Then I think we should speak with respect and decency. With respect and decency against colleagues, with respect and decency against our opponents, with respect and decency against people who are the subject of our policy. If we fail to do so, we will undermine the support of a fragile democracy. Let us watch this at the beginning of the working year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u67	Minister, you have given a comprehensive answer to many questions, but it is not by chance that you have answered the specific questions I have put to you. I didn't get an answer to that. You mentioned it. It's illegal. Illegals must, of course, return as quickly as possible in a humane manner. They have now finally begun to clean up the Maximilian park. That is a step in the right direction, but you could add a few more teeth. We will certainly support you, for example, if you were working on an active investigation policy of illegal immigrants, if you were trying to roll up networks of smugglers behind them, or if you were just a little more ambitious with this government in increasing the capacity of the closed centres, because they are desperately needed to implement an efficient return policy. I hope that you will continue to evolve in this direction. If so, we will certainly support you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u68	Mr Minister, this is a question of a very different order. It is not about tweets or anything like that, but about a subject on which, I think, the population is concerned. We have all heard that a police officer from the Brussels-North zone has provided very sensitive information to persons from terrorist groups. It concerns someone who has come across from the Brussels transport company and who has been known to have shown suspicious behaviour for some time. Such things cannot, of course, be done, especially in times of increased terror threats. That situation raises a lot of questions. First, between the moment the man was suspected and the moment he was arrested, he was apparently able to leak further information through WhatsApp undisturbed. Did they deliberately give that man that chance? Was there something behind that? Have the local corps taken responsibility and taken action? Secondly, we know that this is a person who has been transferred. Then the question arises as to whether he was adequately screened? Was the selection and recruitment sufficiently searched for any problems? Were there any background checks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u69	Mr Degroote, you will understand that I cannot tell you about the facts themselves, which are part of the ongoing judicial investigation. The man in question is currently under arrest. Has he been adequately screened? Like all policemen, almost 45 000, that man was screened. It has been preceded by a proper recruitment process. The next thing I need to know is what's wrong with me. We have 45 000 police officers working day in and day out, at risk to bodies and members, for our safety. If in that great corps of 45 000 people, once someone gets out of the way, please do not question the whole police force! We are doing what is necessary every day to safeguard democracy in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I believe that selection is necessary in the recruitment process. There are a number of problems in this area. We need to follow that up. Sometimes there is someone out of 45 000 people who is not purely chaotic. We know that they are not all purely chaotic, and a disciplinary procedure should not be delayed for that rotten apple. I understand that you are working on a draft law to update the disciplinary procedure. I have also tabled a legislative proposal in this area. I look forward to working together in Parliament to modernise the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u71	Minister, Madrid's intimidation towards Catalans has been going on for years, but in recent weeks the Franco regime in Spain seems to be back on track. For fear of democracy, the gross means are used to prevent citizens from voting democratically on self-determination on 1 October. They use repressive means like Erdogan, such as blocking websites, military and paramilitary display of power in the streets of Barcelona, raids on printing, on the press, and even in Catalan ministries. Hundreds of politicians have been prosecuted and top officials have been political prisoners in recent days. Where are the European Union's reactions on democracy, on freedoms, on human rights? Should something like this be done in Hungary or Poland, Juncker and Verhofstadt would be heard screaming and screaming with the foam on their lips! But it stays quiet about Spain. Also our government remains deafeningly silent. However, she is always the first of the class to play the conscience of the whole world, but today it remains deafeningly silent. My questions today are therefore very simple, Minister. Why is this government of Catalonia as passive as a rabbit for a light box? Will the government respond? Will the government take the Spanish Government on this, as Scotland has done, as Denmark has done? Will you put it on the agenda in the European Union or will the Spanish ambassador be called on to speak? Will the government do anything at all, or will the Community stand still far beyond its borders?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u72	The Minister for Pensions and now, apparently, Catalan affairs, what is happening in Catalonia, defies any imagination. The offices of Catalan ministers are invaded, a number of top figures are picked up and Catalonia is financially wiped out. That is a democratic disgrace. There's a new Franco up there and Franco's name is Mariano Rajoy. What the new Franco is doing is state terror. Why is that state terror? Because in the Kosovo case of 2010, the International Court of Justice made it very clear that there is no rule of law in international law that would prevent a unilateral separation. The Spanish constitution does not impress me at all, even less so than the Belgian one. But what is the value of a constitution which states that the army is given a political role, namely the monitoring of constitutional order? The army has no function whatsoever to play a political role in a democracy. The Spanish Constitution does not impress me at all, not even the so-called judgments of the Spanish Constitutional Court, a court that is politicised and politicised. Those are not judgments, they are judicial decisions, they are ukazen from Madrid, as at the time of Franco. My group expects a very clear signal from the Belgian Government to the new Franco. My first question is what will be the position of the Belgian Government? Then I have a few specific questions. As you know, Minister Jambon has made very tough statements, the independence of Catalonia would be worth a Belgian government crisis. Afterwards, he withdrew that statement, as he has now walked out and did not have to answer those questions. You, who are always near Mr Jambon at the Council of Ministers, do you think he still supports independence? Do you think this is another thing that makes his heart beat faster? What would explain the fact that he is refusing to answer this question here? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u73	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since 2010, I have been attending La Diada, the Catalan national holiday. In recent years, there has always been an impressive rise of more than a million Catalans, young and old, who come into the streets cheerfully, peacefully, without any incident and without skirmishes. They are asking for dialogue with Madrid and Spain from a pro-European point of view. They are asking for a referendum on their independence. For me, ladies and gentlemen, democracy is built up from the bottom up. What is the contrast when we see that Madrid's approach to self-determination is hallucinating? Police forces are sent, prints are seized and 712 Catalan mayors are served. We can no longer imagine in today's Europe that this can still happen. It reminds me of dark times, which I thought every government in Europe had renounced. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is currently obstructing a peaceful and democratic process through repression and military action. The right to self-determination of peoples is an internationally accepted principle. The European Union, based on democratic values, must recognise this right of self-determination. She can't perform à la carte. It cannot condemn Poland or Hungary, nor can it condemn Spain. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, will the government remain silent or will it call on Madrid to enter into dialogue? That is what the Catalans have been asking for seven years: talk to us. Call for dialogue. Secondly, would you ask your colleague Mr Reynders to call on Spain to refrain from using repression against democratic justice within the European gremium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u74	Mr President, on behalf of my fellow Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, I can say the following. The Spanish Constitution does not allow unilateral referendums on the independence of regions within Spain. Nor does the Statute of Catalonia provide for the possibility of holding a one-sided referendum. On 7 September, the Catalan Parliament unilaterally adopted the referendum law. On 8 September, the Catalan Parliament subsequently adopted the law on the legal transitional rules. The Spanish Constitutional Court annulled the Catalan laws on 8 and 12 September respectively. The Court has served these decisions on all the members of the Catalan Government, the Office of the Catalan Parliament and all the Catalan mayors. This implies that they should not participate in the organisation of a referendum. The Spanish authorities stress the material impossibility of the referendum by instructing the various police forces to confiscate material. In the meantime, several printing works and storage facilities have been examined and materials seized. The police have apprehended a number of Catalan government staff specifically responsible for organising the referendum. We call for this internal situation to be resolved within the rule of law. We continue to follow these developments with due attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u75	I do not know whether I should thank the Minister for Pensions and Catalan Affairs for this answer. He has certainly given an overview that I already know of the means used by Spain to suppress the right to self-determination. It must all be followed up within the region, one will look at it from afar and, above all, one will do nothing. I shall read you a quote from a Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, a nationalist, who wants to remain silent about the Community for 10 years. That is probably one of the reasons, Mr President, why he cannot answer that question today. Minister Jambon said in December 2016: "If Catalonia comes on the government's agenda, then the Belgian government falls. In hindsight, he reversed those words a little bit. When he was asked whether he would cause the government to fall on that point, his answer was: 'We cannot, in any case, put our credibility at risk in this matter.' I do not know what credibility this is about, Minister. I no longer believe that N-VA words are followed by deeds, but it is not enough to attend La Diada. It is not enough to put Catalan flags on the social media. It is this government that has to come to terms and take a stand. This government must let Spain know that it cannot do so. This government must take a position, just as Scotland has done and as Denmark has done. However, you do not. This government stands by and looks at whether, even better, you stand by and look away, as a coward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u76	Painful to hear, isn't it, fellow N-VAs? Catalan independence will become a second ARCO dossier, the government simply will not do anything about it. You have heard very clearly the answer from the Catalan Minister. At least my group remains steadfast. We are indeed expecting a very clear signal from this new Franco:¡no pasarán! It is not enough to send two photocopiers from Barcelona. That's not enough. It's the same song again: look at my tweets, listen to my tough statements, but don't look at my government acts. In a democracy, citizens have the right to speak freely. It's not just in Catalonia. That is also true in Flanders, where you have now decided not to talk about the Community. All achievements that have already been achieved in the Flemish emancipation have been achieved because the Flemish case has been kept silent. Do you believe that? However much you will remain silent about it, my group, Veerle Wouters and I, will keep the Community on the agenda over and over again. I solemnly promise you that. The renewed unitary belgicism, of which you and Mr Jambon have become the symbol, is also no pasarán for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vuye, Mrs Pas, I have been here for ten years and for ten years I have been in opposition and in the majority I have been addressing this problem. I'm doing this today, too. I have the courage to stand here today. I therefore have no lessons to get from you. You are only here for a short time and you haven't spoken much in this Catalan story. Firstly, let us make a distinction. Today we are discussing the right of Catalans to express their independence and the way in which they wish to achieve it. We are not going to make a decision until the Catalans have decided for themselves. That is not the case today. I share your opinion, and I do not agree with the Spanish government that is hiding behind the constitution. I also hear this argument in the Minister's reply. I disagree. If the Constitution were characterised by a status quo, women would not have the right to vote today and we would still be a unitary state. So that's a false argument. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who today denies that the democratic process in Catalonia is unholy and that it is being stopped by Madrid, who denies the light of the sun.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u78	On Monday night, they rang the bell and stood here with that girl at the door. A forced placement, both for the girl and for us, says the director of the psychiatric center in Ghent. It is yet another story of a minor in great mental distress who cannot go to the right place. Instead of an adapted bed, she ends up between adult male psychopaths in the heaviest unit. A little 11-year-old girl between heavy psychopaths. You just have to imagine your own daughter in order to understand the depth and seriousness of this. A major incident was the cause. That incident could also have been avoided, because three weeks ago De Waai, where the girl was staying, had an intervention from the crisis team. I see Minister De Block and Minister Vandeurzen swear on television a while ago that such things could not happen anymore, because in every province a crisis team would be ready. Apparently, it's a crisis team that you have to wait three weeks for. Then Minister De Block describes the incident as an accident the course, as something that can happen. But that's not an accident the course, absolutely not. The incident is very serious and violates the integrity of that child. It is yet another incident, because with the regularity of the clock we read that such incidents occur and that children and young people do not end up where they should end up. We all know that here. You know that too, Minister Bacquelaine. Mrs. De Block knows that, too. I wonder whether Minister De Block is aware that this is the direct consequence of her policy of saving millions on health care, especially the psychiatry of children, to which she has decided? When will that stop, Minister? When will our young people's mental health become a priority for our government? When will the government invest in the future of our children instead of saving again on the back of the weakest?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u79	Mr President, on behalf of my colleague, the Minister for Health, I can say the following. The Minister and her cabinet were informed yesterday about the development in the care process of the girl concerned. The Minister never goes into an individual file and will not do so this time either. Whether in the general hospital world, in psychiatry or in youth welfare, it is regrettable every time someone does not receive the most appropriate care immediately, all the more so because the mental health care sector for children and young people is working hard every day to do so as much as possible. As a member of the Health Committee, I do not need to remind you that this sector has been undergoing a major reform since 2015, with the expertise of everyone ensuring optimal complementarity. Provincial networks are responsible for their coordination, which means that there is now a clear point of contact, including for such crisis situations. In order to facilitate this reform, the Minister makes an additional 28 million euros a year. This significant budget is used for those forms of care, which are previously marginal, such as mobile care, while crisis action is also specifically supported by additional targeting of 10% of children's psychiatry beds.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u80	Minister, I did not ask for an individual dossier at all; I asked for a policy. Unfortunately, you haven't told me anything new. I don't blame you; you're here to read a piece of paper. Minister De Block should have been here. Minister De Block should have been here to explain and explain the incident. She should have been here to explain to us whether and in what way she will free up resources to avoid such incidents in the future. And that's not the way you just said it is, because that's about something else. The absence and attitude bear witness to an incredible dedain for the problems of children and young people. In my view, that is unworthy of a minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u81	Minister, in Belgium, more than 26 000 circumcisions are carried out every year for underage boys. Much of this does not happen for medical reasons, but for religious reasons. However, we do not have exact figures because the RIZIV does not make this distinction and actually pays back every circumcision in its entirety. It is about EUR 106 per operation, which means a little less than EUR 3 million per year. The Belgian Consultative Committee on Bioethics has stated in a report that performing circumcisions without medical reasons - they were unanimous about this - is in fact not justified. Our group also thinks that this is absolutely correct. The medical necessity is required for many interventions as a condition for their reimbursement. There's no reason not to do that here. A religious or other private decision without medical necessity cannot be made at the expense of social security. The argument that is being used today in the newspapers is that there is a danger that we will see kitchen circumcisions happen again. That's kind of turning the world upside down. It is not because something is no longer repaid that it can no longer be carried out. Moreover, such arguments could ensure that no lines can be drawn anywhere. It is logic itself that social security does not serve to repay religious choices. Hence my question. I read today that Minister De Block's spokesperson says she doesn't intend to change anything about that refund. However, she may have been caught in speed because the minister is not in the country. For a minister who really relies her policy on evidence-based medicine and who has to save in health care, I find that reaction incomprehensible. Hence my question: Minister, is this really the position of Minister De Block?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u82	I answer on behalf of my colleague, Minister De Block. The Advisory Committee on Bioethics has indeed delivered an opinion on the ethical aspects of non-medical circumcision, at the request of the Chairman of the Medical Ethics Committee of Iris Ziekenhuizen Zuid. As you know, it is not possible at the moment for health insurance to distinguish between circumcision based on a medical indication, namely to prevent fimosis, and a purely religious indication. Doctors are not supposed to register the religious beliefs of patients or their parents. Whether the distinction should be made and whether there should be consequences in terms of reimbursement is a consideration of a number of implications. For example, it should be borne in mind that the cessation of reimbursement could lead to an illegal parallel circuit where the security of those concerned is no longer guaranteed. We do not forget that these are small children. The intense discussion over the last few days clearly shows that this is an issue which deserves a broad public debate. I therefore believe that it is primarily up to the Chamber to organise this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u83	Mr President, Minister, a broad social debate is very simple. You say that we cannot make that distinction, because a doctor cannot ask about a person's religion. No, of course not. He doesn't have to. He just needs to see if there's a medical reason for the procedure. He does that for a lot of interventions and that should be exactly the same for this procedure. I also hear a lot of voices from Open Vld, because Mr Egbert Lachaert has already spoken out against this refund in the past, so I hope that I can convince the cabinet together with him. After all, it cannot be that social security and our health care are there to pay back interventions that are not medically necessary. By the way, I hear from the Jewish community that this is actually getting through. In the Islamic community, this debate is even a step too far. It doesn't really matter what people think about this from a religious point of view, because religion has nothing to do with a debate on reimbursement. So I'm gonna stick with the idea of getting that refund out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u84	If you will, I will continue with the questions to Minister Ducrame, so that we can meet the Social Affairs Committee in a few moments. Please be patient for a few minutes. Then we will deal with the questions addressed to Minister Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u85	Minister, questioning you is almost an honour for me! I had a question for Mrs De Block, but you're part of a big, united family. So it's a pleasure because I think that's your first question. It takes a start to everything and I hope that the answer will live up to my expectations. Let's wait, for I have such a doubt about it! Your government has decided to bring together within a platform, Sciensano, our four independent scientific advisory bodies – I insist on the term "independent" – in the field of health: PSI, CERVA, the Higher Council of Health and KCE. In addition, you have decided to manage this platform by a single board of directors, representing only public authorities. Minister, you know the role of these scientific advisory bodies that make important opinions, that highlight the dangers of a vaccine or medicine, that propose solutions to make antibiotics more effective or that sound alarms when, for example, dangerous substances are found in food. It's not up to me to remind you, you who had to walk on eggs as soon as you got on duty. I know the Minister of Health has already given an explanation. She said, "We are doing this to be more effective, more efficient." Here's your position. Mine – you may say that it is subjective but I have learned to be careful with your government – is that I have the impression that you are removing full autonomy from these totally independent scientific advisory bodies. This scares me because, in my view, this decision clearly threatens the independence, freedom and expertise of these bodies. It is not because I am a modest member of the opposition, but I have read that at least 70 university professors say nothing but what I say in this forum. Minister, with your formula, how will you avoid the fact that interest groups and lobbies are no longer weighing their weight on public authorities? How will you ensure that public authorities do not influence the research carried out so that the conclusions correspond to their assumptions? Your colleague De Block always insists on the place of patient associations. Will they be well represented on Sciensano's board of directors? Finally, scientists and even the director of the KCE, which is not nothing, took a stand. The only interest of the latter is to maintain its autonomy in order to be even more effective tomorrow, in the interest of the health of our citizens. I would have liked to know whether these current personalities and officials have been consulted in the implementation of this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u86	Mr Frédéric, thank you for this first question in plenary. It falls on me; it is a bit of a coincidence, since the PS group had addressed this question to my colleague Maggie De Block. I will give you his answer very scrupulously and faithfully. As foreseen in the vision note of 14 June 2016 on the redesign of health care administrations, the KCE, the future Sciensano platform, the former ISP, CERVA and the Higher Council of Health should merge to form only one institute. The creation of Sciensano is the government's response to an audit conducted by the Court of Auditors in 2010, in which it is advocated for a more coherent and structured health research system. The Court of Auditors also pointed out a lack of strategy and guidance, causing insufficient collaboration between the various institutes, and mentioned that several institutes regularly conduct a separate study on the same subject. Discussions have taken place in recent months between the senior officials of KCE, ISP, CERVA, the Higher Health Council and representatives of the Public Health Strategic Cell regarding the strategy, governance, organization, identity and independence of the new merged institute. As a result of these discussions, a draft text has been drafted and will soon be presented to the government. It goes without saying that independence, objectivity and integrity are important factors for a scientific institute responsible for formulating strategic opinions. This applies not only to the KCE, but also to Sciensano and the Higher Health Council. This is why discussions and decisions on the topics of research programmes and their validation will be held in a separate committee where various stakeholders, such as mutualities, hospital domes, medical unions, will be represented by analogy with the current KCE Board of Directors. The patient representative organisations will also sit on this committee. The Board of Directors of Sciensano, in which various public services are represented, will take responsibility for the management decisions of the Institute (budget, personnel policy, etc.).), issues on which not all stakeholders should decide. Ms De Block said she was convinced that this would create a modern and efficient organisation capable of delivering independent and scientifically sound opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u87	Mr Minister, I said at the outset that it happened to you, but you got away with it. You have read the answer well and I find that this collaboration with Mrs De Block reinforces a sense of the nuance to which we have not been accustomed so far. I understand the minister's commitment to maintaining the autonomy of these scientific tools that were previously independent. It's a pious wish. You will allow me to remain careful because this is not the first time this government has made health care announcements. I am not going to summarize the attacks on our health care (drug prices, the future of hospital institutions, etc.) with which our fellow citizens must live on a daily basis. I would not like to be added a layer by gagging scientific authorities that have been recognized for decades and by imposing on them the exclusive views of the government. The health of our citizens remains, in my view, the most important and I will be extremely attentive to what will be implemented in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u88	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, according to the most recent INASTI report of June 2017, the number of self-employed in 2016 was 1,058,522. However, according to a study published by the UCL and sponsored by the CSC, it seems that almost half of these independents, or 500,000, can be considered as false independents, which I have – I assure you – difficulty believing. Moreover, the UCM did not wait to contest this figure. Nevertheless, I fully realize that our economic society is constantly evolving and that the way in which labour relations operate is also changing on a day-to-day basis. Minister, I have a few simple questions for you. Do you validate this figure of 500,000 false self-employed? What teaching do you learn from this study? The Labour Relations Qualification Act 2006, which sets out the objective criteria for defining what an independent person is, was amended itself in 2012, with a sectoral approach. It still seems to be a problem today in terms of control, legal certainty and practicality. Can you tell us what is happening at this stage so that we can see more clearly? Should this law be amended and amended? Finally, in a more general way, can you remind us what measures this government is taking to combat the phenomenon of false self-employed people?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u89	Mr President, dear Mrs Cassart, thank you for this question. As you said, the article that appeared yesterday implied that there were no fewer than 500,000 false independents in our country. This requires clarification. I did not wait until today to react. I did it in the press. The Union of Middle Classes has rightly also replied. It is useful to recall the legal bases that qualify an employment relationship as paid or self-employed. It is the law of 27 December 2006, as amended in 2012, which explains the criteria for distinguishing between employees and self-employed persons. Let's call them back. The absence of a link of subordination. The reality of an independent activity is verified on the basis of four legal criteria: the will of the parties, freedom of organization of working time, freedom of organization of work and the possibility of a hierarchical control to be exercised. The economic dependence, as implied in the publications to which you referred, the fact of working alone, of not having hired staff or of working for only one client are criteria that are not, on their own, relevant to the assessment of the existence of a legal subordination bond. So, of course, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, a doctor, an electrician, a craftsman who works alone, are independents. It is clear that the publication of this type of information, which calls into question the fact that they are in good standing before the legislation, is completely absurd. We have to say that. I will recall, and you will probably have seen, that the press organ in question, today morning, corrected the information transmitted yesterday in this regard. You alluded to it. The 2006 Act, as amended in 2012, injected and implemented a number of sectoral criteria. Today, according to the legislative changes introduced in 2012, control is becoming increasingly complex. Quite quickly, in consultation with my colleagues De Block and Peeters, I intend to propose a number of revisions to this law which would allow us to work in a clearer way. This is likely to be a proposal for a revision that will bring us closer to the legislation as it was established in 2006.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for the clarity of your answer. As you said, considering that half of the independents are false independents, it is not knowing the reality of the ground, the independents and the statutes. We fully agree. As you explained, the 2006 law was amended in 2012, but still poses problems in terms of controls and administration. That is why it should be changed again. We can work together in committee to do this. I thank you for the position you have taken today, and you will take in the future, for the independents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u91	Mr President, after the serious issues of international law and the reception of the migrants who occupied us earlier, my question could be a smile, but I think it deserves to be taken seriously. Mr. Minister of Finance, it has certainly already happened to you, as to all of us, to invite friends home to have a drink. That's what some of my fellow citizens did last Saturday. It was a bad thing for them, since, after savoring the wine they shared, they were caught with vertigo, spasm, fall of tension, delusions. One of them had a cardiac arrest. He owes life only to luck, since his companion did not taste the wine, which allowed him to call for help. He was plunged into a coma. Fortunately, his days are no longer in danger. If I ask you about this, minister, it is because the bottle that caused this poisoning was bought in the Fin Shop in Gembloux, which was inaugurated last June by your colleague the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, and by the top officials of the Department of Finance. It goes without saying that I do not incriminate your department. I would also like to commend the action of the King's prosecutor, who very quickly ordered an expert opinion. The latter revealed that this bottle did not contain much grape juice but was filled with synthetic drugs and methanol. The investigation is, of course, under way to try to go back to the industry and possibly to go back to what could be a drug trafficking or an attempt to poison, since the bottle had been found to scrap bpost. Beyond this case, Minister, what lessons do you learn from this incident? What steps have you taken or intend to take to prevent this from happening again? If your Department of Finance continues to sell food products, alcoholic beverages or not, it seems to me that it cannot completely exonerate itself from any responsibility to consumers. Should it not be subject to the rules that apply to any trader? Should it not respect the principles of food safety that are dear to the AFSCA? These are ultimately public health issues. I thank you already for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u92	Mr President, Mr Dispa, the federal authorities are obliged to sell their decommissioned movable property via the Fin Shops. The same applies to abandoned furniture. The Fin Shops are also responsible for selling confiscated or seized property under the Act of 26 March 2003. In the case of seized, confiscated or declassified property, the Fin Shops implements the decision of the originator to hand over the property to them. It is not up to them to control the quality of it. If the goods cannot be sold because they are clearly illicit proceeds or counterfeit goods, they are destroyed. In the case of goods seized by customs, they are subject to systematic sampling checks. In the case of abandoned goods, and in particular bpost packages, the quality control of the proposed products is, for the moment, mainly visual in order to verify that the property is intact and not counterfeit. Of course, the recent incident shows the inadequacy of this method. The bottle was part of a batch of two bottles from bpost, only one of which was purchased – fortunately. My administration has decided to temporarily suspend any sale of alcohol. My services are also examining the possibility of no longer offering certain products for sale, with the aim of taking the maximum necessary precautions. Other similar measures are certainly being studied and considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u93	Minister, thank you for your answer. You recalled the legal framework of the Fin Shops. I take note of your assessment. You consider that, in the present case, visual inspection is clearly insufficient to guarantee minimum safety. I also take note of your decision to suspend, in any case temporarily, the sale of alcohol in the three Fin Shops in your department. I will pay attention to the more structural measures that you are thinking about with your services. Indeed, it seems to me that in any event such a situation should not happen again. On the other hand, Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the situation experienced by the persons concerned, as well as to any prospects for compensation and, in any case, to the damage suffered which could have been fatal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u94	Mr Secretary of State, today is a joyous day for free trade in the world. Today, the CETA Agreement, the Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada, enters into force provisionally. We have discussed this on several occasions in plenary. If we believed the left side, today about the apocalypse would break out: a tsunami of Canadian mat tarts and fromage de Herve would flood our country. Democracy would cease to exist and our courts would be seized from today by multinationals and lobbyists. None of this has happened today, however, ladies and gentlemen. What we do see from today is that our Belgian companies will have almost no more burdens to trade with Canada. Ninety-eight percent of customs charges have disappeared at one stroke today for the 1 676 Belgian companies exporting to the country. This is positive for the 23 000 jobs associated with it. That number of jobs will increase with the trade agreement, because the huge Canadian market is also opening up to Belgian companies. For example, Belgian dredgers will also be able to carry out works in Canada. Even more, European companies will save around 590 million euros in total. That is money that they can invest in the European economy, in jobs, infrastructure and so on. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. How do you assess the entry into force of CETA today? What opportunities do you see? Will you launch initiatives to strengthen trade relations between Canada and Belgium? Do you expect problems in the Walloon and Brussels-Capital regions with the final ratification of the Treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u95	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, in reply to your first question, I can tell you that the Treaty is actually coming into force today. This is a particularly important treaty, which has now eliminated 98% of tariff and non-tariff barriers. In addition, the services sector, both from the European Union and Canada, will become an open trading area. European companies will also be able to participate in the so-called competitions for local authorities, municipal authorities, city authorities, provincial authorities, regional authorities and national administrations in Canada. So I can only say that the treaty is a good thing. I don't foresee any problems in implementation. You know that more than 85% of our gross domestic product comes from exports. Canada plays a particularly important role in this. The first initiative we will take, subject to existing initiatives, is the state visit which King Filip will lead in spring 2018 to strengthen trade relations between Canada and Belgium and, by extension, trade relations with the European Union. Finally, I do not see any problem with the implementation of that important trade agreement between the various regions of this country, not least because there is a great historical connection through language between large parts of Belgium and Canada. Thus I conclude my answer. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u96	Mr President, Secretary of State, I am pleased that initiatives are already being taken, such as King Filip's State visit in 2018. This is a very strong signal, behind which all the regions have also gone. The trade agreement we are talking about fits perfectly into the current government's mantra, namely: jobs, jobs, jobs. As I said, the trade agreement will in future provide more jobs in our country than the 23 000 jobs now. I look forward to ratification. I am also confident that it will certainly be on the Walloon side, now that there is a new progressive government, so that we will no longer have to talk about the agreement and ratification here. I thank you and wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u97	We have thus reached the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u98	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u99	Mr President, I refer to my written report. I would point out, however, that the draft resolution was adopted by nine votes to four, with one abstention. Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group will support this bill because we believe it is extremely important. First, as part of the implementation of the strategic vision, it was important to consolidate and sustain the Royal Military School, a federal institution that is a true foundation for our army and a symbol of excellence for our officers and non-commissioned officers. If we train instructors and military personnel in Mali or Iraq, it seems clear to us that our own military personnel must receive a high level of training that is recognized for its quality. Second, our officers and non-commissioned officers must be trilingual. What is more normal in view of their involvement in many fields of operation in Afghanistan or the Baltic States, Africa or the Middle East, in a European or Atlantic context. The teaching of the Royal Military School (RME) will be done in part in English and we will also ensure that the academic body of the MRE is representative of the language components of our country. Thirdly, this development of the ERM must be part of the European Defence path and of the construction of a European network for the formation of military elites in the countries of the European Union, the best guarantee of integration of the armies of the member countries. This is a very important point, which Professor Jean Marsia highlighted in particular in his doctoral thesis on European Defence. The Royal Military School must continue and intensify its contacts and structural relations with other similar institutions in the other countries of the European Union. Mr Minister, we are living a favourable moment for the progressive and pragmatic construction of a European defence policy. The MR Group congratulates you on the pragmatic decisions taken for the military acquisition programmes that we conclude with the Dutch for our Mer component, with the French for our army and with Germany for our external operations in Afghanistan or the Baltic States. The choice of replacing our F-16s will also be an important indicator of our ambition in this area. Responses to the specifications have been provided since 7 September. Your services dissect the answers. It is obvious that we will pay attention to the economic benefits for our country and for our regions. We have the aeronautical companies to do this. Minister, like you, we are following this issue very carefully. The last European Council was also an opportunity to adopt proposals from the European Commission to help finance military equipment, both in terms of research and development and acquisitions through the European Defence Fund. My analysis of this decision is as follows. Thanks to these new financial resources, the European Defence Agency will play a greater role in the joint planning of equipment, the final objective being integrated planning for the acquisition of military equipment. The European defence industries will see it as a new motivation to reorganise their relations towards new mergers and acquisitions. The last Franco-German summit also mentions this point for the land domain. This new industrial landscape will of course have to overcome the obstacle of European rules on free competition. Attention should be paid to the social dimension of the case. Minister, I have no doubt for a moment that you are putting your approach into this comprehensive European approach. The MR will support you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u100	Mr President, Minister, in the face of this draft, there are two real debates to be held, both in substance and in form. First of all, you will allow me to speak about the form and manner in which the debates were conducted in committee. The conditions under which this project was passed on to the Defence Committee make me strangely think of the fables of La Fontaine. First the fable of the hare and the turtle. I'd like to tell you that there's no point in running, we have to get out of here. We are in the second academic year of the Royal Military School, which is taking place in an unacceptable legal vacuum. Maybe that's your definition of good management? If I take another well-known fable, it is true that the N-VA cicada found itself devoid of for this academic year, despite a committee chair sometimes flouting the rules of our assembly, sometimes the basic rights of opposition and parliamentary democracy. Moreover, even if my group does not share the philosophy of this text, we have only used the existing procedures to enforce the parliamentary debate, which Mrs Grosemans would once again like to confiscate or reduce to its simplest expression. Minister, Madam Chair of the Commission, my group has always been constructive but will no longer allow any procedural errors to occur. We will also see whether students of the two academic years concerned will bring recourse to the Council of State. What a beautiful sword of Damocles above your heads! Having done this, let's get to the bottom of the project. For the PS group, training in its various forms within the Ministry of Defence is essential. The attractiveness and excellence of Defence-led training are key to fighting ever-stronger attrition, while our military are "blown at all sauces" in the context of a budget diet, jeopardizing their basic training. The attrition will be all the more strong as this government has made the unilateral choice to use 100% of the fixed-term contract known as "BDL" and to postpone the retirement of the military by several years, which undermines your strategic vision, even from the admission of the CHOD. For us, the Royal Military School, the last national university, plays a central role and is a significant social elevator. On numerous occasions, we have intervened to denounce the legal insecurity in which this government plunged the Royal Military School by reducing the years of study unilaterally and without legal basis and by having the students sign a document that has no legal value. As a reminder, the Organic Law of the Royal Military School of 1838 provides for five years in the Faculty of Social and Military Sciences, while the royal decree taken in haste in 2016 fixed the first year of a program in four years. This is not legal. In addition, this reform has been implemented since the beginning of the academic year 2016-2017, while the amending law has not yet entered into force since it is only tabled on our benches today. Students who began their first year of bachelor's degree at the Royal Military School in August 2016 were not informed of any changes to the structure of their studies until just before they were incorporated! They were invited to sign a document to become aware of these planned changes on the day they were incorporated as officers candidates. During their recruitment and selection process, there has never been any mention of a programme in five years. They were confronted with a fait accompli. They had to either accept it or give up becoming officers. So you imposed a program on them that had no legal basis. The haste which can be seen in this dossier is incomprehensible, as is the lack of consultation with the Communities in charge of higher education. This reform therefore seems to be motivated solely by budgetary reasons. We would like to break the tool – although Belgian it is true – that we would not do otherwise! In the meantime, in your answers to my oral questions in committee – they were numerous – you explained that these programs are also validated by the academic board and by the assent of the development and education board. To my knowledge, the teachers were ousted. The members of the faculty of the Royal Military School are no longer represented at the board level. In your opinion, their intervention is requested further in the process of drawing up the programmes through the working group of the faculty council or the academic council. Faculty councils should have been consulted in early 2016 on this subject of curriculum reform, they were not. For these reasons, my group has asked, without success, to hear from the Communities and the faculty, in particular as to whether this reform is compatible with Bologna because, beyond this legal vacuum on a timing issue, underlined by the opinion of the Council of State, which criticizes the retroactive nature, my group is critical of two crucial points of this project. First of all, the change from five to four years of study in the social and military sciences. It's anachronistic. We also fully share the concerns expressed by the Council of State, which we have expressed on several occasions. This reform also implies that in two faculties the number of options will be reduced. These amendments were not coordinated with the accreditation bodies or with the Communities, endangering the recognition by law and the decrees of the diplomas awarded by the Royal Military School and the accreditation of the programmes. In short, I fear that the Defence, through this project, will once again become a great silent isolated from the Belgian and European academic fabric. Is this the will or the will to eventually outsource these trainings less advanced in the civil than that of polytechnics, for example? To affirm, as you do, that a master's degree in social and military sciences reduced from 120 to 60 credits will therefore have no impact on the conditions necessary to start graduate studies is to deny the obvious. In committee, you took the example of similar training in the Flemish Community. I said: I would have been happy to hear and to talk directly with the latter. Secondly, the question of English arises. My group, a great defender of Europe's defence and the search for synergies between our various armies, will obviously not blame you for encouraging the teaching and knowledge of English within the Royal Military and Defence School in general. But there is no question here of giving half of the courses in English but of the whole. As English is not an official language in Belgium, this recommendation was not reflected in the conclusions of the Working Group on Language Balance. He rightly said: "Defence must strongly encourage the military to take a year of courses at the Royal Military School, to follow the second and third cycles of training and to serve in one unit of the other national language." Such initiatives contribute significantly to the practical knowledge of the second national language and constitute the best preparation for language examinations. So how can you achieve this goal with your "all in English"? Nor can the potential impact of this choice on attrition be ignored. How can we be sure that this will not be a hindrance for some when an additional language requirement will be introduced before the military student has started training? What will be the legal status of our partnerships, especially with students from the African continent? What will be the consequence of this total immersion in English on the knowledge of the other national language and, therefore, their progression in the military hierarchy? In addition, this raises questions about compliance with language legislation. Finally, the estimated time in the social and military sciences for completion memories is reduced from 30 to 18 credit units, which will affect their quality. Important factor for the accreditation of programmes: they must be written in a language other than the two national languages. In committee, we abstained on these articles. In your project, and especially in our debates in committee, I find no answer to these essential questions when Defence has a duty to mobilize young people, otherwise it will no longer be able to fulfil the tasks assigned to it. Knowing your appetite for outsourcing or, I should say, privatization, my group and I are very worried. In committee, you accused me of truncking reality. It must be noted that you have few arguments to object to my observations and concerns. My group will therefore reject your proposal. You will have no doubt, we will follow very closely this institution to which we are firmly committed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u101	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that we will not support this draft law. We have already said this in committee. There was a thorough debate on this in committee. As regards the work in committee and the debate itself, I can only express my annoyance, like Mrs Fernandez Fernandez. I will confine my remarks to one specific point which I feel is not good for the attraction of a career in the military and the value of the training. Colleagues, the programme at the Faculty of Social and Military Sciences is reduced from five to four years. This has a positive budgetary impact. However, more and more Master's degree programmes extend their credits from 60 to 120. The extension of the study scope of master's programmes is a trend in all Flemish universities. This proposal goes against this trend. However, there are sufficient arguments for a two-year master's programme. Firstly, international recognition is under pressure. Secondly, the studyability of training is being increased. The one-year master's programme has a very high study pressure. Thirdly, there must be room for a mobility window in the training courses. While the importance of a study stay abroad is widely recognised and even more recently encouraged, it appears very difficult to integrate such a stay abroad into the one-year study programme. Fourthly and finally, a Master's programme of 120 credits offers the space to offer different graduation courses with their own finality and to develop those graduation courses fully. For example, one can install internships and specialise deeper. So I also wonder whether these arguments are of no importance to the students of the KMS. Are there already sufficient internships available, for example? To what extent does the master specialise? Is there room for different graduation directions? The Minister did not actually answer these questions. If this is merely a saving measure, the training will be at risk of a significant loss of quality. Instead of reducing the programme to four years, one may have to think first about how a two-year master can be completed more qualitatively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u102	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the CDH will not support this bill either for a number of reasons, which I shall briefly summarize. First of all, the reduction, for reasons of economy – since this is the essential argument of this bill – of the number of years of study that goes from five to four years for the master's degree in social and military sciences. This reform is at the heart of the project. The CDH believes that it will have an extremely negative effect on the value of the training and diploma thus obtained, on the future mobility of graduates of the Royal Military School (RME) who would like to pursue doctoral studies in other academic institutions in Belgium or abroad – the Conseil d'État also pointed out – or who would like to reorient their careers outside the Defence to other employers and, as a result, also on the attractiveness of the training offered by the ERM and by the military career. Yet, generally speaking, the government claims to want to increase the attractiveness of the military profession in order to achieve its workforce objectives. While it legitimately seeks to rejuvenate the workforce and develop the concept of a fixed-term career in defence, this reform will substantially complicate the necessary retraining of military personnel leaving the army and limit the opportunities that could be offered to them. In committee, the minister's response to this criticism only confirmed our fears and demonstrated how contradictory the government's actions in this area were. In fact, we were told that if someone wanted to return to the ERM, it was to be military and to be able to do so as quickly as possible, without taking into account the government's overall policy of increasing mobility today. The second reason, as other colleagues have mentioned, is the lack of consultation with the Communities, which are nevertheless competent in the field of teaching and the recognition of diplomas. This poses a problem in the context of a reform that changes the number of years of study to obtain a master's degree. The majority even preferred to reject any consultation or hearing of the representatives of the Communities, preferring to limit itself to the minister's assurances of recognition outside the defence of this new curriculum. This is unacceptable. The third element is the possibility introduced by this bill to now provide all master's courses in English only. This reform is again dictated by reasons of savings, by the Minister's own admission, which explains that the consolidation into a single English linguistic group will make it possible to be more effective than with two French and Dutch linguistic groups. However, while it is of course essential to know English, it is at least as important to master both national languages. This is an important issue for Defence, as we know. This new provision also calls for principles. In my view, it is essential to be able to follow this type of teaching, write his memory and obtain such a diploma in one of our two national languages. This seems to me to be a fundamental right that we take lightly here. It also represents a precedent for the defence and maintenance of our cultural and linguistic identities in the face of this ever greater homogenization in favour of a single language and understanding of the world. For all of these reasons, and in light of the debates that have taken place in committee, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u103	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Dutch-French bilingualism can be viewed in two ways. Some will say that bilingualism holds the country together, at least at the top. In the new Belgium, it is clear that a person in a responsible position is bilingual, they reason, especially when evaluating other persons, such as in the administration. It seems logical to them that there should be a strong bilingualism. No institution attaches as much importance to language skills as the Defence Department. Bilingualism of the military is a fundamental pillar of the Belgian army. Others will say that bilingualism is disturbing for a country on its way to confederalism. When the two communities in the country go their own way, it is not useful to have links with the other community through bilingualism. They argue that ministers and others do not need to be bilingual. Each one does his thing, each one lives in his community. During the debate on the Royal Military School, it is rightly argued that the training in English does not rule out the existence of strict language examinations in the access to and promotion of Defence. However, who will claim that the level of French or Dutch will improve if the master would be organized in English rather than in French or Dutch? Who's to say no door opens, nothing moves? Another argument is that the inclusion of English in the training programmes of the KMS would have an important precedent since it is not yet known exactly what it is leading to. There is a similar debate in the Flemish universities. It is argued that if all masters were to be offered in English, the Dutch step by step would deteriorate. Some will wonder what has led to the Flemish struggle for Dutch-speaking university education and against French-speaking university education, if that has now been thrown into English. For many it is therefore clear that the scheme for the KMS should not have a precedent value for later policy. It is a narrow scheme, an exception for the KMS, because it is clear to them that something is moving, and not for the benefit of Dutch or French. Between the rules and therefore without many having noticed, there is also a shift in the country. The future will tell whether that is wise or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u104	Mr Bogaert, I share your concerns. Yesterday I heard on the radio Prime Minister Bourgeois, following the guest lecture he came to give in Louvain-la-Neuve, rightly underline the importance of Dutch in higher education. You can call what is before you today's vote an exception, but it is diametrically opposed to that. Today, a draft law is being discussed here and is about to be adopted which will virtually completely engulf that education at the Royal Military School. The masters will now be fully taught in English. For the bachelors, a large part of the courses can also be taught in English. Clap on the bat is that students who have completed their bachelor's programme at the KMS will not be able to start their master's programme if they do not provide proof of sufficient knowledge of English. In fact, that means a ban on language training, and not even a national language. The clock will be reversed for more than a hundred years. Mr Bogaert, you have already referred to this: the Flemings have had to fight a very long and hard struggle in this country to obtain instruction in their own language from primary to higher education. This battle was only settled, when Belgium existed for more than a hundred years, with the humiliation of Ghent University in 1930. What is happening today is indeed a dangerous precedent. The debate is now being held at the Flemish universities. What arguments can be put forward, as a so-called Flemish nationalist who is already introducing federally? That must be done exactly a hundred years after the Flemish front soldiers brought out their first political demands, including for command of the Flemish soldiers in Dutch, which makes it all even more agitated. Colleagues, I understand perfectly that our military frameworks need a good knowledge of English. Language knowledge is important; they must indeed operate in an international context. The language used in NATO, UN and EU operations is English. A good technical knowledge of that language is much needed, but a good knowledge of English is something quite different from englishing the entire education. For us, it is essential that all subjects, with the exception of language subjects, be taught in their own language. A good knowledge of English can be learned perfectly through language courses. The emphasis is always placed on the international missions of the army, but the army is primarily intended to protect its own people, especially at the level of terror we are experiencing today. That aspect must certainly not go into the background. I have tabled an amendment to Minister Vandeput's draft law to prevent the planned engulation. In the amendment we are asking for Articles 4, 5 and 6 to be omitted for this reason. No matter how one spins it or turns it, it is a precedent. It is not the first time that the government has called into question the language acquired by the Flemish Movement. I am thinking of the London Protocol, which has already undermined the protection of Dutch as a patent language. I am thinking of the limited knowledge of the police in Brussels, which is deteriorating year after year, and you name it. Here, yet another step is being taken on language issues which show that Community stagnation is declining. We cannot, of course, agree with that. I regret the fact that the N-VA is taking the lead in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, I hope that my amendment will give you better insights and that you will approve my amendment, because in that case we will also be able to approve the draft law, but frankly I do not give it much chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u105	Mr President, I too have taken note of the draft law with some surprise. In 1930 Dutch became a full academic language. As Flemings, we have had to wait a hundred years for the humiliation of the University of Ghent. That has been a giant step, even a giant leap in the Flemish emancipation. Now I notice that there is a plan to organise the masters at the Royal Military School, also a university institution, for which the federal government is still competent, in English. I find this particularly regrettable for all the members of the Flemish Movement, who have fought so long to turn Dutch into an educational language and then an academic language. Like Mrs Pas, I also learned by radio that Flemish Prime Minister Bourgeois at UCL, the University of Louvain-la-Neuve, advocated the importance of Dutch in university education. That debate is currently under way, because some universities are all too eager to english masters. It is a pity, however, that a member of the Prime Minister's party in the Federal Chamber is doing the opposite of what the Prime Minister is doing. In my opinion, lessons can be taught in other languages, depending on the forum language. It makes no sense, for example, to teach Belgian constitutional law in English, since the forum languages are Dutch and French, not English. Other languages should be able, if they are the forum languages of one or other discipline. However, it is quite obvious that there should be a full place for Dutch in the academic programmes. We shall therefore vote in favour of Mrs Pas's amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I have listened carefully to the speeches, I believe that there are essentially two rather different questions. First of all, in this draft, we have assumed that the core task of the Royal Military School is to train officers for the army. That means those officers will serve in our Defense Department. To this end, they will receive academic training which corresponds to what is requested at European level and which can therefore withstand any comparison. By the way, Mr Top, if you make comparisons with university courses elsewhere, I kindly advise you to check how many of these university courses were effectively extended. There must be a trend. In any case, we have assumed that a student who enrols in the Royal Military School will do so to become an officer in the army and preferably as soon as possible. It seems clear to me that the candidates will not only receive academic, military and sports education at the KMS, but that they will be recruited as an officer as soon as possible for which they have joined the army, i.e. in their unit. Fernandez Fernandez, you're talking about the Royal Military School and officer training. That is exactly what needs to be done. You know that in 2006, we decided to extend the curriculum from four to five years. After ten years, we find that long-term education or training does not provide a better quality or motivation for our officers. The second element I would like to mention concerning the reduction of study time by one master's year of Social and Military Science is, as you probably know, Mr Top, because you call yourself a defence specialist, that after the first training at the Royal Military School, the training of the military is not over. After the first training course there is a further advanced course with a second and a third cycle. For those who hit, there's even a fourth cycle. You ask whether internships can be built into the study period. That's the point. It's about getting our officers into their unit faster and getting in touch with their actual profession faster. Learning on the job, on the job training, and so on. You were talking about specialization. Well, let them taste DOD and then let them specialize. Mr Bogaert, I listened very carefully to your speech. According to this bill, the master year will indeed be carried out in English. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a number of points on this subject. First of all, I can imagine that it is said that the mother tongues are important for the academic level. I believe that this is effective. Mr Vuye is right. But show me one university course outside the language courses where 12 credits are awarded to the course in one's own language during the bachelor's years. So don't tell me the officers wouldn't know their own language anymore. Don't tell me, Mr Bogaert or anyone else, that this would destroy bilingualism. After all, the second language is also given a lot of attention very quickly. There is absolutely no intention to alter the order of knowledge of the second language in the course of the officer's career. I believe it is essential. Those who like to say that officers should know the language of their people, I can say that this concern is absolutely taken into account. There is nothing to fear in that regard. What's the big difference with most other directions? You should know that today there are more than 90 masters in Flanders who are taught only in English. In the French-speaking part of this country, more than sixty curricula are offered only in English. We are talking about one training which is being converted into English for the following reason. All other universities are most likely to find themselves in an international context. At the Ministry of Defence, 100% will certainly have to work in an international environment. I therefore believe that everyone, especially those who want to take action when it comes to European defence and cooperation at international level, should welcome the fact that we must give our highly technical training in English. In this way, we can offer our officers every opportunity to do so. Finally, Mrs Pas, you say that there is a language barrier for access to the master's programme. I must also say that I am wrong because during the Bachelor's years, the candidate officers are brought to a level in order to be able to join the Master's programme. I suspect, Mrs Pas, that you agree with me that one must succeed in his Bachelor's programme before one can start in the Master's programme. In this respect, I have absolutely no understanding for your statement that education in the KMS would be a Community decline. I don't see the connection between the two. I'm actually surprised that from your point of view, there's suddenly a huge interest in institutions that are called royal. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that those who are convinced that defence is entitled to well-trained and motivated officers, who can operate both within our own defence and in the international environment, will still reflect on their voting behaviour. In fact, they have no other choice, they have to take responsibility for this and support this bill so that our KMS can have a good future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u107	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u108	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2541/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2541/5) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u109	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 4 to • 1.. Barbara Pas (2541/6) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment retained, the articles retained and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u110	Sustained: the vote on the amendment and Rules 4 to 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u111	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3, 7 to 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u112	****** Order of business Order of business Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, I propose that the order of business be slightly changed. I've had Mr. Hellings notified to come and defend his bill. In the meantime, I will give a reading of the following communications to be notified to the Chamber, which will take a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u113	The MR Group has given me the candidacy of Mrs Kattrin Jadin as an effective member and of Mr David Clarinval as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The MR Group has sent me the candidature of Ms Kattrin Jadin as an effective member and Mr David Clarinval as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Since there are no other candidates, there should be no vote and I declare Mrs Kattrin Jadin elected as an effective member and Mr David Clarinval elected as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote and I declare Ms Kattrin Jadin elected as an effective member and Mr David Clarinval elected as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u114	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 13 July 2017, a seventh call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 27 July 2017 for the mandates of the Registrar of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 13 July 2017, a seventh call for candidates for the terms of office of Registrar of the Disciplinary Council of the Commission de Regulation de l'Electricité et du Gaz was published in the Moniteur belge on 27 July 2017. The Secretariat of the Disciplinary Board is provided by a Dutch-speaking Registrar and a French-speaking Registrar, both magistrates, who are also elected by the Chamber of Representatives. The secretariat of the Disciplinary Council is entrusted to a Dutch-speaking clerk and a French-speaking clerk, both judges, who are also elected by the House of Representatives. No application was made for the mandate of the Dutch-speaking Registrar. No candidature was submitted for the term of office of Dutch-speaking Registrar. Mr Jean-Pierre Gaudy, Honorary Chairman of the Namur Division of the Labour Court in Liège. The following candidacy was submitted within the prescribed time limit for the term of office of French-speaking clerk: Mr Jean-Pierre Gaudy, Honorary President of the Namur Division of the Labour Court of Liège. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 September 2017, I propose that Mr Jean-Pierre Gaudy's candidacy be declared inadmissible and that an eighth appeal be made to candidates for Registrar's mandates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 September 2017, I propose that you declare Mr Jean-Pierre Gaudy's candidacy inadmissible and publish an eighth call for candidates for the terms of office of Registrar in the Belgian Moniteur. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 20 July 2017, a seventh call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 27 July 2017 for the mandate of Deputy Chairman of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 20 July 2017, a seventh call for candidates for the term of alternate chairman of the Disciplinary Council of the Commission de Regulation de l'Electricité et du Gaz was published in the Moniteur belge on 27 July 2017. The Disciplinary Board shall consist of a chairman and two members, all magistrates, elected by the Chamber of Representatives for a renewable term of six years. The President of the Disciplinary Board must prove his knowledge of Dutch and French. One member is Dutch-speaking, the other French-speaking. The Chamber of Representatives should appoint alternates both for the President and for the members. The Disciplinary Council consists of a President and two members, all judges, who are elected by the House of Representatives for a renewable term of six years. The Chairman of the Disciplinary Council must prove his knowledge of French and Dutch. One member is French-speaking, the other is Dutch-speaking. For both the President and the members, the House of Representatives must appoint alternates. The effective and alternate members were appointed at the plenary session of 24 May 2017 and the effective chair at the plenary session of 20 July 2017. The actual and alternate members were appointed during the plenary meeting on 24 May 2017 and the actual president during the plenary meeting on 20 July 2017. No candidacy for the term of office of deputy chairman was submitted within the prescribed time limit. No candidature has been submitted within the time limit prescribed for the term of office of alternate president. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 September 2017, I propose that you publish an eighth call to candidates for the mandate of deputy chairman of the Disciplinary Board of the CREG in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 September 2017, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur an eighth call for candidates for the term of alternate president of the Disciplinary Council of the CREG. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u115	By letter dated 14 February 2017, Ms Cécile Kruczynski informed that she would resign as a member of the Federal Police of the Supervisory Body on the police information as of 28 February 2017. By letter dated 14 February 2017, Ms.Cécile Kruczynski announced that she would resign, on 28 February 2017, as a member of the Federal Police of the Police Information Review Body. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new French-speaking member of the Federal Police of the Supervisory Body to replace Ms Cécile Kruczynski. The House must therefore proceed to the appointment of a new French-speaking member of the Federal Police of the Supervisory Body to replace Ms. Cécile Kruczynski. The plenary session of 24 April 2014 decided to apply gender parity by category. Mrs Cécile Kruczynski should therefore be replaced by someone of the same sex. The plenary session of 24 April 2014 decided to apply gender parity by category. Ms. Cécile Kruczynski should therefore be replaced by a member of the same sex. The Conference of Presidents of 19 April 2017 found that Ms Maria Zaccaria was the only candidate for the replacement of Ms Cécile Kruczynski as a member of the Federal Police of the Supervisory Body on police information. The Conference of Presidents of 19 April 2017 found that Ms.Maria Zaccaria was the only candidate to replace Ms.Cécile Kruczynski as a member of the Federal Police of the Police Information Review Body. By e-mail of 8 September 2017, Ms Maria Zaccaria forwarded a copy of the security clearance of the level "very secret." By e-mail of 8 September 2017, Maria Zaccaria transmitted a copy of the security clearance at the "very secret" level. Since there is only one candidate, Ms Maria Zaccaria may, pursuant to Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure, be declared a member of the Federal Police of the Supervisory Body on the police information. Since there is only one candidate, the Chamber may declare Ms. Maria Zaccaria elected as a member of the Federal Police of the Police Information Review Body pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of the Chamber. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u116	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 29 June 2017, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 4 July 2017 for the mandate of an effective French-speaking member of the Standing Supervisory Committee of the intelligence and security services, in place of Mr Gérald Vande Walle. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of June 29, 2017, a call for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of July 4, 2017 for the term of effective Francophone member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, replacing Mr.Gérald Vande Walle. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Olivier Mazy, attorney at the P Committee; - Mr Laurent Van Doren, Chief Constable of the Orne-Thyle Police Zone. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Olivier Mazy, Legal Officer of the P Committee; - Mr. Laurent Van Doren, Chief of Staff of the Orne-Thyle Police Area. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 September 2017, the curriculum vitae of the candidates was sent to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 September 2017, the curricula vitae of the candidates were transmitted to the political groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u117	According to the decision of the plenary session of 6 July 2017, a call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 11 July 2017 for the mandate of a male Dutch speaking member of the local police of the Supervisory Body on the police information. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 6 July 2017, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 11 July 2017 for the term of office of Dutch-speaking male member of the local police of the Police Information Review Body. By letter dated 17 July 2017, Mr Steven De Luyck submitted his candidacy. However, by e-mail of 8 August 2017, he withdrew his candidacy. By letter dated 17 July 2017, Steven De Luyck applied. However, by e-mail dated August 8, 2017, he withdrew his application. So no applications were submitted. As a result, no applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 September 2017, I propose that you publish a second appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of male Dutch speaking member of the local police of the Supervisory Body on police information. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 September 2017, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Monitor a second call for candidates for the term of office of Dutch-speaking male member of the local police of the Police Information Review Body. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u118	The mandate of the members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on embryos in vitro expired on 21 June 2016. The terms of office of the members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos expired on June 21, 2016. The members of the Federal Commission shall be appointed by the Chamber of Representatives. Candidates to the Federal Commission should be addressed to the Minister for Health. The members of the Federal Commission shall be appointed by the House of Representatives. Applications for the Federal Commission should be addressed to the Minister of Public Health. In accordance with Article 9 (2) of the Law of 11 May 2003 on embryo research in vitro, the Commission shall consist of: - eight doctors (four effective members and four alternates); - eight PhDs in science (four effective members and four alternates); - four lawyers (two effective members and two alternates); - eight experts in the ethical and social sciences (four effective members and four alternates). In accordance with Article 9(2) of the Act of 11 May 2003 on research into in vitro embryos, the Commission shall consist of: - eight medical doctors (four actual members and four alternate members); - eight Doctors of Science (four full members and four alternate members); - four jurists (two effective members and two alternate members); - eight experts in ethical matters and social sciences (four active members and four alternate members). The plenary session of 9 March 2017 decided to ask the Public Health Office to publish a new call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, as Mr Pedro Facon, Director General of the Public Health Office, had informed by letter dated 16 February 2017 that insufficient applications had been submitted. The plenary session of 9 March 2017 decided to ask the SPF Santé publique to publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor, since Mr Pedro Facon, Director General of the SPF Santé publique, had communicated, by letter of 16 February 2017, that an insufficient number of applications had been submitted. By letter dated 7 August 2017, Mr Pedro Facon notified the applications submitted in the Belgian Official Journal of 26 April 2017 as a result of the call for candidates. By letter of 7 August 2017, Mr Pedro Facon transmitted the applications which had been submitted following the appeal to the candidates published in the Belgian Monitor of 26 April 2017. Six additional applications were submitted but there are still no candidates for the following mandates: - a Dutch-speaking doctor and a French-speaking doctor; - three French-speaking PhDs in science; - two French-speaking experts in the ethical problems and social sciences. Six additional nominations have been submitted, but there are still no nominations for the following terms: - a doctor in Dutch-speaking medicine and a doctor in French-speaking medicine; - three Doctors in French-speaking sciences; - two experts in ethical problems and francophone social sciences. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 September 2017, I propose to ask the Public Health Office to publish a new call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 September 2017, I propose that you ask the Public Health FPS to publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u119	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Benoit Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt, Jean-Marc Nollet, Georges Gilkinet, Stefaan Van Hecke, Evita Willaert The Committee on Defence proposes that this bill be rejected. (965/4) The National Defence Commission proposes to reject this bill. (965/4) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u120	Mr President, thank you for your flexibility in organizing the debates. This bill is part of a general struggle between Ecolo and Groen to make more transparent the decisions concerning the sale of arms and the related budgets, which will weigh on several generations. Consider, for example, the latest military budget, estimated by Defence itself at $15 billion over 40 years. It is therefore important that decisions be made as transparently as possible. Today – this is the purpose of our bill – parliamentarians, as well as citizens in associations, should be allowed to know the various contacts that decision-makers usually have with the defence industry and its lobbyists, in order to better understand how these decisions are made and to ensure that they are in the public interest. The concept of "decision-makers" is understood broadly: the Minister of Defence, the members of his cabinet, the officials concerned, the military, as well as parliamentarians and all other persons associated with the public authorities involved in these choices. Thanks to colleagues from the majority, we were fortunate enough to be able to hold hearings to prepare this bill. We were thus able to hear the lobbyists themselves, who were seeking some form of regulation, legislation governing their profession. They wish to show that their relations with either decision-maker take place within a legal framework and wish to convince - through legislation and supervision - of the merits of their work. The reason why we tabled this bill is, of course, to be found in the precedent of the Agusta-Dassault case, which covered the chronicle several decades ago, but which has above all demonstrated the existence of a close link between lobbyists active in the defence sector and delicate markets - which are so in so far as they relate to weapons and involve astronomical amounts. There is also, of course, the topicality of the F-16 replacement market. We recently learned that three out of five competitors were withdrawing. We also read in the press that the reason why Dassault, Saab (for the Gripen apparatus) and a third manufacturer is that they perceive a preference supported in the specifications of this contract, but also on the part of the authorities who will have to make a decision, for one of their competitors, the F-35 of Lockeed Martin not to name it. This law would not only make it possible to know the links between the defence industry and the political decision-makers in Belgium, but would also enable the defence industry and the decision-makers, i.e. the government, to show that there is no preference or in any case that this preference does not have an effective basis through contacts. Of course, the majority has decided to postpone this text, despite the various amendments we have made. For example, beyond the fact that the various decision-makers have to declare their own contacts with lobbyists in the defence industry, we have proposed to improve the text as a result of hearings and discussions with our majority colleagues to ensure that a registry of defence lobbyists can be maintained in Belgium. That was refused. It's a missed opportunity but rely on the Greens to keep typing on the nail. From the next legislature, possibly with a new majority, we will resubmit this proposal to ensure that transparency prevails over the darkness of the alcoves from which decisions that have a very important impact on future generations are made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u121	Mr President, Mr Hellings, thank you for your explanation. I shall be very neutral about what happened in the three committee meetings devoted to the proposal. Mr President, I would particularly like to focus on the four reasons why the proposal was rejected by a majority of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to point out that the whole committee is in favour of transparency. Let's get that straight. The discussion soon focused on whether we would apply the existing transparency rules or whether we would implement new rules, such as the proposal on the table. There are four main reasons why Mr Hellings' proposal was rejected by a majority of the committee. Firstly, there was discussion about the definition of a lobbyist. The legislative proposal, before and after the amendments, still contains a very vague statement of what is a lobbyist. I would like to clarify this by means of two-person speeches. There is, as you can see on page 4 of the report, Mr Sébastian Pirlot, who supports the demand for transparency and a more detailed framework for the activities of lobby groups. His group has already made proposals to this effect. However, on the basis of the introductory statement, the speaker expressed two reservations. On the one hand, there is the question of why such a register is limited to military purchases. On the other hand, the bill provides for a far too broad definition of lobbyists and lobbying. Mrs Grosemans, on behalf of her group, stated that she could support a code of conduct and the register proposed by the authors. At the same time, however, she noted that the legislative proposal before us raises questions: what is the definition of a lobbyist? Is a union without legal personality also a lobbyist? What do we do with NGOs or think tanks? A second reason for the rejection is that there is already transparency in the Special Commission for Army Purchases and within Defence. Within the Ministry of Defence there is a register of files in which large purchases are made. A third reason is that this proposal would stigmatize Defense and even open a witch hunt for a number of people within the Defense Department. I want to prove that again, Mr President, with two extracts from the report. On page 5, you can read that Mrs Grosemans claims that the proposal before us tends towards a witch hunt. However, honour requires recognition that lobbying is a reality in today's democracy. I myself have said that this bill starts from the point of view that would be given to rear chamber politics when it comes to large investments. In order to cast off the stigma of the past, where things have indeed gone wrong, it is important to treat defence in the same way as other public institutions. One last reason, and an important evolution in the discussion of this bill in the committee, is that at that time, in spring this year, there was parallel work on transparency within the Political Renewal Working Group. The establishment of a register is one of the measures on which the agreement is open. This was also discussed in the committee and both the opposition and the majority parties, and even a member of your group, Mr De Vriendt, mentioned that it was indeed discussed there. It was too little for you, but for a majority of the committee it was very good to see that there is an agreement in the Political Renewal Working Group and that we will continue to work with that agreement. Finally, and following on from what Mr Hellings said, I would add that there was no discussion in committee about the content of the file on the replacement of the F-16 and the lobbying around it. After that, we heard that three candidates had dropped out, but the committee never said that lobbying would be a reason why three of the five candidates had dropped out. Hopefully I have reported very neutral with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u122	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the final text is not yet available, but it is being worked on. I assume that quite a few people here know the text and also know which amendments were adopted in committee earlier. In the meantime, I see that the text is being distributed to the leaders of the political groups. The text is available to other Members on my right. I therefore propose that we begin the discussion. Of course, we will not vote on this text as long as we do not have the final version, which will be delivered electronically to all Members. Can everyone agree to that? A copy of the text has been manually corrected and completed, but we are waiting for the final text, in PDF format, to be delivered electronically. Is everyone okay with this way of working? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u124	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u125	Mr President, I understand that I have to report on the first discussion of the important draft law which aims to harmonise the buying-in, as is said for the sake of convenience, of the periods of study and this for the calculation of the pension. The aim is to harmonise employees, self-employed persons and civil servants. This bill was discussed in March, April and May. There is a written record of this in the documents of the Chamber. I would like to refer to that in order not to fail in the remarks made by my fellow Members during the discussion. There has been an intermediate phase for a conflict of interest......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Amendments were tabled by Mr Fonck and by Mr Clarinval, Mr Van Quickenborne, Mr Spooren and myself to the committee. The final result of the vote was 11 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 4 abstentions in favour of the amendments themselves, without many substantive comments. This is therefore my oral report from the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee just now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u126	Mr. Speaker, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are now in our final discussion before this bill is passed. I would be tempted to say that this is particularly controversial, if not criticized. It changes the way in which periods of study are taken into account for the amount of the pension. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this is your last chance to step back so as not to particularly penalize the public service and our future pensioners once again. Let's just say it clearly. Under the pretext of harmonization, the government wants to generalize the less favourable system. Many of our fellow citizens will have to pay, or they will see the amount of their pension reduced. In fact, there is a downward harmonisation. It will punish public service workers, but also some self-employed workers, which was highlighted during the debates. By 2016, the PS had pulled the alarm bell about this file. We have denounced this measure announced by the MR/N-VA government. You then shouted at misinformation, saying that there was no question of removing diploma bonuses in the calculation of the pension. As you said, but today we see that, for the public service, you are effectively removing the automatic inclusion of years of study in the calculation of the pension. Again, the citizens have been deceived by your statements, and this is not the first time. I will take two emblematic examples. Should we recall that the MR had made a commitment not to receive 65-year-old pension or indexation? Beautiful promises that, every time, disappear. Instead, you always impose more savings on pensioners. According to estimates by the Federal Office of the Plan, savings would amount to more than 700 million euros by 2060, on the back of pensioners. It is therefore not a question of harmonisation, nor of social justice. It is only a question of charging future pensioners for the unfair policy of the MR/N-VA government. Many experts, like us, have challenged this reform. Firstly, there are the social partners of the FEB at the FGTB – it is rare – which, on 19 December 2016, unanimously gave a negative opinion on the project. As usual, with a form of contempt for social consultation, you have simply decided to sit down on this opinion. Secondly, the Finance Inspectorate was particularly concerned about the budgetary burden for future generations of the transitional measure you are planning. Here too, some members of the majority, particularly the Open Vld, have made it seem to be a matter of concern. But finally, the text is still there and nothing has changed. The Council of State also made a fundamental criticism by stressing that the measure, especially in combination with others, could constitute a significant reduction in social rights, which is contrary to our Constitution. The advisers of this high authority are not fooled. The continued attacks by the government make it more difficult to access a dignified pension. The Council on Equal Opportunities for Men and Women not only highlighted the fact that the government's project was negative for public sector workers, but also and above all drew our attention to the great risk of discrimination that exists in this project between women and men. Indeed, this measure may further weaken women, who already have more difficulty building a full career. In committee, Minister, you have deliberately – but this may be a trial of intent – thrown a smokescreen, first by refusing any serious and independent study in this area. We had time, though. You see how much time we spent analyzing this file. Then, by trying to make it seem that your project is, ultimately, beneficial to women, which is obviously wrong. As far as the independents are concerned, we had an interesting discussion with your colleague at the time, Mr Borsus, who was in charge of the matter. He told us that in the self-employed system, 4.3 per cent of men regularize their years of study, compared with only 1.4 per cent of women. In addition, the self-employed regularize on average 5.2 years, compared with 4.7 years for the self-employed. It is therefore the men who buy the most their years of study, they are the ones who "profit the most" from the ability to redeem. Why would it be different in your system? Among employees, men benefit most from the measure: 0.4%, compared with 0.1%. You have been so far as to say that allowing the purchase of years of study beyond the ten years will make it easier for women to complete their careers, implying that it will be beneficial to them. But, Minister, the situation of the self-employed shows that it is not the women who have regularized their years of education the most. Moreover, after ten years, regularizing these years of study will be expensive. And let's not talk about public services, which the attack particularly targets! In public services, it is mainly women who will have to pay or have their pensions reduced. This will affect 58% of women. According to the Centre of Expertise, this higher proportion of women is due in particular to the number of teachers. There has been a lot of discussion about these teachers, who are indeed involved in this bill. You may try to minimize this reality behind examples that, sometimes, are truncated or result from transitional periods, but no one is fooled. You also know that there is a great unknown, which we discussed earlier in committee with Mrs Fonck, on the subject of the abolition of preferential tantèmes. Among other things, it is announced that teachers' preferences will be abolished. I regret the fact that this may eventually happen. You have never committed to keeping this plan for teachers. There is therefore a blur and this measure is taken before you know what will happen to these tantèmes. Let's be very clear. With the project, this government is already in part calling into question the well-deserved preferential system of teachers, since the years purchased will no longer benefit, as is the case at present, from the application of the system of the tyranny preferences. Indeed, for one part, it will be in sixtieths. There is already a challenge to the system. Once again, the government creates anxiety and uncertainty among future pensioners. This has partly justified the conflict of interest procedure initiated by the Assembly of the French Community Commission, a rather exceptional procedure. This demonstrates the seriousness of the situation. During this procedure, you were unable to convince and, above all, you remained encamped in your positions. Of the more than EUR 731 million in savings that the Federal Planning Office mentioned and which I quoted earlier, 700 will be on the backs of state, regional, community and local government officials. They will lose the automatic and free consideration of their years of study, while the diploma is a requirement for recruitment and it is a measure that contributes to the attractiveness of the public sector. But we know what consideration you have for public service. It should be noted that salaries are lower in the public service than in the private sector, which is the reason for this particular pension scheme. Minister, you must stop saying that you are increasing pensions. Of course, it is true that some of them are being increased, in particular thanks to the welfare envelope. You have to stop saying that you are increasing pensions as you impose savings. We are several hundred million already saved on pensions and therefore on pensioners! As a result of this legislation, pension amounts will fall for some of these future pensioners, for these workers, especially those who will not have the opportunity to buy back the years of education and who will no longer be able to have them. This has been demonstrated in the examples. Don't say no. In the examples you distributed, I was able to get you to admit – and your chief of staff was at your side – that the gross annual pension amount was decreasing as a result of this reform. The documents related to the commission can be taken back. One of the examples cited showed a loss of €1,138 per year. This amount represents the loss incurred by a person who will not have the ability to redeem his or her years of education. Beyond this fundamental criticism of the public sector and the teachers I mentioned earlier, the system is not transparent to anyone. This is also a great criticism. We don't know where we're going. It's not transparent for anyone, for no worker. Whether they are civil servants, employees, or self-employed, they will not know, if your text passes, whether they have to buy back or not their years of study. This is obviously dramatic because it is a considerable amount of money that needs to be invested and it is not known whether the system at any given time will allow for a supplementary pension or how much. What do we see? It can be seen that only those who are close to their pension and therefore have a virtually complete vision of their career will know whether they have an interest in buying back their years of education during the transitional period or not. For all the others, it will therefore be a true lottery. This means that some will buy back their years of education for nothing! They will buy back for nothing, all the more so as we are in a context of sausageed reforms – we were talking about them at length yesterday morning – which have purely budgetary objectives where all the rules are questioned. For the various reasons I have just explained to you, you will have understood that my group will vote resolutely against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u127	Mr President, I will respond very briefly from my bank. We have had very long discussions in committee and we have also lost a lot of time with the conflict of interest that has been invoked, but I am glad that we can adopt this draft law today. It is an important bill that fits in with the general pension strategy of this government. An important pillar of our pension strategy is the harmonisation of the various pension systems. The present draft law harmonises the systems of civil servants, employees and self-employed persons. Moreover, it is not easy to harmonise. The draft law does justice to inconsistencies and even injustice. Officials could count their years of study for free, while employees had to pay for it for years. In that sense, it is logical and just. For us, it was always important for the new system to be introduced to be actuarially correct, which means that the buy-back price will increase as the retirement age approaches. It has not become a cheap redemption system, but it has never been the intention, because we want to harmonise it into a fair system without shifting its costs to future generations. It is now possible for civil servants, employers and the self-employed to regularise a few years of study in order to build up the pension, but in many cases it remains financially more attractive to work longer, which is also a pillar of pension policy. As in all pension schemes, transitional measures had to be introduced now. There was some discussion about this transitional arrangement, including within the government. In the end, a compromise has been found that we can agree with. I think it is important now to have a good information campaign. Like many pension files, the current draft law is fairly complex, yet it has a very direct, large impact on many citizens. The Minister has confirmed that he will immediately launch an information campaign. In this respect, as we have just discussed in committee, I think it is right that we should finally be able to adopt this draft law today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u128	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of a lengthy legislative procedure on the important issue of the diploma bonus. In fact, the possibility of taking years of study into account in calculating his pension already exists. But the system is complex and unknown and, in fact, few workers use it. In addition, today, this system has a large difference in treatment according to the regime in which the worker takes his hours. Thus, as long as the diploma is a condition for appointment, staff members benefit from the bonus free of charge. This is not the case for employees and self-employed persons. For the former, the purchase of the years of study can take place only during the first ten years after the end of these studies; for the latter, this buy-back is possible until the end of the career, but subject to a substantial regularisation contribution. Thus, less than 1% of employees use it. For the self-employed, the rate is only 5% for men and 2% for women. The rates for civil servants are still far from those of 38 per cent for men and 58 per cent for women. Not all workers are therefore housed in the same sign. The main objective of this reform is to put an end to these differences by offering all workers, regardless of their status, the possibility of valuing their years of study according to similar rules in the calculation of their pension and at the same time increasing the amount of their pension. It should be stressed that the Pension Reform Commission had adopted a different position, aimed at abolishing all bonus schemes, a path which the government did not want to follow. The terms accompanying each pension reform are "harmonisation of schemes" and "correlation between professional career and pension amount". In the bill before us today, therefore, there is no longer any difference depending on the status of the worker. From now on, it is possible to buy back your studies by paying a regularisation fee of EUR 1,500 if the application takes place during the first 10 years of activity or on the basis of an actuarial calculation for the following years. This means that the regularization contribution will be set in proportion to the pension rights that the taking into account of the diploma will generate. As is customary, the government has provided for a transitional period as well as exceptions. Thus, a period of three years from the date of entry into force is granted to anyone who wishes to regularize his situation and benefit from the benefits of the measure. In addition, the Government has chosen to maintain the acquired rights for public servants' pensions in the years in which they have been granted. The staff member will also benefit from a 15% reduction in the amount of the contribution if the application for regularisation is submitted within two years of the entry into force of the new provisions. This project therefore offers the possibility for many workers to increase the amount of their pension in full transparency and fairness with, in addition, a tax advantage over the amounts paid. In our view, the project thus drawn up should have received a favourable reception from everyone, but contrary to all expectations, this was not the case. The main challenge identified by the social partners is to say that the reform will result in a loss of pension in the head of civil servants. That's not true! The new scheme proposes to maintain the rights of each worker under the "official" scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u129	Mr.Clarinval, how can you say that public servants will not lose anything when yesterday the consideration of their years of study was automatic and that from now on they will have to pay for their years of study to be taken into consideration? I can't understand your reasoning, but you're going to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u130	The acquired rights, Mr. Daerden, to which you are very attached, are acquired! What has been done in the past is preserved. For the future, there will be a change; we agree! But no one today, in the present state of affairs, will lose it. The career will continue to be promoted through the transition method.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u131	Yes, but the rules change in part: when they were hired and appointed to the Public Service, their years of education were valued for their entire career. With this project, it will be until today and more tomorrow. Do you recognize that they're losing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u132	Until today, they have lost absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u133	Their lives don't stop today! Fortunately for them!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u134	Until today, they don't lose anything. For the future, the rules are very clear, they know them. A transitional period will be introduced. There are always changes in legislation. When you were hired, the tax rules were those, but the laws change as you know, Mr. Daerden.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u135	Mr Clarinval, I would like to speak about this kind exchange. You are right: laws and rules can change. Just, once we change them, we take it! You change them, so you have to assume that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and again thereafter, there will be a negative impact on the pensions of the persons concerned. You can tell anything, but coming to the gallery to say that you are changing things and that it will have no impact on anyone is unacceptable. When we change a policy, we assume the consequences, even negative ones! Otherwise, it's called fooling people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u136	That's not what we said. We have said that until today the rules are maintained. Transitional periods are also foreseen to allow everyone to adapt to the new rules. It is true that those who will start a career in teaching in a few years...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u137	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u138	The rest of the career, Mrs. Fonck! You know that very well! As a result of this debate, which, as you can see, has not been closed, there has been the conflict of interest procedure with the French Community, which has wasted considerable time on the implementation of this important reform, while the government has remained open to discussion. We believe that there has been a misinformation, a form of fliber, using this conflict of interest for these purposes which were not desirable. This has forced us to table an amendment to this day so that the entry into force of the text is postponed. Whatever some think, I would like to point out that this project is positive for all, that it brings greater equity between workers, that it offers the possibility for everyone, whatever their status, to value according to the same rules of years of study in the calculation of their pension. It therefore enables everyone to benefit from a better pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, I can inform you that the final text has now been sent to all Members electronically.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are faced with a rather important draft, which states that years of study can be bought off, as is popularly said for the calculation of pensions, but not for the retirement career. That is a first point on which everyone should be clear. In fact, this is partly complementary to an earlier draft which decided on the phasing-out of the diploma certificate for officials. The same officials are now given the opportunity to do so by means of a system of redemption, while at the same time, at the same time, that was certainly an equally important element in the government agreement for many people, the attempt is being made to harmonise the system of payback of years of study as it exists today. Today, an employee can bring in and buy the years of study to get a higher pension, but he can only do so during the first ten years. If a self-employed person wants to buy off his studies in order to obtain a higher pension, he can do so until the end of his career. In the past, there was indeed a system for permanent officials whereby, if the diploma requirement was an element in recruitment to public office, they could include an increase in their pension throughout their career free of charge compared to employees and self-employed persons...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In fact, that was not entirely correct since civil servants' pensions were calculated on the last five ears. In this way, that number of years was included in the whole. Ultimately, this draft aims at great harmonisation and uniformity. This important element is one of the strengths of this design. A further positive element is the relaxation of the age condition, in the sense that study years from the age of 18 will be able to count while earlier this was only from 20 years old. We must also dare to say what positive points the whole system offers to the people. A third element which I am very proud of is that not only university or higher education is included in the system of recognition and valorisation of the years of study for the career, but also higher non-university education, the seventh years of specialisation, and higher vocational education are regulated and included in the system of disposal. I am grateful to all my fellow Members for supporting this. It is an important signal to young people that vocational and entrepreneurial training is also socially valuable and fully reflected in careers. To date this has only been the case for higher and university education. In this way we can give more career opportunities to young people who are influxing into important economic sectors in Flanders. Think of the retail sector. It is important that this element is followed up in the recognition of diplomas in order to implement the system. Will future pensioners have to fear for their pension? I know there's a lot of uncertainty. We must all try to inform people as correctly as possible. We should not tell people things that are not true, but we should inform them as correctly as possible. In the end, this will allow the academic years to be regularised at a cost-effective rate of EUR 1 500 for three years. I don't know about your situation, but I've been an employee in my younger years. I then asked people who could know if I needed to regularize my pension or not. That was not recommended to me, because it was said to be too expensive and so on. Today it is possible to do so, at a reasonable rate. However, it concerns a transitional period of three years, after which the costs of regularisation are determined by the time at which the application for regularisation is made. In this way one has a view of some of the actuarial calculations. At the same time, the phasing out or phasing out of the diploma certificate................................................................................................................................................................... In this way, the acquired rights and legitimate expectations that people have are fully respected. We think that's important. That's right, I mean. In all reforms relating to pensions, we take the view that we do not make any changes that affect people who are no longer able to correct these consequences by any other means of action or by making other choices. In this sense, it is logical that the years of study can be taken into account pro rata free of charge for the previous career. This was also a concern of the social partners, which is answered in this way. The principle is that this regularization enables people to generate a higher pension amount by paying a regularisation contribution that can be deducted taxly. In this way, there is also a payback effect. You know, Minister, that we have been very concerned about net and gross amounts and that we believe that people need to be clear that a higher pension will effectively lead to a higher net pension rather than a net reduction in their pension. I think I have heard from my fellow Members from the Finance Committee that the draft law laying down various provisions will ensure that the gross effect of diploma regulation can result in a net effect. This was one of our main concerns. It may be a disadvantage that the procedure has taken a while, but the advantage is that the vote in committee will clarify that the risk of tax punishment will no longer be there. There have indeed been delays due to the conflict of interest. That is why we are approving a number of amendments today, which move all deadlines by six months. However, there is a thorny point. Pensions are complicated and difficult. It has been regularly said that pensions are for many people how they can bridge a third of their lives with an income of which they are more or less sure. Clarity about new rules remains a very difficult issue. That is why good communication and a transparent explanation to people are very important. You promised me that too, Minister. After all, today people ask me questions about what is happening now: do I do it or not, what does the design mean for me in my career, will it bring something if I do it? Our children are also wondering what it means very concretely to them. It is important that you send a very clear message, Minister, and very clear information to the people about the transitional periods and the transitional amounts. Young people must also be made aware of the opportunities, opportunities and potential risks, because, of course, they will never know in advance how a career will go. After all, there will always be an element of uncertainty in the whole. In newspapers like De Tijd they saw tools appear for calculations about what it could possibly bring. Of course, there are still certain risk factors, such as the length of a career, whether one becomes ill or so. However, we ask you to ensure, as far as possible, that clear information is available, including a tool that can clarify the opportunities and possibilities. We have a right to security, so that we do not have to rely on the different agencies that offer such things. The government has to offer that guarantee. It is important to ensure this, so that the present design can succeed in reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u141	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, several Members have already explained what we are going to vote on, namely the harmonization of diplomas. In my opinion, the past few weeks have shown very clearly that this government's pension policy suffers from a lack of vision, coherence and clarity. Again and again we are confronted with proposals that are not based on a vision, but on a savings logic. The harmonization of diploma certificates also has a budgetary objective. Although the possible long-term budgetary implications are not taken into account, they should help the budget a little in the short term. The explanatory memorandum, on page 10 of this draft law, refers to the report of the Treasury Inspectorate. It states very clearly that there is only a positive balance for the period 2017-2019. After that, there is a negative balance. This is not a problem for this government because that is after this period of government. The Council of State also notes in its report, partly referring to the report of the Treasury Inspectorate, that the regularisation contribution that some staff will pay will have a positive effect in the short term, but may have a negative impact in the long term because it will, of course, open up new rights by those who contribute. The conclusion was that the potential increase in expenditure on pensions is alarming. Moreover, this measure is based on very difficult figures to estimate. We have had to urge the Minister to get the report from the Treasury Inspectorate. In the end, the Minister gave it to us, but, as is often the case, the Minister also ignores this report. Minister, I think it is clear to you that if we want to carry things out, we must strive for broad support. I am not just saying that, but that is also one of the principles of the Pensions Commission, to which you are so keen to refer. A broad consensus, vision and coherence must also be translated into clarity to the people. Only in this way will it be possible to implement your reforms in a coherent way. Once again, we have seen over the last few months that this broad consensus is not there and that the confusion over a number of proposals is an asset. You have just confirmed in committee that you are going to have a lot of questions about this, too. Minister, I think that every member of this assembly who has a little to do with pensions gets a lot of questions from people because it is not clear to them at all anymore. This is also the case here. Initially, you communicated that the investment would be recouped within three to four years. You were flogged back by your own services. Members of the majority also quickly refuted this, also because there was then the retirement trap. It has been said that people have to pay attention and first have to calculate whether it is advantageous for them to buy off their academic years or not. Yesterday in the Finance Committee, on a proposal from Minister Van Overtveldt, we adopted a proposal to remedy the fall in pensions. However, this proposal is provisional and not yet final. It was also not possible to say whether it would apply to this. So people still won't know for sure. Transparency in this area is very important because which employee, official or self-employed person will be willing to buy off his years of study if he or she does not know what precise consequences that will have for his or her pension? It is also quite clear that the services have also said this for someone close to his pension. For someone who starts his or her career, this is of course impossible to calculate, because one does not know what the career will bring in the future. Again, a very great uncertainty for young people. Is it advantageous for them to buy years of study? Yes or no? Many bodies have pointed this out, including the Treasury Inspectorate, but the Family Association also said that there are many dangers. It would be very detrimental to many people, but one cannot know exactly whether this will be beneficial if one really does it. Colleagues have already referred to it. Your proposal was unanimously rejected by the social partners, but this, as usual, is also yours. This government has the mouths of social consultation, but you have also placed this next to you. I hope, as you referred to earlier in the Communication Committee, that the tool that several colleagues and I have asked for and which should come into mypension so that people can actually calculate whether it is beneficial or not, will be there soon. In any case, this will be impossible for young people because, once again, they do not know the career. Mr Daerden has also pointed out in detail that this is very detrimental to officials, because they are losing their automatic recognition of their years of study. It is detrimental to officials in general, but especially to teachers, also because there are many women there. This was also demonstrated in the conflict of interest. In the French Community Commission (COCOF), as many as 75% of the members of the legislative assembly voted in favour of the conflict of interest. Even the Flemish Minister, at the time you launched the draft, pointed out the dangers for the teacher's profession. The profession of teacher is currently under enormous pressure. The number of burn-outs in that professional category is very high. The Flemish minister also wants to do everything in his power to increase the attractiveness of the profession. What you are doing, with the abolition of diploma certificates, is making the profession of teacher much less attractive. The COCOF has sent a clear signal. I thought it was naive as I was, because I'd never experienced a conflict of interest before. We have sat together with the various parliaments, but the majority of my fellow Members were barely present, Minister. They didn't care at all. It was a non-discussion. It didn't make any sense. The conflict of interest was then brought before the Senate, where it was even worse if possible. There the MR submitted a text, but that text was meaningless and did not add anything to the debate. A conflict of interest is not a waste of time, Mr. Spoorten. Democracy cannot be a waste of time, but one must take it seriously, which has not been done by the majority. The two fundamental criticisms of this reform are the following, Minister. With this design you are partly concerned with the individualization of pensions. Our legal pensions are a collective system based on intergenerational solidarity, but also on solidarity within the systems. Our ancestors have in the past organised that system in that way because it offers the most guarantees of the protection of everyone. What you are doing now is to proceed with a piece of privatisation of some of the pensions. Instead of a compulsory contribution and a solidarity pension, this is now replaced by a voluntary boarding scheme with individual benefits. This is a start but I know that this is the underlying idea for a lot of people and a lot of parties within this government to gradually move more and more towards individualisation. Minister, this is detrimental to the future of our social system. That's a criticism. The second major criticism is social inequality. Everyone is entitled to a strong and good pension, male or female, young or old, high or low-skilled, civil servant, self-employed or employee. Everyone is entitled to a strong and good pension. However, Minister, this measure does nothing about it. Instead of harmonising, this measure actually increases inequality. After all, who can buy off their years of study? The one who went to college. A person who starts working very early cannot build an additional pension in this way, only those who have studied. Those who have studied usually also have a higher wage and therefore usually a higher pension. Those people are once again given the opportunity to raise their pensions. People who have not studied, who usually have a much lower wage and who therefore usually also have a much lower pension, cannot do this. You say there was discrimination between civil servants and employees. No, there was solidarity within the civil servants' system and there was solidarity within the workers' systems. If this is to be harmonised and made equal, it should also have been possible for those who have not studied to find a way to increase their pensions. The government always pretends to be more social than the Pension Reform Committee, but that committee actually wanted to abolish the Diploma Certificate, equal for everyone. That would probably have been more honest, very detrimental to the officials but more honest. Now you're gonna take advantage of who's got it right again. Whoever will have a good pension will have an even better pension at the end of his career. After all, the committee has also put forward a whole series of other proposals to harmonise pensions and, above all, to improve pensions for the lower categories. Your bill doesn't do that at all. However, the opinions on this matter, which you have all adopted alongside you, were very clear. The Equal Opportunities Council for Men and Women not only expressed budgetary concerns, which I mentioned earlier, but above all said that social protection will significantly reduce. That again refers to those who need it most. There is also the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State makes it very clear that the general interest of the reform is not sufficiently demonstrated to justify such a significant deterioration in the social rights of certain groups. However, as usual, you are also putting that down next to you. We've asked for an impact analysis. The impact analysis produced by your cabinet did not include or analyse those critical opinions, as you simply put them next to you. Mr Minister, my conclusion is that harmonization of diploma certificates is a leveling down. This harmonisation creates uncertainty. You yourself have just confirmed that many people have a lot of questions. Social inequality is being increased and the low-skilled, civil servants and women are being disadvantaged. There is no guarantee of long-term budgetary health. Your bill leaves everyone with a lot of questions and unclearness. People want guarantees, clarity and certainty. People want, above all, a plan with which they will have a good and strong pension in the future. You're just creating chaos. It is therefore clear that we will vote against your draft law. I would like to inform colleagues from the opposition that we will abstain in the vote on the amendments. We believe that the present draft law is so bad that it cannot be improved in any way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u142	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is an umpteenth pension bill. Its sole objective is to challenge workers' rights in this respect. Once again, this text is not assumed as such, but enjoined by a good reason. I heard Mr Clarinval explain that this was a good harmonisation measure and that no one would lose it. However, the Plan Office estimates the savings that will be generated at several hundred million euros. If savings are programmed, it means that you will reduce interventions in the area of pensions. As a result, workers will lose. The recurring difficulty is that you move forward without taking on your project or presenting an overall vision. In addition, there is no social consensus, so that you generate anxiety. I am not even talking about the EUR 200 million in savings that are announced and that you have not even detailed – particularly yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs. This will result in transfers from the pension budget to the sickness benefit budget. Indeed, with the decline in the age of retirement without compensatory measures, it can be seen that the default path taken by workers is to find themselves in a situation of incapacity. Like others before him, this text will remove rights. When I say "like others before him", I am talking about the index jump that has applied to all social beneficiaries, with partial correction for some pensioners; the questioning of assimilated periods; the linear extension of career duration without compensatory measures; the suppression of the possibilities of credit-time – which are nevertheless forms of sharing working time and of relaxing the career. The rights that you will withdraw today relate to the possibility of taking into account the years of study in the calculation of the pension. Who are you going to take them from? [[Mainly to teachers.]] I should say: mainly to female teachers, since we know that this function is particularly feminized – more than 70% of our teaching staff. This is a fact, if we correlate this information with the fact that the career of workers is often more incomplete than that of workers, for reasons of motherhood and family. In short, it is this audience that you will reach: the workers, the teachers in particular. In order to try to objectify the debate, not to leave it to slogans, and to try to have a scientific analysis – to which I acknowledge that you are attached – we have asked to be able to have particular elements of analysis. There are bodies in Belgium to assess the gender impact of policy choices. This is very positive; they must still be used. You refused to carry out this analysis. The only gender analysis that we have had is that which has been done by your own firm, judge and party in this matter. We asked for an independent analysis. The Council for Equal Opportunities for Men and Women had warned about the impact of this measure, but you did not want to hear it. Similarly, there has been a total lack of consultation with the entities mainly affected by this measure, i.e. the Communities, which are responsible for education. It has been null and void, to the point of arriving at the conflict-of-interest procedure, which, as Mr Clarinval said, is not a dilatory or fliberous measure, but simply a measure of self-defence and alert, provided for as such by our institutional architecture. Indeed, by questioning the system of graduation bonus and taking into account the compulsory years of study in order to become a teacher, you expect the attractiveness of this essential function for our society, which is to educate children, to prepare adults and workers of tomorrow. This is not the first step you take against teachers and the school. We denounced it and this led to this alert procedure initiated by COCOF. Three quarters of the Assembly of the French Community Commission found that there was a problem and an infringement of its powers. We have indeed met in consultation with representatives of the COCOF Parliament and the Social Affairs Committee. I would like to make an institutional parenthesis to see that this arbitration mechanism, which is necessary in a federalism of cooperation, does not work. Is this due to a lack of will? This is certainly linked to political asymmetry, but it is mainly due to a unclear framework, particularly as regards the mode of decision-making within this body, which is brought together between the federal parliament and the federated entity concerned. I think it would be useful to review the functioning of the alarm bell mechanism so that our federalism of cooperation works better, in a context where more and more powers are being transferred and intertwined between the federal and other levels. I come back to my point by noting that this procedure in conflict of interest could not lead to a unanimous opinion or a solution that would have preserved – that was the objective of the position that we had defended in the Committee on Social Affairs and which was defended at COCOF by our colleagues, including Christos Doulkeridis – our teaching, our teachers and especially our teachers. This has not been the case because your desire for economy remains blind to any sense and logical reflection. In the absence of a back-up from the government on this matter, we have made another proposal, which I will reiterate here, minister. It is a condition for the entry into force of the new system of accounting for years of study under the pension upon the entry into force of another measure which is announced, i.e. the inclusion of more difficult duties in the calculation of career. However, the teaching function, in some circumstances even more than in others, can be described as painful. I am thinking in particular of the position of teacher and, more often, of teacher in kindergarten or of certain functions in technical or vocational education. One could therefore decide, as has been done for other legal frameworks adopted under this legislature – I am thinking of the diamond tax – to make the entry into force of this new mechanism conditional on an agreement and the establishment of a mechanism to take into account the difficult functions. We are resubmitting this amendment as well as the amendment on the proper information of the workers concerned. The lack of information leads to concern and therefore to dispute. This is a real problem of the pension policy that you are leading without a comprehensive vision and without clear communication, Mr. Minister of Pensions. I hope that these amendments will be supported. In conclusion, Mr Minister for Pensions, I would like to say that it is too easy to move forward on what is of interest to you in the report of the experts on pensions, leaving aside the most progressive, innovative and egalitarian dimensions of this report. I am thinking, and I have already mentioned, of the question of taking account of the tenability of certain functions, and therefore of the overvaluation of years worked in a difficult context. I am thinking of the possibility, subject to the content of your text – but we welcomed the idea with some intellectual interest – of taking part-time pensions. This can join a strong proposal that we have been defending for many years, the Tandem Plan, which is already applicable in the non-market sector of the French Community. This is the possibility for workers in specific sectors to lift their foot at the end of their careers and to be replaced by young workers, who thus leave unemployment and contribute to social security. Our Tandem plan could develop at the beginning of this idea of partial pension. I am also thinking, and above all, of the alternative financing of the pension system, with a stronger funding base to meet the commitments made in the past and for the future towards workers. Minister, I'll finish with that. My main complaint is that you are not fighting for sufficient budgets to meet pension commitments. You prefer to cut workers' current and future rights to the secator. Doing so, you will generate even more inequality, poverty among retired workers, which we cannot accept. That is why, unless our amendments are supported, we will not vote in favour of your text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u143	Mr President, Mr Minister, it always makes me laugh a little when I hear colleagues from the majority say, in a caricatural way, that it will be positive for everyone, that we correct an inconsistency, an injustice and that we harmonise. I am very much in favour of working and making progress on harmonisation. But there is harmonisation and harmonization. And the choice you made is clearly to achieve downward harmonisation. Have the honesty to say that this is a very clear step backwards for public servants' pensions. You have tried to say in committee that, in substance, there will be no hindrance because there will be compensation through taking account of penitibility. However, this issue of penitibility has not yet been completed. No one can therefore say how compensation will be made. We don't even know the main lines. But to say that this will be compensated by the penitence for all those concerned, it is of course all but true, since you know as well as I do, those who today enjoyed a system, those who tomorrow will be teachers will have to repay and buy back their years of study in order not to see a negative impact. There is a close link between the pension reform currently under discussion and the issues related to the penitibility of work and the revision of the preferences. It's all connected. It is a shame that even if these files are linked, they do not come at the same time because that is all, except clear for those concerned. I'll be back in a minute. It also seems important to me to recall how much there is a specific reality which is that of teaching. There are a number of reasons, including the predominance of women in certain positions, but also the successive declines in teachers' pensions. All this is not likely to increase the attractiveness of the trade. This is not only through the teaching part but is one of the elements in the balance. In my view, it is a major collective challenge to work attractiveness and, therefore, in the future of education. Mr Minister, I cannot help but say again here, even though I have already said in committee, that no one knows, nor do you, what the impact will be on the people concerned. Today, we know it's 1,500 euros. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, it's an actuarial calculation. It will no longer be 1,500 euros for the redemption of the years of study. Are we okay? Ten years is tomorrow, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u144	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u145	That is why you do not agree to understand! In the case of a kindergarten teacher who may be in charge of a family, a purchase of her years of study weighs much and more in the first years in which her income is less important. This weighs up to 1/12th of his annual income, Minister! She doesn't need a buy-back? Shouldn't a kindergarten teacher who starts tomorrow or the day after tomorrow have to buy back her years of study?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u146	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u147	She doesn't need a buyback! And why?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u148	Because she'll have enough years to have a full career.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u149	First, it will depend on the age at which she begins her career. Secondly, it will depend on the tantieths you announced and revised in 60. Thirdly, you know that with regard to mixed careers, for example, things will be even more complicated. Therefore, I do not agree with you at all when you say that there will be no problem, that everyone will win the same thing and that no change in pensions will take place, even for those who have not bought up their years of study. You have just said that a teacher should not buy back her years of study to have her pension level as it exists today! That's not true, minister, and you won't convince anyone about that. Even in the case of those with higher financial resources, you cannot guarantee that the impact will be positive because of the purchase of their years of study. In substance, today it is a real problem because the State has a duty of legibility and clarity to the citizens. And the least we can say is that you didn't respect him in any way. The confusion is great for all the citizens concerned. They're all future pensioners! This will not improve in the future, since according to actuarial calculations, those who want to buy back after the ten years, will be in the complete nebula to know whether or not, the impact will be positive on their pension level. As I asked and as you promised in committee, you should be able to guarantee that there will be a personal simulation for the people concerned to enable them to estimate the impact of the possible buy-back of years of study on their pension level. This must be available to every citizen who requests it, not only in the coming months but definitely, even for those who have mixed careers because, for them, more than for others, the calculation of the impact is even more complicated. Before I conclude, I would like to respond to Mr.Clarinval, who spoke of a "flibuste" in relation to the motion in conflict of interest that was introduced by the Francophones. If there was a meaningful concertation – not a frontal concertation – if the minister had not chosen the strategy of confrontation, but rather cooperation, respecting the levels of power, with responsible and constructive dialogue, that motion would not have been appropriate. Talking about flabbus is light and easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u150	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u151	When you say things, you have to take care of them, you have to have the courage to take care of them. Decisions that are likely to have a negative impact can be chosen. It's yours, but you have to bear the consequences. I'll finish by telling you this. "It will be positive for everyone"; that's what you say! Many of your colleagues in the majority have abstained from such statements. If I asked Ms Becq, she would have the honesty to say that this measure will not give everyone a higher pension level. Some will benefit from it. That's right. But others will either not have the opportunity to buy back their studies, or will buy them back, but they will not change their pension. People with bad surprises, people who will not have the ability to buy back the years, people for whom the calculations will not be favourable when they have bought their pension, because a career is long, and people with even more complicated mixed careers will not see a positive effect. To say the opposite is particularly indecent and dishonest. This case contains a great paradox. In fact, people are being asked to become more and more trained, to have higher and higher qualifications. Increasing qualification contributes to the economic development of our society. In spite of this, you have decided to encourage this training for some, but also to go in the opposite direction by discouraging the training for the officials concerned, who will suffer a retreat. It's a terrible paradox. In a way, you do not choose to move towards a more dynamic economy with a higher level of qualification. For some, it's very clear. This is a great paradox for a government that claims to be right-wing. Colleagues, we will not vote on this bill. In committee, I voted in favour of certain aspects of the bill, those relating to the self-employed and the employees. I will not ask, Mr President, for a vote on a chapter by chapter, but if we did so, we would again vote on the chapters concerning the self-employed and the employees. Conversely, we would not vote and would not support the public service components.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u152	Mr President, Minister, DéFI is not, as a matter of principle, opposed to harmonizing the consideration of periods of study for the calculation of the pension. Indeed, the systems that coexist at the moment are complex. Moreover, regulatory differences according to the statutes are no longer justified. However, in our view, this harmonisation must be developed in a balanced, transparent and concerted manner. This is not the case with the reform that we are voting on today, because it is mainly a measure of savings. The Planning Office estimated that it would raise €731 million around 2060. It is mainly the civil servants who pay for it, at a cost of €703 million. This reform is not transparent because it is in addition to other measures and lacks an overview of the final outcome. Moreover, it has not been the subject of a consensus, since the social partners have expressed a negative opinion. In particular, your reform affects teachers, especially women teachers, because women are victims of this new law. This is particularly deplorable. I will not repeat here the technical aspects which were raised during the debates in committee, following the adoption by the Brussels Regional Parliament of a motion in conflict of interest last May. I would simply like to recall the unacceptable consequence of this combination of reforms, namely that if teachers do not buy back their five years of study, they should work up to 68 years in order to be able to pursue a full career. This is not likely to make the profession more attractive and, therefore, to fill the shortage of teachers. Hence the concern of the organizing powers, especially in the Brussels Region, which is experiencing a demographic boom. You claim that these fears are unfounded, because the penitibility of this profession will be recognized. We cannot adhere to this approach of imposing reform without any consultation, simply promising corrective measures to mitigate collateral damage. You are talking to us about the recognition of difficult jobs since the beginning of the legislature, when you imposed the postponement of the legal retirement age. We know that this is a complicated matter and that the budget envelope will be closed and insufficient. Last year, when you presented your policy note, you said that the €16 million envelope set for the public sector would apply to the entire civil service, and therefore also to the army. You said that "the savings generated by the abolition of the preferential tantamounts will be almost equal, for the Treasury, to all the expenditure incurred by the Treasury for the heavy trades recognized in the new regulation for all schemes" - employees, civil servants and self-employed. We see no guarantee for teachers, on the contrary. The conflict-of-interest procedure initiated by the Assembly of the French Community Commission had the merit of forcing a consultation, which you did not consider necessary for the preparation of your project at the outset. It's not a procedure we're working for nothing. It was necessary to explain how the interests of the Brussels people are seriously affected by this bill. Unfortunately, this consultation has not been successful. However, compromise proposals have been put on the table in order to link the part of the draft law on the civil service to decisions on penitibility and preferential tantèmes, in vain. It is therefore impossible to determine today what the actual final impact of your project will be on public servants. What is clear is that, as it stands, it is negative and unguaranteed with regard to the arduous trades. However, we recognize that this bill is positive in the case of the self-employed and the employees. However, especially given the problem of teachers who will not find a positive response to their case, we will not be able to support your bill, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u153	Mr President, I am taking the floor instead of my colleague and friend Marco Van Hees, who is suffering today but who spoke brilliantly in committee during the debate. I am not going to repeat all of his excellent speech, but it will not surprise the minister to find no support for this measure from the PTB. Once again, in the name of harmonisation, the aim is clearly to harmonise downwards. That is the problem with Minister Bacquelaine, we always level down! The civil servants are going to lose. Why should civil servants lose when they are the only ones still in the European average? We cannot therefore be in favour of these purely economic measures. The aim is obviously not to harmonise but to save even more on people's pensions. Mr Minister, I am not going to use all the words of the exciting and passionate debate that we conducted yesterday in committee, but for these reasons the PTB will not support this new attack on public service pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u154	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that today we will finally have a final vote on this draft bill and that it can be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Colleagues, believe it or not, those who are less following the debate, the draft law has been on our mind since the discussion of the policy paper in 2016. The Minister first announced that it would enter into force in March, then in June and now, with the amendments we have just adopted in committee, it will be in December of this year. Mr Gilkinet said that this is yet another draft in a series of drafts on pensions. Absolutely. It proves that the reform train, which is in full swing, is making progress. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that pension reform is probably one of the most important reforms that the government is implementing. And there will be others. Next week we will be discussing the unity of career and the next week we will have the draft on mixed pensions. The most important part of the pension reform, the pension with points, I shall come back to this later on, before the end of the legislative term. Once again, hopefully the final vote will follow with the publication in the Belgian Official Journal. We have already had a first conflict of interest and I have not heard anyone here suggest that there is a new conflict of interest. In any case, I hope that we have not left for a mini-BHV, where we will have the debate here time and time again. It's been a long discussion. I think this is due to the fact that in the draft we opt for harmonisation between three different systems, the self-employed, employees and civil servants. This is not evident because the harmonisation of pension systems is probably one of the biggest taboos in our society. This is not only because there are very large differences between the pension systems of civil servants, employees and self-employed persons, but also because in the case of harmonisation, all parties are in favour of harmonisation, but only for harmonisation upwards. That means they want to give everyone more money. But of course, no one's gonna tell us who's gonna pay the bill. You have chosen a more difficult road, the way in which a balance has to be struck between the three different systems. Ladies and gentlemen, what I find very remarkable in the debate here is that Mr Vandenbroucke's Committee on Pension Reform and Consorts initially proposed simply abolishing the diploma certificate. The proposal was that the systems of civil servants, employees and self-employed persons should no longer allow diploma certificates. The reason was very simple: the diploma certificate was once introduced to encourage people to attend higher education and to receive compensation for it. So that proposal didn't make it. The government has chosen, if I may say so, Minister, for a mild path. Tasting of the central policy which the government is pursuing and for which the opposition is constantly attacking it. Contrary to the initial proposal to abolish the diploma qualification, the government has opted for a different path, namely harmonisation. But, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this in the Chair, and I do not think that harmonisation goes far enough. With the new system, an official will still be far better off than a self-employed person. I'll tell you why. That is, firstly, because an official can count on a transitional period of almost 40 years. A person who is still appointed an official this year will continue to include those years of study during a transitional period of 40 years for part of his career. Forty years we give the officials to settle with the new system as a rule. Secondly, an official can receive a diploma certificate from 18 years of age, employees and self-employed workers only from 20 years of age. The Minister stated in committee that he originally wanted to propose 18 years for employees and the self-employed, but it turned out to be 20 years after a discussion in the nuclear cabinet, no doubt because of the budgetary effects. As a result, Minister, a student who needs several years of graduation, who takes years or doubles, is favoured compared to a student who studies well from 18 years of age and graduates early. The third difference is that civil servants in the new system with fewer contributions will receive much more additional pension. By paying EUR 1 275, an official will be able to receive an additional pension on an annual basis ranging from EUR 800 to EUR 1 200. Employees and the self-employed will have to pay EUR 1 500 in the new system, i.e. 25% more than an official, for which they will receive an additional EUR 266 per year in exchange. These fundamental differences, as the Minister has said, relate to the fact that we calculate civil servants' pensions on the basis of the last ten years and not on the basis of the entire career. In my view, this shows that harmonisation is too modest. Minister, what I think is most important is that you do not motivate enough why we do not set the bar in full in the system. We will approve the text, just as I did in committee, even though I believe that the government could have gone further on that point. Minister, it is a first small step towards harmonisation. The most important step is, of course, the debate on pensions on the basis of points. You said yesterday in committee that united links, with the trade unions in the lead, are opposed to this new pension system on the basis of points. The truth, Minister, is that we are reading today in the study of the Planning Bureau, which states in black and white that the new pension system will benefit the most vulnerable in our society: the less educated, the women, the more difficult. In other words, what the government will introduce is precisely a system that will improve those people's retirement. The Planning Bureau calculated that this system would mean no less than 125 euros per month of additional pension for those people. In that sense, the resistance of the left is completely unjust. I think the truth should be told.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u155	This could be a generalisation when you talk about the position of the united Left and the trade unions. Actually, your pronunciation is worse than a generalization, she's wrong. Yesterday I had the pleasure of following the pension debate in committee and, unless I am mistaken, I did not immediately hear colleagues from the opposition who attacked the principle of retirement with points. In fact, now that I am speaking for my party, we are even in favour of it. Ecolo-Groen is for the pension with points, a system in which people's contributions are intelligently aligned with their pension benefits. The Planning Bureau provides interesting figures for this. What we do fight, Mr Van Quickenborne, is what you do and what the majority do. After all, what do people get per point? What do people get at the end of their careers? That is the criticism of the left, that is the criticism of Ecolo-Groen, that is also the criticism of Marc Leemans. It is not the principle of the pension with points, but the fact that the government creates uncertainty. After all, what does a point in pension building mean? You were not only generalising, but you are also taking the positions we take in the debate. The fact that the majority does indeed create uncertainty among pensioners is demonstrated by the fact that it is not transparent or clear in terms of pension points about what it means after x contribution time, after x points for pension building. That is our criticism of what is going on at the moment, but it does not concern the principle of pension with points, because that is a way of integrating reciprocity into the pension system that we are in favour of.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u156	Mr Calvo, I can hear you, your party's pension specialist, but I do think that Ecolo-Green is making a strange turn. Hardly a few months ago, Ecolo-Groen proposed the introduction of the basic pension system. Green wanted to apply for a basic pension for everyone. [[Objection]] Let me finish, because now it's a discussion between specialists. It was a basic pension for everyone. Even if they have not worked for a year, they are entitled to a basic pension. That is the Green proposal. That is a typical proposal, and I have also said it in committee, in which everyone on earth is promised a promise, but we do not know who will pay the invoice. Those are the rich, the wealthy, always the same stop answer, inspired by the PVDA and taken over by Green. We are now two months later and suddenly it is no longer about a basic pension, but about the pension on the basis of points. You will no doubt see that the reform train that the government has put on track is beginning to accelerate. In the end, the study of the Planning Bureau also proves that it is a good reform. I would like to say one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. If pension-based reform means that some will get more, and especially those who have a harder time in our society, then that also means that, in order to keep the system affordable, we will also have to talk about higher pensions, both in the private system, where we are already making an effort with the doubling of the Wyninckx contribution, and in the public sector system. It is no longer justifiable that in our country there are self-employed people with a pension of 900 euros, employees with a pension of 1 200 euros and civil servants with a pension of 2 300 or 2 500 euros per month. That is not acceptable. So if we want to set up a system on the basis of points, we will have to harmonise, not just upwards, and certain pensions will have to be adjusted. We will, because it is the only way to keep the system affordable. That will be the real debate, because the debate on diploma-bonification is only a small debate. The real debate will be about harmonizing the pension amounts of the different systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u157	Mr President, I am indeed less of a pension specialist than Mr Van Quickenborne. I'm not an ex-retirement minister. I always find the youthfulness with which Mr Van Quickenborne talks about pensions fascinating. Makes it look like he's never taken responsibility before. He has been in the government for 15 years now and talks about the past as if he had not been part of it in any way. I am less of a pension specialist, I have had less opportunity than you to be on those issues, and that obviously has consequences in terms of technical expertise. I confirm that, but I'm a specialist in my own party program. So I can perfectly explain to you why the basic pension and a pension can go hand in hand with points. The minimum base, the unconditional basic pension, is the first building block. An unconditional basic pension, perhaps one day even as a stepping stone to an unconditional basic income, on which real liberals, like those from your group, have already dared to write about. A society where a minimum income is not dependent on bad luck or happiness, but where it is said that everyone, regardless of their preliminaries, is entitled to an unconditional basic pension, the beginning of a solid first pillar. We are indeed opting for the first pillar and not for the further privatisation of pensions, as you advocate. The magical thing is that solidarity and reciprocity can go hand in hand. Please bear that in mind, Mr. Pension Specialist. This can go hand in hand, because as the second building block of our pension programme, we say that we are building up per year of work. A person who has worked for 30 years must, of course, get more than someone who has not worked, and someone who has worked for 45 years must certainly get more. So one builds on top. For this superstructure people work with a pension with points and say for certain heavy professions that it is not one year. Parliament says that this is worth a maximum of one point per year, but if one turns one's back in the construction sector, one is entitled to 1.2 or 1.1. Mr van Quickenborne, what you do not think can go hand in hand with solidarity and reciprocity does go hand in hand with our proposals. I confirm that I am less of a pension specialist than you, and you have a much greater responsibility there than we do. You have been on the buttons for a long time and know this dossier technically better than I do, but those two matters are not contradictory. That's not a turn. Those two things can go together perfectly. That is our pension programme with which we will continue to confront you until 2019 and which I am convinced is much greater support for in Flanders than for the retirement break you are advocating.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u158	When I was talking about pension specialists, I wanted to have this debate with your colleague Gilkinet. What's missing from your plan? You are talking about two building blocks, but there is a fundamental building block missing, in particular affordability. That's typical. You have launched your plan and promise people certain things. We then asked you to explain this in a budget table. You are the man who always asks here during the budget negotiations about the budgetary table with a statement of the figures. We have been asking Green for weeks to come up with a budget table. Show that your basic pension system, which you want to grant unconditionally to everyone, is affordable. Moreover, granting a basic pension to everyone is the difference with the system of guaranteeing old people's income, but with a means test. It's just not affordable, colleagues. There is one element in the debate that has made clear what your real purpose is. You actually want to get rid of the system of pension savings with a pension deduction. The result will be that 2.5 million hard-working Belgians, who are now saving their pensions in the second pillar, will no longer be able to benefit from this tax reduction. This means that 2.5 million people per year will pay 300 euros more taxes. It's in your program, and that's the invoice you're presenting to those people. We do not want that! We want a system that is affordable, rewards work and solidarity. The Planning Bureau proves that these three elements are present in the new pension system with points. I repeat, Minister, however, that harmonization is essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u159	Mr President, I have heard a lot of things at the end of the afternoon and, often, a point of view and its opposite. Mr Daerden, who started this debate, has come back to the increase in retirement age and the first rule we have adopted, which is to gradually increase from 65 to 67 years of age. Every time, you question that! I'm still watching an evolution. I read that Mr Jean-Pascal Labille, a former minister, considered that returning to age 65 would be stupid. It's a great development!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u160	He said 60.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u161	No. He says we need a beach that goes from 60 to X. That is always what we have defended, and that is what we have just done by raising the early retirement age. I remind you that, for long quarries, we start at 60, with a beach between 60 and 67 years old. In fact, it is the principle of point pensions, which we are launching, by giving people more freedom to choose the age at which they leave the labour market, taking into account, of course, the link between work done and the pension and taking into account the life expectancy remaining after the pension age. This is the principle of point pension. I note that Mr. Labelle is saying that returning to the legal age of 65 for the pension would be stupid. I was happy to read this, because I think everything is not lost. At some point, we become reasonable again if we analyze the pension system. We are obliged to take into account life expectancy and its evolution. Failure to do so would be of the utmost irresponsibility. We want to move towards greater harmonisation, because it is necessary if we are to achieve the point pension. We want to take more account of the work done, thus strengthening the link between work and pension. It's one of the basics of the point pension. We want to strengthen the lowest pensions. We did it with the minimum pension. There has never been as much increase in minimum pensions in three years as in the last three years: 89 additional monthly euros for employees, 151 additional monthly euros for the self-employed. This is much more than what was done during the three years of the Di Rupo government. We want to strengthen the lowest pensions. All these elements reflect the government's vision for pensions. All the reforms that we are taking today, those that go towards harmonisation, the strengthening of minimum pensions, the abolition of the limitation to the career unit, all are compatible with the point pension. All of them! They're preparing the point pension. Without these reforms, it would be impossible to move to a point pension. I wanted to put things back on track. Some would like to directly implement the point pension. I heard you, Mr. Calvo. But I would point out that I am also told that we need social consultation. I would like to know exactly what is needed. Should there be an express social dialogue within two hours? Or is there a real opportunity for social dialogue to express itself? This is the case today in the National Pensions Committee which was set up for this purpose. It enables the social partners and the government to work as part of the consensus-building process. I'm not saying we're gonna make it. Far from it. But the government will not be able to take refuge behind the lack of social consensus. At some point, the policy has to take on its responsibilities. I think we agree on that. Otherwise, it doesn't make much sense to work on system improvement. I conclude this introductory chapter by saying that pension reform is essential. It is certain that a system cannot be fundamentally reformed without changing a number of things. I've always taken responsibility for that. I have always said that it is impossible to reform the pension system if the activity is not extended. If we do not extend the activity, we cannot reform this system. What characterizes Belgium today is that the employment rate for the 60-64 age group is 29%. This is much lower than other countries where people leave the labour market much later. It is 47% of the OECD average. That's the truth. On average, 47% of people between the ages of 60 and 64 work in Europe and developed countries, compared with 29% of Belgians today. These parameters are impossible to maintain. So we need to work longer. I'm told, "Since you're saving money, in this case 730 million euros - by 2060, let's hear it well - you're withdrawing people's pensions." No, of course not! Where does the pension economy come from? It does not come from a reduction in individual pension amounts of course! Moreover, I would remind you that we have just increased minimum pensions for 900 million in three years. She didn't come from there. It comes from the fact that when someone does not take their pension and continues to work, they save 100% on their pension. That's the truth! If someone does not take their pension and continues to work, during the year they continue to work, we save 100% of their pension. That's where the economy is! It is not by reducing the amount of pensions of course! Moreover, if the incomes of 2,400,000 people were to be reduced, we could say goodbye to any recovery and growth. It would be an economic ineptitude. That doesn't make any sense. We know we don't have to do this and we don't do that. What is being done is to ensure that all the reforms that are being undertaken tend to increase the period of activity, not disproportionately, not up to 68 years, as some have said, like Mrs Caprasse on teachers. I challenge her to set an example that leads to this in the reforms that we are making. It's impossible! I've turned the system in every direction, it's impossible! Impossible! It is therefore obviously not a question of this. It is true, however, that teachers, as well as other civil servants or other self-employed or other employees, will actually be asked to work for two more years, for example. That's a little the average we're looking for right now. This seems to me all the more legitimate because, for teachers, there is also a period of prior leave. Is it completely abnormal to stay in business until 60 or 62 years of age? This question must still be asked at some point in a society based on solidarity. I still wanted to reprosecrate those elements that I think are important. With regard to today's reform and harmonisation, I understand Mr. Van Quickenborne. For him, we don't go fast enough for the civil servants. We should go a lot faster. I can hear you well, but we've just got a free one. On the starting line of the reform, the self-employed, the employees and the civil servants are not equal because some have a free allowance, others could buy over the first ten years, which they generally did not do because during the first ten years of his life, at the beginning of his professional career, one does not think too much about his pension. The self-employed, on the other hand, were able to buy over the entire career. We want to harmonize and we will do so gradually. There is no need for brutality in pension reform, it would be counterproductive. It is true that the system for public servants to buy back years of study will be less favourable tomorrow than it is today. I assume it because we have to move towards some equality. I thought that the principle of equality was a principle to which most parties who profess progressive ideas were attached. I believe that removing a number of privileges and moving towards greater equality is part of an acceptable program. It is true that there will be a very long transition period for public servants as we will retain the acquired rights for the career that is already achieved. For most of them, the full real effects of the reform will be felt in 2053. We have calculated this for people who have completed five-year studies. For them, in 2053, there will be no advantage at all over periods of acquired rights. I have given examples in committee, I will not repeat them here. They are available to the members of the commission and have been clarified, including for teachers. For the latter, the Federal Office of the Plan is very clear: it says that for most teachers, the reform of the increase in years of study and of the purchase of years of study has no consequence. For most teachers, 41.3 years of activity allow for a full career. It is therefore not necessary to buy back years of study, certainly not all years of study. This will be a year if they started a little later or two years if they started even later. I would remind you that the transitional period allows everyone to be put back on an equal footing. Employees who did not take advantage of the first ten-year period to buy back their years of study are still able to do so during a transitional period, to put everyone back on the same line and to ensure that there are no more advantaged categories. That is the pattern of this reform which, in my view, is indispensable if we are to move towards a point-based pension, because it requires harmonisation. Today we are at the stage of discussing a guidance note which I have tabled to the National Pension Committee and which is the subject of work by all the partners present there. I have asked a number of questions which are chapter heads and which will have to be answered. After a moment of work and reflection in this Committee, we will move on to the drafting stage before the end of the year, so that they can be tabled quickly. Some stressed that the concept of study was penalized. No! It's the other way around! Mrs Temmerman, if the bonus had been completely abolished, then it is true that those who have studied would have been penalized because they begin later in life. The government wants to allow workers, who, through the study they have followed, contribute to the economic development of our society, to valorize their years of study in the pension calculation. It is important to encourage young people to start their studies and to bring them to a successful conclusion, without fearing a negative effect on their pensions. This is also an objective of the government. In this respect, the choice has been made. It existed. We could have deleted everything. We have decided not to do so and to maintain an appreciation of the studies. I believe that today we are moving towards a fairer system, involving the whole population, which will allow for greater harmonisation and thus greater equality of treatment, fairness and justice. This prefigures the values that will underlie the start-up of the point pension. That is the purpose of this reform. I invite you, of course, to participate. It is true that we talked about university studies and the kind of privilege that exists for graduate studies. No. The debate in committee made it possible, and Mrs Becq referred to it, to include in particular the seventh year of vocational education and apprenticeship contracts. I think it was important to work in this direction so that as many people as possible who wish to improve their training could also be involved in this reform. This is an important reform of this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u162	Mr President, an important part of this project, which in its entirety reflects the desire to harmonise the pension system with regard to the purchase of years of study, concerns the self-employed. I think everyone will recognize that the system, as it exists today, is particularly unfair to the self-employed in terms of buying back years of study. This has been recognised by Mrs Caprasse here and by Mrs Fonck in committee. It is therefore necessary to identify a number of elements of this project which will put an end to an injustice for the self-employed. In particular, this project makes the system more flexible for the self-employed. It is clear that the self-employed person is now confronted with a situation of "all or nothing". He can or can't buy back. He cannot buy back one or two years of study. He has only one possibility of application that he must meet one month after having formulated it and therefore pay for all years of study. The system is so heavy financially that in 2015 and 2016 a third of the self-employed had to give up buying back the years of study for which they had applied. This project is helping to restore social justice. In terms of harmonisation, my colleague Bacquelaine has obviously spoken of the desire to achieve equality between schemes. But as far as the self-employed are concerned, the differences between them – whether in terms of years of study to be bought before 1975 or years of study between 1975 and 1984, or between 1984 and 1996, and then in the period following 1997 – in terms of contributions related to buy-back or return are such that the system proposed today guarantees fairness, justice. Access conditions are also easier. Important elements such as the apprenticeship contract are taken into account. As Ms Fonck pointed out in committee, the apprenticeship contract is often a ramp of access to the labour market for the self-employed. It is also ensured that internships related to graduation no longer discriminate, for example, between general practitioners and specialists. This also affects self-employed people who may be entering the labour market more quickly. It is no longer on the twentieth anniversary, but after the sixth high school that the redemption of the years of study can take place. I'll give you a number of petal-mêle elements. I will reply in two points to Mr Daerden on the subject of independent women. You know very well that this reform is not at issue in relation to this question. Rather, it is the fact that the social status of the assisting spouse came into effect in 2003 and that it is completely inoperative, in the context of short careers, to buy back years of study while the "household" rate is obviously more interesting. The issue is therefore not related to gender, but to the social status of the assisting spouse who arrived in 2003 alone. We believe that things should be regularized over time. We note that almost 89 per cent of assisting spouses are women. We also find that the self-employed in their principal capacity buy their years of study to a greater extent. Mrs Becq rightly points out that good information is necessary. I will ensure that the RSVZ and the social insurance funds will provide comprehensive information on this. There's a circular in preparation that includes this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u163	We come to the replicas. Mr Daerden has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u164	Mr President, these few reactions from the ministers call for some reply. First, Minister Bacquelaine wanted to address the 67-year-old issue again. In every debate on pensions, we can talk about everything again, but if I mentioned it in my speech, it is in terms of false announcement. Undoubtedly, that was one! This has not been announced, but on the contrary. During the campaign, it was stated that the pension age would not be affected, but that promise was not fulfilled. It is in this sense that I have referred to it. I wanted to denounce again an announcement that, at the time, was false. Having said that, as you have spoken of it and as you refer to the intervention in the press and on the radio of my friend Jean-Pascal Labille, I am delighted. Yes, because I find his idea interesting. It goes even further than what was announced as a fundamental step for us, namely to return from 67 to 65 years of age. He says that you have to go to 60 with 42 years of career and have flexibility to start. It's very different from the system you put in place with long careers. It is true that you want us to be able to leave at 60 but with 44 years of career. You must have started at the age of 16 and have worked continuously. It's very different from his theory. He does not say that returning to 65 is a bad idea; he says that is not enough. I agree with him: we must go further! In your response introduction, you also indicate that it would be irresponsible not to implement your reforms. But we talked about it again yesterday. For me, it's irresponsible to scare people. Now that's what you're doing! You scare people by saying that without your reforms, it would become unpayable and they would no longer have a pension. That is what is irresponsible. It's on the MR website that's taking your sentence, I told you yesterday. I wanted to remind you of this, since you yourself have addressed this topic. Moreover, the famous point pension creates a whole debate. I think this is not today's debate, but I would still like to clarify our position. In our view, point pension is a calculation method with a multitude of parameters that we fear. Indeed, this also means a multitude of means which will be used to reach the pension and the value of the point, making the pension a variable of budgetary and economic adjustment. That's what we're afraid of. So I express this fear. Since no guarantee is offered to us, we reject such a random approach, which could affect the standard of living of future retirees. That is our position at this stage, and we stand firm in it. You always talk about extending the activity. We are in favour of this, in any case for those who can, without obligation but by developing incentives. When I see that you are removing the pension bonus and encouraging those who started working very early to retire - I refer to the career unit we discussed yesterday - I consider that you are advocating measures that are contrary to those that need to be taken. You claim that the savings are the result of the postponement. That's partly correct. I will not say that this has no mathematical or budgetary meaning. However, it is not the panacea. We are witnessing a reduction in certain pensions of tomorrow. Whether it is a public servant's pension or an unemployed person's pension, its amount will undoubtedly be reduced by the reforms undertaken. In other words, savings will be the cumulative effect of the two measures, which will involve several hundred million euros and will be on the backs of pensioners. Maybe we can get back to the heart of tonight's debate. You are almost apologizing for the progressive effects to the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, saying that if we had been in your place, the consequences would have been more brutal. Although its progressive nature is real, the measure remains negative. Indeed, your device will be executed at the expense of future retirees. For you, there will be no consequence. We will repeat the calculations once we have become aware of the reform of the tantèmes, with your closed envelope which will undoubtedly penalise those who benefit from tantèmes - therefore, not only teachers. We will repeat the calculations and you will see that many teachers will be involved in your reform. You say they may only have to buy back a year or two. But two years is 3,000 euros, and for some it's a lot! Our group welcomes the progress made for the independents. You put a few of them forward, which you summed up with the term "flexibility". Indeed, there are advances. But, as your predecessor said, Mr.Ducarme, some independents will have to pay more tomorrow to buy back years of study than in the current regime. For them, it is also a levelling down, which we denounce. We all agree here, even the ministers, that years of study must be valued. These are years that have been devoted to training and to being able to access certain posts and contribute to the development of our country. But if we all agree, let's put them directly in the value of pensions and make it a nice measure of valorisation and levelling up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u165	Mr Minister, you have given an important sentence, which I invite you to remember, and above all to apply: brutality is counterproductive. Your reforms are brutal, no matter what you say, whatever you plead. They are brutal, in this case, towards women, towards the school. You are systematically quoting this study from the Office of Planning, which shows that, in your opinion, many teachers do not need to buy back years of study. But who needs to buy back years of study? It is teachers who have less careers, i.e. women, for family reasons, reasons of maternity. These are the women you touch here, as well as the school, full whip. I'm really worried about your schedule. Mr. Van Quickenborne was very explicit about this: your aim is to promote private pension organisations, as if they cost public finances nothing through deductibility, as if they were safe, as if they were fair. That's not the case. The best way to provide life security after a career is the first pillar pension. You are responsible for the first pillar pension! Your reforms are, in this respect, unbalanced. There are no longer enough opportunities to adapt his career to his ability, to the need to lift his foot at some point. As far as penitibility is concerned, you will consult, but as with all the other reforms, you want to move in a brutal way. But you're not moving forward. Mainly in terms of alternative financing and envelope available for tomorrow, you do not fight. Indeed, the point pension system can provide a better readability, membership and understanding of our first pillar pension system. Why not? But as long as the value of the point is guaranteed, which is far from the case. The texts you have submitted to us in the form of a general note – since they are not yet in the legal stage – provide for the possibility of adjusting the amount per point according to the economic circumstances and the available budgets. This is obviously unacceptable because it is programming the de-financing of our pension system and it is programming more pensioners and poor pensioners tomorrow. We can't accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u166	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u167	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2378/12) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2378/12) The draft law has 37 articles. The bill has 37 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u168	Chapter 2/1 (n) • 45 – Georges Gilkinet (2378/13)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u169	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u170	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u171	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law establishing the Data Protection Authority, No. 2648/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law establishing the Data Protection Authority, No. 2648/1, was tabled. As usual, we will stand by and stand up. Just as common is that the government motivates the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u172	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency for the creation of the new Data Protection Authority, which comes under the relevant Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, which will enter into force on 25 May 2018. The General Data Regulation is directly applicable and therefore does not require any measures to transpose it into national law, but it does require each Member State to establish one or more new data protection authorities. Ik lees even voor uit artikel 51 which provides that "each Member State shall ensure that one or more independent public authorities are responsible for monitoring the application of this Regulation". That law establishes the Data Protection Authority in accordance with the European Regulation. It is important that we respect the European deadline. For those Member States which fail to do so, financial penalties may be applied. It is also important that we allocate sufficient time so that the appointment procedure of the new Directors and the Chair of the Data Protection Authority can be completed by 25 May 2018, because at that time the Data Protections must have all the functionality. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u173	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u174	The Government also requested urgent treatment pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the law on the exercise of health professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015, No. 2652/1. The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending the Act on the Exercise of Health Care Professions was tabled, coordinated on 10 May 2015, No. 2652/1. Before I give my opinion, I invite the government to give reasons for its request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the urgency of this draft law is justified by the fact that the relevant provisions must enter into force at the time when the draft Royal Decree on the quotas for doctors of 2024 and 2025 and also the quotas for dentists are submitted to the Council of Ministers, in particular in spring 2018. This condition is part of the overall agreement reached by the government on this issue in spring 2017. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u176	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u177	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 September 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the proposal for a resolution (Mr Dirk Van der Maelen cs) on Belgium's accession to the international nuclear weapons ban treaty, No. 2672/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u178	- the legislative proposal (Mr Laurent Devin, Mrs Fabienne Winckel and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Christian Brotcorne and Benoît Friart) amending Article 87 of the Rules of Procedure in order to adapt the structure of the canton of the Hainaut constituency, No. 2673/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u179	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 September 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Dirk Van der Maelen et al.) on the accession of Belgium to the International Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, No 2672/1
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u180	- the proposal for a law (Mr Laurent Devin, Ms Fabienne Winckel and Messrs. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Christian Brotcorne and Benoît Friart) amending article 87 of the Electoral Code with a view to adapting the cantonal structure of the electoral district of Hainaut, n° 2673/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u181	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u182	Mr President, since the amendment of the cantonal structure must be able to be adapted by 14 October, a year before the provincial elections, I request the urgency, as I was able to express yesterday in the Committee on the Interior before the President and the members of the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u183	Mr President, I just wanted to speak on this text because, in addition to the fact that the three traditional parties agreed without consulting us – the presidents were not agreed on this – I wanted to mention the situation in relation to the response that the Minister of the Interior had given me in June on this text. He stated that this text would be the subject of a project within the government, a joint project with amendments requested by the Flemish Region. This is the Minister's answer to question No. 19301. Unless I am mistaken, I have not yet seen any text from the north of the country. I am therefore asking myself and I am asking the government about the commitments made at the time and saying that the amendment of the Electoral Code of the Walloon and Flemish Regions would be made at the same time in the framework of a preliminary bill which the administration of the Minister of the Interior was preparing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u184	Mr Nollet, we are discussing Mr Devin's urgent request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u185	Yes, it is in the context of the debate on urgency that I speak to say that there is an urgent need if the two texts are there. Since there is only one text, there is no urgency depending on what the Minister of the Interior said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u186	The text is there and the urgency is requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u187	Mr. Chairman, let us simply ask the government one more question. Is it consistent with this statement? In addition, in order to save time, I ask you to send this text to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u188	I take note of your statements. I don't think it's on the agenda. Today, the government is calling for urgency. Final point! I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u189	Mr President, what about the request I made to refer this text to the Council of State? You have the opportunity. I therefore ask you to do so because this text is fundamental. These are electoral districts. I believe that we need the advice of the Council of State. Let's save time and send the text already. In any case, the text cannot be worked on in committee until the Walloon Region has adopted it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u190	Are you making a formal request for a vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u191	Mr President, I know that it is within your power to intervene. It is in this capacity that I request this dismissal. It is still a question of the organisation of elections, a fundamental democratic question! I assume that you are attentive to this and that, pending the vote of the Walloon Parliament, you can activate this request yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u192	Mr. Nollet, not at the moment. I'll determine my position later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u193	Don't hang out!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u194	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 13 September 2017. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 13 September 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 227/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Koen Metsu. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 227/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every year, the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital reports on violations of language legislation by the administrations of Brussels. You will not be surprised that these local Brussels authorities are violating language legislation on a massive scale. Unfortunately, the figures are getting worse every year. Not even a third of the appointments or promotions of the Brussels municipalities are carried out in accordance with the language law. It's even more dramatic with the OCMWFs. There's only 11 percent of the files in order. I won't bother you with all the other numbers. As every year, I have put it before the Minister responsible for language legislation, because Brussels language legislation is one of the federal authorities, but it does not intend to do anything about it. That was pretty obvious. Even the minimum mini-morum, which is still on the agenda of the Conciliation Committee, is not included, which is why I recommend that the Minister make it clear that he does have the perfect opportunity to eliminate these supervisory bodies in Brussels and to take over it or, for example, to allow it entirely to the vice-governor. I advocate this every year, but this year the Minister can no longer say that this is not legally possible. In the meantime, we have received an opinion from the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring in which all this is confirmed. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for your support to give the Minister a boost in order to remedy this. He needs this support urgently. However, the application of existing legislation, such as language legislation, cannot be covered by the Community's standstill. I cannot imagine that was the intention. That is why I am counting on your support for my motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u196	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 79 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 127 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u197	Mr President, I agreed to join Mr Dewael, who was prevented from voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u198	Thank you, Mr. Maingain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u199	Mr President, I have a vote with Mr Beke for tonight's votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u200	Dank u, mevrouw Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u201	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Barbara Only to omit Articles 4 to 6.(2541/6) Vote on amendment No. 1 by Barbara Not tending to delete articles 4 to 6.(2541/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 124 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 4 to 6 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 4 to 6 were adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u202	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[74]] Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2541/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2541/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mr Laaouej voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u203	Vote on Amendment No 62 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 6.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 62 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 6.(2378/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[10]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 61 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 10.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 61 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 10.(2378/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u204	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 64 by Catherine Fonck on article 10.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 64 by Catherine Fonck to Article 10.(2378/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[8]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 46 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 60 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 12.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 60 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 12.(2378/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[10]] Yes No. 72 No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Schepmans and Mr Klaps voted against. Vote on Amendment No 59 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 15.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 59 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 15.(2378/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u205	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 15 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 58 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 16.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 58 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 16.(2378/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u206	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 57 by Georges Gilkinet on article 17.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 57 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 17.(2378/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u207	The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 56 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 18.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 56 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 18.(2378/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[17]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 37 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment has therefore been rejected and Article 18 has been adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 55 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 19.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 55 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 19.(2378/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[10]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 54 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 20.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 54 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 20.(2378/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[17]] Yes No. 73 No Abstentions 37 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 53 by Georges Gilkinet on article 22.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 22.(2378/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u208	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 65 by Catherine Fonck on article 22.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 65 by Catherine Fonck to Article 22.(2378/13) Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[18]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 22 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 45 by Georges Gilkinet to insert a chapter 2/1(n).(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Georges Gilkinet to insert a Chapter 2/1(n).(2378/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[17]] Yes No. 72 No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 125 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for Absention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez abstained. Mr Eric Van Rompuy voted against. Mrs Veerle Heeren voted against. Vote on Amendment No 46 by Georges Gilkinet introducing an article 22/1(n).(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Georges Gilkinet to insert an Article 22/1(n).(2378/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u209	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 63 by Georges Gilkinet introducing an Article 22/2(n).(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 63 by Georges Gilkinet to insert an Article 22/2(n).(2378/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u210	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 52 by Georges Gilkinet on article 24.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 52 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 24.(2378/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u211	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 66 by Catherine Fonck on article 24.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 66 by Catherine Fonck to Article 24.(2378/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[8]] Yes No. 73 No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Reason for Absention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Mr. Laurent Devin abstained. Vote on Amendment No 51 by Georges Gilkinet on article 27.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 51 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 27.(2378/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[11]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 43 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 50 from Georges Gilkinet on article 28.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 50 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 28.(2378/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u212	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 49 by Georges Gilkinet on article 34.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 49 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 34.(2378/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u213	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 34 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 34 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 48 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 35.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 48 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 35.(2378/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u214	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 35 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 35 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 47 by Georges Gilkinet on article 36.(2378/13) Vote on Amendment No 47 by Georges Gilkinet to Rule 36.(2378/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u215	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 36 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 36 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u216	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[74]] Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2378/14) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2378/14) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u217	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 15) Yes 73 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 965/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 965/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mr Jean-Marc Delizée and Ms Laurette Onkelinx voted against. Mrs Maya Detiège has voted like her group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-21-54-plenair-ip184x.u218	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 28 September 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 28 September 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 September 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 28 September 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
