ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u1	Madam President, Minister, on 21 December in Rotterdam you signed an agreement with your Dutch and Luxembourg counterparts to organise joint surveillance of Benelux airspace. In concrete terms, fighter aircraft stationed in Belgium and the Netherlands will take over the territory of the three countries to intercept aircraft that threaten our security. Notwithstanding the merits of this cooperation agreement, which underscores the government's commitment to take all initiatives to protect the population, particularly in the terrorist context we know, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you give us the outline of the agreement you signed? What are the concrete implications for our country and its air force? How many devices are mobilized to carry out this project? What is the budget allocated for this joint monitoring? Finally, what is the expected date for the launch of the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u2	Madam President, Mr Calomne, the Technical Arrangement of the Benelux Treaty on the Integration of Aviation Safety against a Renegade-type Civil Threat, signed on 21 December 2016, describes the modalities for the implementation of the Treaty signed at The Hague on 4 March 2015. The latter constitutes the legal basis for the integration of means in order to respond effectively to a terrorist threat. In the case of a Renegade-type threat, the NATO chain of command is no longer competent and the authority returns to the national level, i.e. the national government authority (NGA). The Technical Arrangement describes in detail the chain of command, the communication channels, the training and frequency of exercises, and the planning of the rotation of fighter aircraft. In concrete terms, from 1 January this year Belgium and the Netherlands will, in turn, implement two fighter jets to ensure aviation safety in the airspace of the three countries. The result is a more efficient use of the air component assets already in place for NATO Air Policy. The financing of joint surveillance of Benelux airspace is covered by the defence budget and does not require any additional appropriations. In other words, it's more efficient, so it costs less.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for this complete answer, since it covers all the questions I asked. I can only encourage this type of initiative, which aims to increase efficiency, also reduces costs and works with our Benelux partners. I think it's an interesting cooperation. I can only encourage you in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u4	Minister, the Alpha Jet fighter pilot training contract, concluded with our French partners, is expected to come to an end in 2019. However, the Defence Air component will not wait until this deadline to prepare for the future and thus determine the training framework for its personnel. In this regard, it would appear that the mentioned bireactor will not be replaced within the flying equipment and that a training outsourcing programme is preferred for the training of future pilots. It would appear that this scenario is currently under consideration and could eventually lead to the launch of a formal tender. Can you remind us of the training framework that is currently being implemented with our partners in the French Air Force? How many pilots have been supported so far? Can you confirm the information published for the period after 2019? If so, what exactly are the tracks on the table and, therefore, which ones do you prefer? What are the expected benefits of subcontracting, in particular in terms of the qualitative strengthening of pilot expertise and the optimisation of state budgets? With regard to the fate of the Alpha Jets, what are the ways in which they can compensate for their withdrawal from active service?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u5	Minister, since 2004 Belgium and France have jointly trained their military pilots in Cazaux, in the southwest of France. According to Major General Vansina, the French-Belgian collaboration in the Advanced Jet Training School will end at the end of 2018. This also puts an end to the use of the obsolete Alpha-Jet 1B training equipment. From 2019, our pilots will be trained in a training centre in Sheppard, in the north of Texas, according to the general. In this context, I have a few questions. Is this a first or were our pilots trained in the past in the United States? Are there other countries besides Belgium that use this training centre and, if so, which ones? What are the main benefits of such multinational training? How many pilots would it be on average a year and how long does such training take? What are the main reasons why cooperation in France will cease from 2019? Are there any ideas for organising such training courses in the future with France and/or other European partners in Europe? How long should such training be planned abroad? Are the costs of training well known and foreseen in future budgetary planning? How many personnel will be stationed in the US, outside the pilots in training?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u6	As a result of the basic training on school-based aircraft Marchetti in Beauvechain, Belgium, the student pilots evolve according to their skills and the needs of the Defence towards one of the three possible training routes in France today. First, on Colibri in Dax for helicopter pilots, on Xingu in Avord for transport pilots and on Alpha Jet in Cazaux for fighter pilots, where between 8 and 10 Belgian pilots have been trained per year since 2005. This last training course will effectively stop when the Belgian fleet of Alpha Jets reaches the end of its operational potential in 2019. Cooperation in Dax and Avord will be maintained. It is obvious that the choice of the successor of the Belgian F-16 will be decisive for the future training course of fighter pilot of the air component. As no decision has yet been made on the F-16 replacement file, it has been necessary to select a temporary solution that best meets the needs of the air component. Defence has opted for the Euro-NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training (ENJJPT) programme in the United States, as have other European nations, such as the Netherlands, Denmark, Norway, Spain, Italy and Germany. This is the most cost-effective option, currently available and meeting Belgian needs. The ENJJPT was established in 1981 and has currently 13 participating countries, namely Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, Great Britain and the United States. Since the start of the training programme, Belgium has regularly sent a limited number of instructors and candidate fighter pilots to ENJJPT. Since Belgium had its own training, formerly national and since 2004 in a partenariat with France, this was mainly about maintaining and communicating with NATO standards. The training on site takes about 18 months. In the long run, six pilots will have to be trained every year. In addition to the pilots in training, the same number of instructors is stationed in the United States. The cost of this training has already been included in budgetary planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u8	Minister, you say that it is a temporary solution that best meets the needs of our pilots, and then, of course, it is a very logical solution. We already have experience with the cooperation, because you say that the contract is already some 30 years old, so that cooperation will work well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u9	Minister, two years ago I asked you a few questions about the expansion of the Cybersecurity Operations Center. You then replied that the capacity at the time would be increased by about 25 functions for informants. In addition, you reported that the infrastructure for the development of such COC, which had already started in 2014, would be completed by mid-2015. A similar interest in cyber security in itself, but for the COC in particular, we read in your strategic vision. If you will allow me, I would like to quote: "Today, a COC is already being developed within our Defense Department, which is responsible for the cyber defense of our armed forces' communication and information systems. This strategic vision provides additional resources and staff for this cyber capacity in the short term. Currently, there is no offensive cyber capacity. The strategic vision sets out the necessary investment budgets and additional staff to enable a rapid build-up of this cyber capacity. Offensive cyber in support of expeditionary operations will mainly be based on reach back capacity that will physically be in our country. It will be examined whether the construction of our military cyber capacity can be further strengthened by using specialised reserves. You also questioned a number of fellow Members during your term of office. There is, among other things, a written question from colleague Vincent Scourneau. You then replied with an update on the recruitment process led by Selor, which would take place in four stages. Candidates for successful selection could be recruited by October 2015 at the earliest. My question is about operationality and is clear and simple. Can I get an update?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u10	Madam President, Mr Buysrogge, the implementation of the strategic plan is indeed leading to a strengthening of military cyber capacity. The objective is twofold: first and foremost, a better understanding of and protection against the dangers of the medium, but also a better understanding of the opportunities. Defence itself will also have to be able to generate or integrate cyber impacts into the support and execution of its own military operations. The priorities in the development of expertise are, of course, the defensive cyber capacity. As you say, the investments are foreseen. The most important thing in this project is the staff in building military cyber capacity. Indeed, the rapid technological developments in the cyber domain pose specific challenges for which a very high level of expertise is needed. The recruitment campaign for 2015 resulted in the recruitment of 13 cyberexperts. A lot of people had applied, but the trial is strict. Defense is looking for individuals who can immediately be used for basic services and who can subsequently become junior and ultimately senior cyberexperts through training. In addition, it is important to note that in this niche, Defence must be placed on the labour market alongside competitors in the private sector and also in competition with many headquarters of international organisations that, as you will not be unaware, have different remuneration systems than those that are common within the federal government. When we talk about cyber experts, we are actually talking again about the framework of the statutory civil servant, which is not obvious. At the entrance level, we recruit the people we're looking for and who have the capabilities, to the initial wage of joining the federal government, and that's hard. In 2016, Defense has also recruited cyber specialists to recruit citizens and in the coming years, Defense will continue to invest and recruit in this domain. The need for more cyber-reservists you mentioned has meanwhile been integrated into a special working group on the reserve of the future. So we're working on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u11	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The procedure that ran in 2015 was successful and resulted in 13 new recruitments, but not the full quota as envisaged. I understand you made another attempt last year. I suspect that it is still ongoing and that we will soon receive new information on this matter. These are, of course, difficult profiles. That's obvious. The fact that we are faced with a number of handicaps is understandable. I think it would be interesting to consider the extent to which no sleeve can be fitted. You are also the Minister of Civil Service, so it makes sense to list a number of opportunities so that we can also be competitive in our personnel policy, specifically with regard to a number of bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u12	We're not sitting still. The fact is that we have a disability in terms of remuneration. We're trying to fit a sleeve there. As Minister of Civil Service, I can also allow derogations from diploma conditions for other colleagues for specific bottleneck professions, such as cyber specialist. This means that we can recruit people with a lower degree, but who do testify to the necessary knowledge in that particular category. This is an option that we take and which, especially for informants, is not systematically answered by the whole government because we know the problems. In addition, as part of a more dynamic personnel policy, I have also asked Defence to look internally at the extent to which we could redirect people specifically to cyber activities. Of course, that requires more training, but on the other hand, we are getting people with a military attitude. That's an investigation that's ongoing, but it's not that simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u13	Minister, I accept that, but I think it would be useful for the Minister of Defence to consult with the Minister of Civil Service to see to what extent this could be appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u14	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u15	Question No 16242 by Mrs Annick Lambrecht and question No 16255 by Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez are transformed into written questions. Question No 16572 by Mr Sebastian Pirlot and question No 16861 by Mrs Véronique Caprasse were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u16	Minister, when Defence personnel are confronted with a contentious case, they can deal with two types of proceedings: the formal complaint or the informal complaint. The first is legal and can lead to convictions, while the second involves only a report to the ministry and possible recommendations. In this regard, among the various grounds for complaint, there are cases of violence and moral and sexual harassment, which it appears are still the victims of many female military personnel. In 2015, 267 complaints were registered of inappropriate harassment, violence or sexual behaviour within the Defence. However, of these 267 complaints, only eight concerned formal proceedings. The choice of this procedure would be explained by a fear of reprisals on the part of the complainant. By not favouring formal complaints, many acts of violence and moral and sexual harassment would not be punished, even if the facts were considered serious. In addition, it is my responsibility that informal complaints may eventually become formal, provided that the prevention advisor, who is employed in the Defence and in charge of the complainant's case, considers the burden to be sufficiently heavy. However, the question of the adviser's dependence on the system under his control may arise. In view of these elements, I would like to ask you the following questions: Do you have overall figures of the number of formal and informal complaints that the Defence registered in 2016 for cases of violence and moral and sexual harassment? What is the trend observed in recent years? In addition, did the defence services plan to strengthen measures and procedures to limit this fear of reprisals among complainants and thus encourage the introduction of formal complaints? Is there any room for reflection in favour of strengthening the autonomy of the complaints control system within the ministry?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u17	Mr Calomne, the department for prevention and protection at work specializing in psychosocial aspects does not deal with complaints. The figures deal with requests for informal and formal psychosocial interventions. The request for formal psychosocial intervention is not legal and therefore cannot lead to convictions. Only legal action can take place. In 2016, seven new formal psychosocial interventions were registered, including one for moral and sexual harassment at work. Also in 2016, 164 new informal psychosocial interventions were registered, including 14 for moral harassment, 3 for sexual harassment at work and 25 for violence. There is a decrease in the number of requests for formal psychosocial interventions (31 in 2014 and 7 in 2016) and a decrease in requests for informal psychosocial interventions (224 in 2014 and 147 in 2016). The Internal Service for Prevention and Protection at Work has a department specializing in psychosocial aspects at work which continues to develop. The Defence has established a network of 95 trusted people, spread across the neighbourhoods to be closest to staff members. A restructuring has just made it possible to set up prevention advisers at local level on psychosocial aspects at work. The Service for Prevention and Protection at Work acts on the basis of the Act of 28 February 2014 and the Royal Decree of 10 April 2014. The aim of the law is to use the means of action gradually. In this spirit, it is a matter of finding more solutions to problematic situations through informal procedures. In addition, the preventive component becomes a priority over the reactive component, i.e. requests for informal and formal interventions. We prefer to work preventively rather than reactively. Both trustworthy persons and the counsellor in the prevention of psychosocial risks at work are legally protected in order to be able to carry out their duties independently. Within Defence, this autonomy is respected. In other words, to date, no Defence body has, to my knowledge, put pressure on people of trust or prevention advisors dealing with psychosocial aspects at work. This problem therefore did not require any specific reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the various elements you have just communicated to us. Of course, I note that the figures are still important, but they are decreasing significantly. It is also important to note this, both formal and informal. I also take note of the various measures that you are implementing and the preventive aspect that you have wished to develop. I think it is important to react when cases arise, but also to prevent their appearance. Prevention is indeed the best response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u19	Madam President, Minister, at the end of January, your Dutch colleague, Mr Plasschaert, informed the Dutch Parliament that the Dutch F-16 fighter planes cannot be ready in time to replace the Belgian F-16 aircraft on 1 July 2017 as part of the international coalition against IS in Iraq and Syria. The Dutch F-16 aircraft will only be able to replace the Belgian aircraft from 1 January 2018, six months after the agreed date. In the media you have noted that we are still looking at, and I quote, how we can ensure the continuity of this mission with regard to the air base there in an intelligent way, but the budget does not allow our F-16 aircraft to fly any longer. Mr Minister, have you spoken to your Dutch colleague about this situation? What is their proposal to ensure the continuity of the mission? Have you been in contact with the leaders of the international coalition against ISIS? Have any possible alternatives been found to ensure the continuity of the mission? What slopes are there? What could that actually mean for our commitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u20	Madam President, Minister, I am going to leave out the introduction because the problem is well known. I'll go straight to my questions. Have you received a question to extend the mission with the F-16 Tunisians over Iraq and Syria after July? Secondly, if that is the case, what proposal will you submit to the Council of Ministers? I understand that alternatives would be sought for our commitment, together with the Dutch. You said that if the Dutch can't get it technically done, so can we. So the question is how we are going to replace our efforts in Syria with the international coalition. Thirdly, you can provide an estimate of the budget for the possible extension of this mission. What implications does this have for the defense budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my answer is in fact rather short. The Belgian Defense will comply with the agreements made regarding the deployment of our F-16 people in the fight against Daesh and will therefore be present in the theatre until 1 July 2017. A possible extension of our contribution is not currently planned and not budgeted by the Defense Department. Alternatively, several possibilities were explored to bridge the six-month period with other nations, but without success. We must stop saying that the reason why we cannot extend this is simply a budgetary matter. If you ask about the budget, half a year's commitment costs to and from the EUR 23 million, which is significant in a total package of EUR 67 million for operations this year. The elements cited by the Dutch regarding the non-availability of their aircraft and pilots, of course, also stand out for us. You should not forget that on 1 July 2017 we will have contributed a full year to a high rhythm to the fight against Daesh. The arguments regarding pilot training, aircraft maintenance and so on are equally valid for us as they are for others. So it is not just a budgetary problem. What are we going to do? Together with the Netherlands, we will provide an interim detachment during the second semester of 2017 on the basis of a balanced distribution key in this case, to monitor the different locations on the development base, in order to keep the chair warm for later new interventions. I would also like to say, too informally, although this does not really exist here, that I hope that after the next exchange we will be much further on the campaign against Daesh and that the contribution we will make will be of a different level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u22	Thank you for your answer, Minister. July 1st is still a bit away from us. I believe that a number of things can still be done at international level between now and 1 July, in particular with regard to developments on the front. As you yourself pointed out, we do not know what situation we are in at the time and what that means for the commitment of the entire international coalition. Secondly, there is uncertainty about the Dutch cabinet. They're in election mode right now. We do not know what will happen when there is a new Dutch cabinet and what will then be put forward in terms of commitment and priorities. Our country's defense has taken on its responsibilities in the international coalition. We must continue to do so, in accordance with the commitments we have made and the commitments we have made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. It is not just a question of budgets, but also of operationality and technical possibilities. I am surprised that no alternatives have been sought in the Netherlands to provide for this. It is good that we can maintain our presence there. It's good to keep the chair warm, in an F-16 or somewhere else. With the limitations that exist, in all respects, we must continue to contribute to the fight against Daesh. The question is where we will be with operational matters and the objectives of the international coalition in a year's time, but it is a good thing that we stay there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u24	I would like to stress that our contribution with the F-16 pesetas is not our only contribution to the fight against Daesh. Today we also contribute to the training, but also to advice and assist much closer to the front, which is of course a direct contribution to defeating IS and recapturing, for example, Mosul.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u25	Madam President, Minister, on September 26, 2016, General Testelmans, head of the SGRS, addressed a letter to the President of the SPF Foreign Affairs. He requested that the archives of the Congolese Public Force, currently stored at the headquarters of the SPF Affaires étrangères, rue des Petits Carmes in Brussels, be transferred to the headquarters of the SGRS, within the headquarters of the Défense. The Public Force was a hybridization of army and police, active in the territory of our former colony between 1885 and 1962. During the two world conflicts, some members of the Public Force served under the Belgian flags and played a role alongside the Allied armies in the fight against the various occupants, particularly on the African continent. This request by General Testelmans is particularly surprising. Indeed, all these archives are now more than 50 years old. The statutory deadline for payment to the General Archives of the Kingdom has therefore been exceeded since 2012 for all the documents concerned. In addition, under a memorandum of understanding signed on December 11, 2014 between the State Archives and the SPF Foreign Affairs, the 10 kilometres of so-called "African" archives are to be gradually transferred, until 2018, from the SPF Foreign Affairs to the State Archives. We discussed this at length with you in the Justice Committee during the discussions on a bill. This letter from the head of the SGRS upsets the House as it is debating the fate of the Defence archives at the moment, on the occasion of the revision of the law of 30 November 1998 organic of the intelligence services. Minister, what are the reasons why the Defence wishes to divert part of the African archives from the path that they should take to the State Archives under the memorandum of understanding referred to above? How many metres of archives are involved in this possible deviation? Is this batch of records claimed by the Defence related to classified documents? How many metres of records do they relate to classified documents? Has this file progressed since September 26, 2016? If so, what answers were provided by the FPS Foreign Affairs to General Testelmans, Chief of Army Intelligence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u26	Mr Hellings, your question goes directly to the essence of the absolute core tasks of national defence. The current infrastructure of the State archives does not permit the management of the archives covered by the Act of 11 December 1998. The Public Force Archival Fund contains classified documents from the Department of Defence and Colonies. If the FPS Foreign Affairs wishes to relocate it to gain space, the Department of Defence proposes to become its new manager, in accordance with the principle of destination of archive pieces. Thus, researchers could consult it within a single organisation: the archives relating to the Belgian army, the metropolitan forces and the police. The Public Force Archival Fund is 55 metres long. It's all classified. Following the request for transfer by the Defence Staff dated September 26, 2016, the FPS Foreign Affairs requested, on November 18, 2016, to provide reasons for this request. The staff submitted their arguments on January 17 of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u27	Minister, I have seized your sarcasm from the beginning. Researchers who will read us in 10 or 15 years will measure the historical scope of your comments. On the other hand, the memorandum of understanding is clear: the 10 kilometres of African archives, including the 50 metres you have just mentioned, must pass from the FPS Foreign Affairs to the appropriate place where all the archives of the State are located and the necessary expertise: to the General Archives of the Kingdom. They are in the process of preparing a vade mecum, a complete book containing all the references on all the archives concerning the African history of our country. To better understand the future, it is important that our researchers also have access to documents that will eventually be declassified. All the documents referred to here are more than 50 years old and it is perfectly legitimate in a democratic state that after a normal period of 50 years, when most of the actors of the facts have died, our democracy can face its colonial past and our researchers can shed light on this past. To do this, they must have access to the primary sources that your services hide from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament 16371 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u29	Minister, on 2 February, a press article mentioned a petition about the Army Museum, which is indeed on the Internet and which is entitled: "Hold-up at the Army Museum, or how to destroy the State through its national heritage." The War Heritage Institute was founded by the War Heritage Institute. Minister, the news is insinuating that the Army Museum is being robbed by Flanders through this reform into War Heritage Institute. The terminology used was: "Flemish raid has already begun. About 15 000 objects from the Army Museum are already in Flanders." Can you explain whether there is a basis for truth in that? What happens in reality to the collections? It is also mentioned that the federal state loses ownership of the historical collections managed by the War Heritage Institute and that they can easily be alienated in the future. Is that right? What is the degree of legal protection that the historical collections will enjoy? It is also claimed that, after four years, Flanders will be able to take control of the collections on its territory, referring to the masterpiece decree. The example is quoted of the Plant Garden of Meise, which Flanders would have appropriated. Is such an evolution possible? Can Flanders take control of the historical pieces of the War Heritage Institute?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u30	Madam President, allow me first of all to say that I am actually quite satisfied. People seem to be concerned about the tradition of the Army Museum and its collections. In fact, anyone who has signed the petition today would have better looked at the situation and invested in the Army Museum over the past twenty years, but that aside. Now I come to your questions. All collections of the Royal Army Museum and Military History are and will remain the property of the Federal State even after integration into the War Heritage Institute. This is explicitly mentioned in a draft law that the WHI will establish. That draft will soon be submitted to Parliament. Moreover, the collections cannot be alienated with regard to the status of federal scientific institution. Moreover, in order to obtain this status, we have consulted all the interested parties, regions and Communities, as should be the case. Given the richness of the collection of the Royal Army Museum, it cannot be fully preserved in the museum itself and part of it is stored in depots spread across the national territory, including Flanders. The collection pieces that have been stored in Flanders for more than five years cannot be acquired or purchased by Flanders in any way, as no collection piece of the Royal Army Museum is on the top pieces list mentioned in the top pieces decree. Besides, in order to be included on the toppiece list in those circumstances, the owner, and in this case the Federal State, must give his consent. I repeat that that question has never arisen and will never arise. In concrete terms, it means that there has never been a problem and that there will never be a problem in bringing collections back to Brussels if necessary. Finally, I would like to mention that at the WHI there will be a central main museum, in particular that of the Cinquantenaire Park. It will present the full history of military conflicts on Belgian territory or conflicts in which Belgians have participated. It will be a story of Belgium as a battlefield of Europe. It is therefore only natural that the most beautiful collections in that central museum will be exhibited. I think that everyone who knows the KLM will agree with me to say that if we want to achieve a certain level of ambition, we need to make necessary investments, for which we will have to find partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear answer. Until now, the Army Museum has been synonymous with a mess of management structures, which has caused many abuses, which have been indicted in numerous parliamentary questions in recent years. The government is finally working to harmonise management in order to secure those historical collections and our heritage. In this way we can restore those historical collections in full glory, which the museum deserves. I deeply regret that petition. She has really deceived the public and contains no basis for truth. That's what your answers tell us. I do not think that most signatories were aware of the actual situation at all. Minister, I think it was really a PS petition, especially directed against the N-VA, to be honest. We made a work visit to the Army Museum. I have experienced very little interest from the PS there. Our group was there and was genuinely interested. The actual protest seems to me to be related to the evolution of four management structures into a single management structure, and that is all about the loss of posts. Thank you again for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael 16445 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u33	Mr Minister, the programme phase of the replacement of our F16 fighter aircraft is in full swing, but it is still waiting for the Request for Government Proposal (RfGP) to determine what our new aircraft will actually be able to do and what requirements they will have to meet. On this basis, the aircraft manufacturers who are in the running will make a precise offer and then the final cost can be determined. The RfGP would have been ready for some time at the level of the Defence Staff and the Treasury Inspectorate would have also approved it. In the Chamber on 25 January, you said that this RfGP is indeed ready, but has not yet been discussed in the Council of Ministers. First of all, when did the Defense Staff transfer the RfGP proposal to you? Is it true that the Treasury Inspectorate has given her agreement? If so, when? Secondly, why was the RfGP not yet discussed in the Council of Ministers? When is this planned? When will the decision be made? Thirdly, will the approved RfGP be shared with Parliament? What will the procedures be? What are you prepared to do? You said on 25 January that the Army Purchases and Sales Commission would be informed in advance. Does this mean that this committee will have access to the entire RfGP, or is this an edited version that will be made public? In addition, there is an opportunity to involve the more public Committee of Defence on a number of aspects of the RfGP. Fourthly, you also said in committee that the government is deciding on the preservation of the Belgian fighter planes that can carry out nuclear missions and that you would respect that decision. This is about the nuclear capacity of the new fighter planes. Has that decision been made now? Does this mean that you will respect the decision taken, or does this mean that the decision has not yet been taken? I would like to make this clear, because there has been a statement from Colonel Harold Van Pee who states that it is effectively the intention to register the nuclear capacity for new fighter aircraft in that RfGP, that this is one of the criteria that the government is putting forward for the new aircraft. Finally, does the delay in the adoption of the RfGP jeopardise the rest of the timeframe? The deadline is at the end of 2018. The decision has to be made, but it continues to drag on. What's the timeline there?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u34	Minister, on February 2, the Commander of the Defence Air Component, Major General Frederik Vansina, stated that time was beginning to run for the replacement of the current F-16 bomber fighter aircraft. Indeed, the staff initially hoped to launch the Request for Government Proposal (RfGP) in early 2015, and we are in early 2017. It would appear that this issue is failing to reach the stage of government analysis, especially since last year's announcement of the postponement of the military retirement date, a decision with a clearly underestimated budgetary impact, as we heard here last week at the hearings of the various defence unions. Before that, you announced, on 30 January in Het Belang van Limburg, that the continuation of F-16 operations after July 2017 in Iraq and Syria was not planned on a budgetary level. You just made it clear again. You added in this article that "this operation requires a lot of our pilots and equipment". You thus joined, point by point, the analysis already deployed by the Dutch commander, this time Tom Middendorp, during his hearing at the Tweede kamer on 27 September 2016. The army of the Netherlands is not ready to take over from the Belgian army on the scheduled date, for both budgetary and logistical reasons. Hence, Minister, the four questions I wish to ask you. What economic sense does it have to involve the Belgian State in a public procurement contract for 34 fighter bombers at a price of €3.573 billion, with an estimated 40-year budgetary impact of €15 billion, while the current mission of the six F-16s to Iraq and Syria is already not financially and logistically sustainable, to the point that it must be terminated prematurely? Could you give me an estimate of the budgetary impact, by 2030, of this increase in the pension age for the military, which, obviously, has a crucial effect on the current state of the F-16 aircraft replacement file? How will Belgium react to a possible request for an extension of the current mission to Iraq and Syria? You have already responded to Mr Buysrogge and Mr Luxen before. Finally, my fourth question is: on 25 January, you specified in the Defence Committee, as Mr. De Vriendt, whether the government would make a decision as to whether or not the replacements of the F-16 would carry the American atomic weapon. Will this decision be made long before the RfGP is published? What is the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u35	Minister, we have recently been able to read in the press that, through their new Minister for Defence, the US expects and even insists that all Member States bear their share of the cost of the collective defence of Europe in NATO. Our government therefore adopted an ambitious investment plan in 2015, as part of the strategic vision for defence, and even announced it at the last NATO summit in Warsaw. The implementation of these plans, including the replacement of the F-16, is delayed. I have a few questions in that context. Firstly, the launch of the handbook for the replacement of the F-16s and the start of the programme phase were announced earlier in this committee. What are the latest prospects? Secondly, are there any major obstacles to the publication of the announced specifications for the replacement of our 40-year-old fighter aircraft? If so, which one? Finally, soon, probably in May, there is a new NATO summit with President Trump. Do you think that our government can deliver on its promise and then publish the handbook to initiate the procedure for the approved replacement of the F-16s?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u36	Madam President, Minister, to a previous question asked, about a month ago, on January 25, you replied that the call for tenders was ready: "We are ready for the launch of the specifications, in other words for the Request for Government Proposal (RfGP). While waiting for a general-major of the army released publicly in the press on 1 February to complain about the delay, recalling that the launch of the call for tenders was expected in early 2015. At the time, you also added that you could not say that the decision on nuclear capacity would be taken in a short time. Minister, what is the status of this call for tenders? A month ago, you said he was ready. Was it discussed within the government? If so, what are the conclusions? If not, what's blocking? I do not understand how the government can have, on the one hand, a tender ready, and, on the other hand, still not decided on nuclear capability. Can you explain it? It seems clear, however, that nuclear capacity is one of the criteria for tendering.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer you to my answers to your oral question No. 15988 and to the oral questions Nos. 15556, 15826, 15892 and 16027 of Members of Parliament Pirlot, Top and Van Hees on 25 January 2017. Having said that, Madam President, I must say that I do not fully understand the opposition's signals, because we are concerned that we would be too late to replace our F-16 capacity. I heard questions here like where the replacement is. I heard comments such as that it takes too long and that the aircraft must have capabilities that may not yet be available today. It's unbelievable. In any case, I would like to thank the Ecolo-Green Group for its support in this important dossier for the Belgian Defence. I understand from Mr Hellings that 34 aircraft will not suffice. I'd like to hear how many planes he'd buy in that case. The decision to maintain, yes or no, the possibility for future Defence combat aircraft to carry out nuclear missions is a decision that will be taken by the government. Mr De Vriendt, I repeat once again that once the final version of the RFGP is referred to as the Request for Government Proposal, then we know that we are talking about the same thing to the state agencies, the degree of openness will be decided by the government. However, I can tell you that I am in favour of absolute openness with regard to all the documents of the RFP. I can also confirm to you, Mr De Vriendt, Mrs Grosemans, that the Inspector-General of Finance did indeed give his opinion on the file on the replacement of the F-16 at the stage of the application for a prior agreement on 30 January 2017. The dossier is now being prepared to be submitted to the Committee on Army Procurement, which must give an opinion before we can submit the dossier to the Council of Ministers. The timeline allows to conclude a contract in the second half of 2018. Mr Hellings, it is my intention and that of the government to buy new combat aircraft. The possibility of extending the mission to Iraq and Syria has not been explored, since no questions have been raised in this regard by our allies. The budgetary implications of increasing the retirement age for members will be determined once the implementation measures have been finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u38	Minister, I had also asked a question about nuclear capacity, referring to the statements made by Colonel Harold Van Pee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u39	Mr De Vriendt, there are many statements that are expressed in various ways in the media. I tell you that the government will make a decision and that I will implement that government decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u40	What the colonel says, isn't it? After all, he says that this will be included as one of the criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u41	You're already quoting what Knack has wrongly written.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u42	No, I'm not quoting at all wrong. I'd like to show you the article again later. The article clearly states that the colonel says it will be included as one of the criteria. So that's not true?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u43	The colonel has certainly not indicated that it will be included as one of the criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u44	That was a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u45	For the rest, I think it is very logical for the opposition to ask questions about this. Indeed, the majority would do a little more, because it is a very large budget and it is a very delicate dossier. It's a lot of money. We believe that it is not up to a country like Belgium to invest in such heavy-duty fighter aircraft that could then carry nuclear weapons on sale. We would specialize much better in other areas, in which we can excel, but that is clearly not the slope we are apparently following. I also regret that you do not want to address the issue of nuclear capacity, while people in the Defense Department do. You, as the competent minister, apparently do not want to make any judgment on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u46	Minister, once again, your bad faith is an insult to your intelligence – and I say it kindly! You asked how many planes it takes for Ecolo-Groen. I told you zero, but in fact, it takes four to six, that is, enough to be able to assume Air Policing, that is, the ability of our state to participate in actions with other states or to protect our territory from possible enemy or hijacked aircraft. We are opposed to a market of 15 billion over forty years for obvious budgetary reasons. We have something else to do with that money! There are trains, metros, trams, hospitals and schools to build. That's what public money is for, not to buy fighter planes. Our second argument is strategic. Today, Canada will withdraw its six CF-18 bombers from Iraq and Syria. It was Justin Trudeau's decision that "strikes were only useful in the short term to gain military benefits on the ground. On the other hand, they do not provide stability for local populations in the long term." And he adds that "the people terrorized daily by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria do not need our revenge. They need our help." This is an excellent strategic point of view. I share it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u47	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u48	It's not El Assad you're fighting, Minister. On the contrary! You collaborate with him through associations and memories of understanding (MoU) with Russia. Then stop! You know very well, with your plucky phrases that you don't touch the bottom strategic problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u49	Mr Minister, unlike my fellow Members, I am confident that the government will no longer be dragging its feet to submit the instructions to the special Committee on Army Purchases, where the instructions can be discussed. I am also confident that fair and transparent competition will take place and that the decision will be taken in due course in this legislature. I also find it odd that the focus is no longer on purchasing that capacity from those fighter planes. Apparently, there is an agreement between the majority and the opposition. Now the focus has shifted to the nuclear, to the nuclear weapons, and I find that very strange. It has often been said in this committee that this is not really an issue for this government, since that decision is taken at the earliest in 2025. Minister, you have also said very often in this committee that no device is currently accredited to carry nuclear capacity. Mr Hellings says that money must be invested in social security and education. It is true that these investments must be made, but our security is equally important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u50	Minister, I want to reassure you! For my part, I am not looking forward to the F-16 replacement. If this is done around 3025 for example, it would be very good! Hopefully, by then, NATO and such warring forces will no longer exist! Parliamentary oversight of government action and the desire for some transparency are fairly legitimate. You say you plead for maximum transparency on the RfGP but you add as soon as "it is the government that decides"! You yourself show little transparency in your answers. I ask you for the second time the question about nuclear capability. Your colleague Reynders said that this nuclear capability would exist, but you refuse to answer. I still don't understand how a call for tenders can be made without clarity on nuclear capability!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u51	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Alain Top's 16471 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u52	Madam President, Minister, the recent terrorist attack that took place in the perimeter of the Louvre Museum, which directly targeted military personnel, once again underlines the important role that soldiers play in the face of the threat to our country, as well as the need to better protect those wearing uniforms. Indeed, the savage aggression committed in Paris recalls that members of the armed forces are privileged targets of terrorism, in particular because the jihadists believe that by attacking the protectors of a country, they weaken it. I had the opportunity to question you last May on this subject. Minister, at this time, what is the level of alert for the safety of our soldiers? Have any specific measures been taken to strengthen the protection of members of the armed forces, both as part of their deployment in urban areas and as part of the security of military installations? What is the state of synergy with your Public Safety counterpart, Deputy Prime Minister Jambon, on the safety of street soldiers? Are new measures being studied by your respective firms? Do some leads already capture your preference?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u53	Mr. Calomne, the current state of defence alert is based, on the one hand, on the assessment of the level of the terrorist threat by the OCAM and, on the other, on an internal analysis to determine the measures to be taken to enhance the security of Defence personnel and infrastructure. You will understand that, for security reasons, no further information can be provided in this regard. The protective measures of our soldiers are adapted to the mission in support of the police. Individual equipment, weapons and specific training take into account a balance between mobility and protection. In order to increase effectiveness, behavioural identification courses are planned, in consultation with the police, for prevention rather than intervention. A study is under way at the operational level to further improve the synchronization of police and defence actions, thereby increasing the security of military and police personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note of the fact that there is consultation with the police, that courses will be given and that a study on synchronization between the police and the military is under way. The sad news of a fairly close city reminds us that those who are supposed to protect us are in turn becoming targets and that it is also necessary to ensure their protection. We will remain vigilant about the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u55	Madam Chair, Minister, Defence recently conducted a major exercise between Florennes and Yvoir. This life-size exercise placed more than 200 military personnel in a multi-bridge capture simulation along the Meuse. The operation therefore required the establishment of numerous support and transport equipment. Our Defence is a member of the European Union Battle Group (EUBG) and can therefore be called upon to defend European interests. These exercises train young recruits and place them in situations that simulate a war operation. Minister, according to your department, what are the costs of an exercise of this magnitude? How many such exercises can be organised each year? Do military experts consider that their numbers are sufficient? According to them, is it possible to estimate the contribution of these trainings to the military? While the countries where our Defence currently operates are mainly in Africa, the Middle East in Central Asia, would it not be preferable to practice such exercises in countries with similar profiles? On average, what would be the cost of such an exercise abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u56	Mrs Jadin, the exercise to which you refer took place from 27 January to 3 February as part of the preparation of the European Union Battle Group. Some 250 military personnel participated. Its total cost is about 150 000 euros. The number of exercises is related to Belgium's commitments to the European Union and/or NATO. Each detachment follows a preparation that includes a series of exercises ranging from the individual level to the entire internal detachment certification exercise. This cycle ensures the proper preparation of the mission while maintaining the level of operationality of our military. Within the specific framework of the EUBG, but also within the NATO Response Force, the location of operational engagement is not known in advance. This is not a problem because tactics and procedures can be easily carried out in Belgium. Where possible, training activities with international partners, conducted in the conditions specific to foreign theatres (desert, jungle, great cold, etc.)), are integrated into the preparation cycle. Training abroad obviously incurs additional costs related to the transportation and parking of equipment and personnel, as well as the rental of training facilities. For an exercise of the same magnitude as the 12th and 13th of the line, the additional costs for training in a neighbouring country amount to approximately EUR 300 000, a doubling of the costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u57	Minister, you have answered all my questions perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 165, by Mr Alain Top and Question No 165, by Mr Alain Top 16572 by Mr Sébastian Pirlot were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Sébastian Pirlot's 16626 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u59	Madam President, Minister, on 7 February last your counterpart, the German Defence Minister, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, had to take a replacement (commercial) flight to travel across Europe after the arrest of the brand new A400M of the German air force due to an engine problem. On February 9, the Luftwaffe announced that only one of its eight military transport aircraft (A400M) was in service. Airbus placed EUR 5 billion in the form of provisions for this programme as soon as it discovered problems related to its transmission box and cracks on the aircraft's fuselage. In May 2016, the boss of Airbus had recognized in the Bild columns "huge errors" in the management of this very important programme for the future of the European aviation industry. It is recognized that the main problem of the A400M is its engine. So this doesn't seem to work out. Minister, in response to a question asked by a colleague (I think it was Mr Pirlot) at the Defence Committee on 14 December 2016, you said that the reception of the first Belgian A400M is scheduled for 2019. Are the problems encountered by the German army such as to suggest that this estimated delivery time will be extended? Following the incident I have just reported, Airbus has announced to the German Ministry of Defence that it intends to deliver 10 aircraft to the Luftwaffe in 2017, instead of the 12 originally planned, and 13 in 2018 instead of the 14 promised. Has Airbus communicated to the Belgian Defence a suitable provisional timetable of the same type? If so, what is it? The accumulated years of delay in the A400M programme increased the bill for Germany to EUR 9.6 billion compared to the initial estimate of EUR 8.1 billion, estimated the Luftwaffe in December 2016. To what sum does the Defence estimate the cost of delays in the A400M programme for Belgium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u60	Madam President, Mr Hellings, in 2016, the A400M fleet suffered from technical problems due to the transmission box, it seems. In the meantime, an intermediate technical solution has been implemented and this has resulted in a significant increase in engine availability. The final transmission transmission evolution solution is being tested and certified. This evolution implemented by the end of 2017 must restore the nominal performance of the transmission transmission and ensure the expected availability of the engines. The Luxembourg aircraft as well as the Belgian aircraft will be equipped with the latest evolution of the transmission box. To date, the contract delivery dates for the Belgian-Luxembourg fleet remain unchanged with the eight aircraft delivered between February 2019 and November 2020. However, in recent discussions about a possible realignment of the contract, the industry submitted a proposal for phased delivery from September 2019 instead of February 2019, resulting in a likely postponement of deliveries. Today, the total price of the A400M acquisition programme remains unchanged with a Belgian budget envelope of EUR 1.19 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u61	Minister, I therefore hear that it is likely that the program will be seven months late. In the past, your predecessors have announced years of delay. It doesn't work out. In the case of Belgium, I mean that you do not expect an increase in cost. I note that in Germany there has been an increase in this cost and that is why I invite you to be extremely attentive. As with the NH-90 helicopter, I encourage you to keep in touch with your European colleagues who have acquired the same type of product, in this case the Airbus, in order to be stronger in the negotiations. Indeed, I believe that we have left, both for the NH-90 programme and the A400M, for long-term problems and that it will be a matter for the European public authorities to offer a coordinated response to these suppliers of tools, perhaps extremely efficient if they work, but in any case extremely expensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 16716 was postponed. Question No 16759 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez Mr De Vriendt is currently asking a question in another committee, but he will come back immediately to Question No 5, by Mr De Vriendt, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and on behalf of the Committee on the Environment,
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u63	Mr Minister, at the hearing in the Committee on Defence of the Social Partners representing the military unions, the issue of bilingualism bonuses was raised. On this occasion, the question was raised of the extension of this bonus to plurilingualism, an extension which, for my part, I find very interesting for various reasons. First of all, the nature of the current conflicts and the places of intervention make it necessary to have a practical knowledge of the languages spoken on the ground, either between the forces of a coalition, or with the inhabitants, etc., and in particular the languages belonging to the Arabic linguistic group. A second reason for interest, which is increasingly a major issue, is the reliability of military translations in conflict zones. An important book on this subject was published by American researcher Emily Apted, who titled her book Translation Zones, which makes clear the relationship with conflict zones. Finally, another perhaps interesting element to be raised is that in order to make the military career attractive for young people, particularly in the event of a subsequent vocational reorientation, it would be useful to promote plurilingual learning. Minister, what do you think of these elements? If so, what could you consider implementing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u64	Mr Miller, thank you for your question. I agree with you, it is clear that knowledge of languages is very important to everyone. You also know that from next academic year, the Masters of the Royal Military School will be taught in English. That said, at the budget level, because there are implications here too, Defence grants its staff a linguistic bonus in the event of bilingualism. This bonus is limited to the knowledge of the second national language. Currently, there are no concrete initiatives to extend this bonus to other languages in Defence. However, without any mention of a bonus, knowledge of one or more foreign languages is an asset for the development of the person's career. It is taken into account, inter alia, in professional evaluations. You know that we give our staff a lot of opportunities to take complementary courses, etc. Not everything should be translated into bonuses. It may be motivating, but the important thing is knowledge of the language.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u65	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I am pleased to hear that you also feel that this dimension of language knowledge is important, including on the military ground. I refer here simply to the wish of a trade union which has really developed a reflection on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u66	Minister, I would like to come back to you with respect to the project of a neighbourhood committee wishing to carry out, on a temporary basis, certain small adjustments on part of the military terrain of the Luchet d'Antoing in Tournai owned by National Defence. The Saint-Jean committee proposes to develop it in order to make use of a whole neighbourhood of light facilities to create a link and to energize life in the community. In November 2016, a meeting between the members of this neighbourhood committee and the representatives of the Régie des Bâtiments and National Defence had resulted in an agreement to create a two-year, renewable temporary occupancy agreement between Defence and the committee. However, at the beginning of the year, I was unpleasantly surprised that the draft convention drafted by Defence did not respect anything that had been agreed at the meeting. First, this agreement binds Defence with the city of Tournai when it was to bind it with the neighbourhood committee. Secondly, the price charged for the occupation of this part of the land is EUR 2,271 per year, whereas it had been explicitly understood that it would be free of charge or, possibly, at a very moderate price. At the same time, more than 2,000 euros a year for a neighbourhood committee is far from being moderate! Have the terms of the agreement been defined and accepted by all stakeholders at last November's meeting been transferred to the drafter of the convention? If so, how can it be explained that it does not correspond to what had been agreed? Will a new draft convention be drafted?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u67	Mr Delannois, following last November's consultation, I informed Minister Marghem by mail that there was no objection to the Defence granting, on this site, a federal authorization on a precarious basis for a period of two years, renewable up to four years. This authorization was transmitted to the city of Tournai. However, I informed the local authorities that the authorization could be signed by the ASBL Comité Saint-Jean provided that the latter and the City agreed on the proper maintenance of the site. It's up to the City to decide if it's keeping this authorization at its level. The charge is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. However, it will remain due to the beneficiary of the authorisation in order to guarantee equal treatment among all dealers in our territory. Equality is one of your values. I'm just doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u68	Minister, I don't know if you know that, but the army and the city of Tournai have had excellent relations for a long time. Do you know that this land, which is yours, is the city that maintains it? Do you know that we have been holding him for an eternity, and that without agreement? Why? Because it has always been the great love, between the army and the city of Tournai. Not only have we maintained it without convention for a very long time, but we do it for free. You hear well: for free! So if you're talking to me about equality, it would be quite logical that, for the years that we've been maintaining your land and mowing it for free, you've been giving us back the same. Now, if I were as petty as some of your administration, I'd stop this collaboration right away. But I will reassure you: we do not grow up by responding to bassness by mediocrity. I'll see with the city of Tournai what to do to try and find a solution for a neighbourhood committee. We're good on a neighborhood committee. They say we have to take care of people's concerns. I have the impression that those who are at the head of the big mute sometimes don't hear very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u69	Minister, on 13 February, the British NGO Airwars presented its report to the press on its follow-up to the military operations of the international coalition in Iraq and Syria. Members of civil society peace associations had made the trip for the occasion. Government officials did not appear to be sufficiently interested in attending the event. According to Airwars, an NGO composed of investigative journalists from Belgium, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, the USA and Denmark, the six Belgian F-16s operating in Syria and Iraq since the start of Operation Desert Falcon in October 2014, carried out 796 sorties and 163 bombings. These are in any case the figures known until September 30, 2016, the date of your last communication on the subject, so four and a half months ago, an eternity. You also claim that, during these bombings, the Belgian army never caused civilian casualties. The coalition acknowledges that it killed 199 civilians. Airwars estimates that at least 2,300 civilian casualties (a conservative figure) would have to be counted since the start of operations, based on reports that the NGO has been able to cross-check and verify. These figures support those of the United Nations. In addition, the history of bombing figures in Afghanistan states that it is reasonable to count one civilian victim every seven to ten bombings. The problem raised unanimously is, above all, the impossibility of having proof that Belgium has not killed innocent people. Indeed, among the thirteen partners of the international coalition against Daesh, Belgium is simply ranked among the least transparent countries, according to the NGO. I have provided you with a table drawn up by the organization showing that only Jordan and the Netherlands are below our country, in terms of transparency on positions, dates, munitions used. If the Belgian army is said to be so effective in preventing any civilian casualties during its bombings, can it not make public the procedures it is implementing to achieve this? The rest of the world must benefit from this experience! You claim that you do not want to disclose the details of the operations for security reasons. Do you therefore feel that our Canadian or English colleagues would take a reckless risk of communicating many details of their operations on a regular basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u70	Mr Van Hees, this issue has already been widely debated in this committee. I would therefore refer you to oral question No 12278 by Mr Wouter De Vriendt, which was dealt with in committee on 29 June 2016, which dealt with exactly the same subject. As a reminder, Defence wishes to properly inform the public without, however, providing details that may have a negative impact on internal security and the security of the deployed detachment. Defence organizes press conferences at which it provides mainly quantitative information on the number of flying hours, the number of exits, the number of kinetic actions, the type of missions and the rules of engagement. Sensitive information concerning individual aerial bombardments or the number and type of bombs used shall be provided during meetings of the Commission responsible for monitoring operations abroad, which shall meet at least monthly. It is not my responsibility to comment on the position of our partners in this area. You say we're almost the last. But when I look at the picture, there are countries that are in front of us but that are more "in the red". And if I look at the Netherlands, they're even lower than us but they haven't been in the air since July 2016. Finally, I understand that an Airwars representative will be invited to our committee. You will then have the opportunity to chat with him! I am fully transparent in the committee responsible for monitoring operations abroad and answer all the questions asked!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u71	Mr Van Hees, on 22 March there will be a hearing with Airwars. So if you're still hungry, you can ask all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answers and further information. I hope that you will do us the honour of being present that day so that you can confront the opinions. You're telling us that it's total transparency. We have an NGO that puts us at the bottom of the table, although your reading of the table can be very interesting. I see two very different visions. Therefore, it would be very interesting to hear from you at the same time as the NGO Airwars to allow a real confrontation on transparency. Mr Minister, I repeat, if Belgium succeeds in carrying out so many bombings without any civilian casualties, could you tell us in detail how it is doing? If that is the truth, all nations must be able to benefit from this Belgian expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u73	Mr Van Hees, the committee has long established who will be present at that hearing. The Minister will not be present. Of course, defense will be represented. However, I would advise you to go through the Airwars website thoroughly, and you will already be very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u74	Mr De Vriendt has informed us that he can no longer join us. His question No. 16760 is therefore also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u75	Minister, while President Obama was already pressing for an increase in NATO member countries' military spending to reach 2% of GDP by 2024, it appears that new President Donald Trump has decided to accelerate the pace further. He had made several statements to that effect during the campaign. Recent visits by Secretary of Defense James Mattis and Vice-President Mike Pence leave no doubt. On a visit to our country and to NATO, Vice-President Mike Pence said that countries with a plan of action to achieve 2% had to "accelerate", and those that had not had to define one. "It's time to act and talk more," said Mike Pence, adding that "the president expects real progress by the end of 2017." As usual, the European states whose Belgium intends to follow the (bad) advice of their American imperialist brother-in-law. I hope not to shock you by using the word "imperialist"! Recently, the Secretary General of NATO was proud to announce that, under Obama's pressure, member states had already raised their budget by ten billion dollars. You were also proud to announce in the media that thanks to your strategic plan, spending would also increase in Belgium, notably through the purchase of the very expensive and useless fighter aircraft that we have just mentioned. Even today, it seems that NATO countries are once again willing to follow US demands and that Belgium wants to be a "good student". You said to the VRT TV on 16 February that it was necessary to "see within the government how to respond to this demand" (to increase the military budget), adding that "everyone is aware that the security situation has changed and will continue to change", and it is a legitimate question to increase the budget further. Meanwhile, the newspaper De Tijd calculated in an article of 7 February last that the 2% standard for Belgium would mean an increase in the military budget of EUR 5 billion. Mr Minister, do you confirm, as you have suggested quite clearly to the VRT, that you support the American demand for a further increase in the military budget? Has there ever been any discussion of this in the government? If not, when are they programmed? Do you confirm the additional €5 billion for the military budget to reach the 2% standard? Do you think we can and must do this by 2024? If so, where do you intend to find the means? When Mike Pence talks about real acceleration and progress by the end of 2017, what is he talking about? Have they been more concrete? In general, how do you think that the increase in military armaments can be any way to increase our security, when on the contrary we see that it is precisely the countries where the Westerners have intervened militarily that are today factors of instability at the global level? Don't you think there may also be a demand from the American military-industrial complex for more weapons behind the official American demands? Don't you think, given Donald Trump's coming to power in the United States and ricochet at the head of NATO, and the dangerous and warlike statements of the new president, this should be an incentive for the Belgian government to disengage from NATO rather than become more committed to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u76	Minister, like Mr Van Hees, we are in favour of implementing the strategic vision text. My question is a little more factual than Mr Van Hees's reflections on it. Last week there was a NATO meeting with the defence ministers, where the new US Secretary of Defense James Mattis made his appearance. During that meeting, which is an important signal from the US Government, he expressed his support for NATO cooperation. During his speech, he also spoke a warning language: "No longer must the US taxpayer pay disproportionately for the defence of Western values. It cannot be that Americans are more committed to the future safety of your children than you are doing yourselves. So, Minister, my questions are quite simple. What commitments has Minister Mattis made to NATO? What did Secretary-General Stoltenberg say? What position did you take at this meeting on behalf of the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u77	The importance of the Defence effort was decided by the government in the preamble accompanying the strategic vision approved by the Council of Ministers on June 29, 2016. By realizing this vision, Belgium will increase its defence effort from about 0.9% of GDP to 1.3% of GDP by 2030. You can consult this vision on my website. You will find that 1.3% of GDP represents a budget of €5 billion for the Department of Defense in 2030, in constant euros 2015, which is double the current budget. The realization of this vision and the accompanying budget line attest to the importance of the effort for our country and demonstrate to NATO that Belgium takes its security seriously. As I have also explained in my strategic vision, I am firmly convinced that security in Belgium can be improved by acting abroad where problems arise and originate. This does not necessarily have to take place with the help of kinetic abilities. Other Belgian Defence capabilities are also engaged in operations, with Belgium bringing its stone to the building. I would add that I have by no means been approached by the Americans to buy their equipment. Defence respects the rules of public procurement. Procurement is monitored internally by the Inspector of Finance, externally by the Parliamentary Military Procurement Committee, and if the parliament so wishes, by the Court of Auditors. In his speech, James Mattis, the new Secretary of Defense, said that the alliance should adapt to the new strategic challenges. The Member States must each assume their responsibilities in order to ensure that the alliance can continue to play its role as a whole and for future generations as well. The United States confirms their commitment to NATO, but at the same time says that their national political reality forces them to expect that the European Member States will also make a substantial contribution. A defence budget of 2% of GDP is seen by them as a legitimate requirement or a fair demand and is a confirmation of the commitments made by the allies in the past. Secretary-General Stoltenberg has indicated that this vision should be further explored within NATO. In the interventions I have made, I have paid particular attention to the way in which and how we contribute to the various actions and implementations of NATO in relation to the Readiness Action Plan. For example, Belgium has developed logistics enablings in the framework of the Enhanced Forward Presence. By the way, we have been the first Member State to put boots on the ground. That's a scoop. This until the end of the year. After that, it is also the case that we always play our part in the Enhanced Baltic Air Policing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u78	Mr Minister, thank you for confirming this enormous amount of EUR 5 billion. The question is how to finance it in the budget. You obviously don't answer that. You'll tell us this isn't your job. I am also reassured to learn that you have not been approached by the American military-industrial industry. I'm pushing an of for relief! That said, I don't know if it's necessary. When we look at the F-16 replacement file, we realize that the conditions called for by NATO, which is dominated by the United States, including nuclear capability, already eliminate competitors of the US military-industrial complex. Of course, we can already move in this direction. More fundamentally on these expenses, your argument that Belgium takes its safety seriously as a matter of great surprise to me. You speak as if we were under-armed, as if the NATO countries were under-armed and surrounded by enemies, they, overarmed and much more dangerous than us. In fact, NATO's countries amount to 900 billion euros. Our closest and most often cited enemy is Russia, which weighs 66 billion euros. That is 900 billion euros on the one hand and 66 billion euros on the other. After that, we still need to increase, to double for Belgium, the military budget. This is quite incomprehensible, especially as the government pursues a policy of austerity, cuts in social security, reduces public investment (trains, RER, etc.).), saves money in the public service. You are in charge of the public service files yourself. It's hard to follow that kind of reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u79	Mr Van Hees, it is remarkable that, with your background, you seem to have a great deal of insider knowledge of NATO and Defence to express such gratuitous assumptions. All right, we're talking about post-truth. That's what your assumptions are. Mr Minister, the new US government was strongly opposed to NATO, and Trump was in any case in his campaign. He has made a number of assumptions in full campaign. I have the impression that the newly installed government is making some adjustments. Vice President Pence has been to Munich and Brussels. Minister Mattis paid a visit to NATO. There was much more atonement than what campaign manager Trump did. At the same time, it puts us in charge of our responsibility. It is important to align our policies. Our army has always been very much appreciated internationally when it comes to deployment and operationality in many ongoing or past operations. On the other hand, the budget has been cut for years. Since the end of the Cold War, there has always been a backsliding of the budget. With the strategic vision, there is now finally a prospect of investing in Defence, in a lot of material. The aim of this is, on the one hand, to be a reliable partner and, on the other hand, to be a reliable partner and, on the other hand, to invest in safety now and in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u80	Minister, our country and the Netherlands have taken a decision of principle to buy frigates and mine hunters together. As part of the purchase of the frigates, it is currently being examined whether one would purchase missiles integrated into the Aegi system to intercept enemy ballistic missiles. In order to detect enemy missiles, the frigates must be equipped with specific radars that the frigates do not have today. This allows Belgian ships to bring down an enemy missile solely on the basis of radar data from friendly nations and not on an independent basis. Your spokesman has already indicated that the missiles could close the so-called capacity gap with NATO. Are you considering an investment in a weapons system that our country cannot manage independently? What would be the possible cost of such an investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u81	Ballistic-missile defence systems must indeed be placed in a NATO framework. Since ballistic-missile defence capacity must be able to protect developed groups or a national territory from ballistic missiles, it will have to be achieved on the basis of cooperation between allies. For this, NATO and its Member States will have to play different roles. As a reliable partner in the alliance, Belgium wants to contribute to this capacity. Today, we are already participating in such multinational capabilities as are managed by NATO, such as NATO's AWACS capacity. Many other national capacities are managed bi- or multinationally. An example is our capabilities in the Navy. An initial analysis shows that the chosen concept does not generate substantial additional costs for the construction of the frigates themselves. That is what is in the strategic vision today. Today, however, it is premature to comment on the cost of the entire BMD capacity, the various components of which are in full development and will be divided within the alliance. In other words, from the conception phase of the frigates, we are putting in place sufficient flexibility to be able to follow in a multinational programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u82	Minister, I think it is indeed a good thing that if that decision is taken, the frigates should be adapted so that they can be equipped with the immune system. On the other hand, as we will work with the Netherlands, we must ensure some uniformity. If we are to carry out orders, we must ensure that the same material is available, as far as possible, and is affordable. That is an important issue. We are also looking forward to the timing of the matter. From your answer, I understand that this will not be a problem for the construction and ordering of the frigates. We must be able to monitor the radars on the frigates, because that is essential. A defence system is a matter of course, but we must also have the radars.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u83	Madam President, Minister, in your 2017 policy paper, you indicated that Defence wants to outsource a number of domains. One of these domains is the catering and kitchen activities. In your policy paper, you say that a pilot project for outsourcing the catering activities for 2016 could not be finalised and that you will continue in 2017. In the meantime, Minister, do you already have a concrete project? What is the cost of that? What is the saving, because that is a bit the starting point? What impact will this have on users in terms of cost and quality? What will be the impact for the DOD kitchen staff? What projects are foreseen in the further deployment of such a system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u84	Mr Yüksel, I can confirm that the pilot project for outsourcing the catering activities of the Royal Military School is starting this year. The mission was budgeted by the Defence Staff at EUR 700 000 on an annual basis, but the prospect will show what the real cost will be. Currently 45 people are fully-time involved in the KMS catering industry. Those people will be deployed elsewhere. It's a pilot project. I know about projects from the past that have not always been successful. We will therefore have to look at the quality, the conditions and any adjustments. On this basis, we will be able to determine which project is best suited, according to the principle of learning from the past, for a further roll-out. It is too early to comment on this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u85	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is important to prepare and roll out this project properly. It is also important that the people who need to be deployed elsewhere should be given a function that fits their profile, experience and the work they are doing today. Where will the catering people be able to be deployed within the Defense Department? Will they carry out other assignments? What does this mean in concrete terms in terms of additional training and guidance? We must also be vigilant about this. We need to prepare for that. For example, will they, I'm just saying, patrol the streets? This project may need to be evaluated after one or two years. Perhaps other projects could be re-directed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u86	Mr Yüksel, this is, of course, a change for the 45 people who work there today. That's causing concern. However, we are not unhuman. In principle, the tender includes the possibility for a number of people to move to another employer, on the spot. That's the so-called outplacement. They will therefore not change their place, but they will, if necessary, change their employer's. Usually people are given different options when they mutate. This takes account of all kinds of issues, but above all of the fact that they have a number of capacities that have to be validated in one way or another.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for the clarification. We must, of course, give these people the best possible guidance and opportunities to continue our efforts in defence, either through outplacement or in a different position. When it comes to outplacement, one must of course look at the starting point of this exercise, namely ensuring efficiency and quality. It makes no sense to change the hat and I think it makes even less sense if it costs the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u88	We can go on about this, but it is a fact that we are going to outsourcing for a number of reasons. One of these reasons is that our number will fall in the future. We will therefore have to outsource a number of tasks. It is not just about setting up another hat, but also about a fundamentally different approach. I believe that in the event of a mutation, people will be given the choice between three or four proposals from the Defense Department. Certain uses apply in this respect. We will see to what extent we can respond to what people want. I would also like to remind you that in the private sector, catering is a bottleneck profession. In other words, there are a lot of options.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u89	Mr Yüksel, this was a comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u90	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer and the clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u91	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez-Fernandez's 16852 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Caprasse's 16861 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u92	Mr President, in my previous parliamentary questions, you have told me that the military district of Puisie has a certain potential to accommodate additional activities. You even thought it was good to add that the condition of the buildings was good. However, would the Puisie barracks be ready to accommodate an additional 500 people or should staff be rationalized in existing blocks? When you tell me that the condition of the buildings is good, can you tell me that blocks L18 and D2 are in perfect condition, not requiring any investment? Can you tell me if welcoming additional military personnel to Puisie would require the construction of new buildings? Can you also guarantee that asbestos is not present in the various buildings? Can you also provide an update on the number of housing units currently available for military personnel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u93	Mr Delannois, the district of Poitie does have the potential to welcome new activities and about 500 additional people. The Puisie site has spaces to build new buildings. Overall, the condition of the buildings is good even if it is true that some blocks will have to be renovated if they are given a new assignment. At one time, asbestos was used everywhere and also in Defence, in several neighbourhoods, but this in itself does not really pose a problem. Any asbestos in Defence buildings is regularly monitored and treated according to a plan in accordance with current legislation. Currently, work is under way to upgrade housing in Puisie to, among other things, increase its overall housing capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u94	This question is becoming increasingly clear even if you always say that you are not going to express yourself on the rationalization of barracks. I am, however, worried because you often talk about savings and I have already told you that. Over the last few years, public money has been invested in the barracks in Tournai for almost one and a half billion Belgian francs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u95	Before 2000 in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic605x.u96	No, it wasn't because I'm talking about Belgian francs that it happened before 2000. I am talking about the various investments you have made for a billion and a half Belgian francs, and I hear that you will eventually build new buildings. I do not think this is necessarily very rational. In any case, I hope that the different people around the government table will hear the same speech, because I'm a little tired of hearing that we're going to make savings, over and over again. At the moment, I do not necessarily have the impression that we have a strategic vision, but rather a community vision of the problem.
