ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u1	Colleagues, our work can last until 5 p.m. In order to deal with as many issues as possible, I ask everyone to respect the time allowed by the Rules of Procedure and not to repeat what others have said on the same subject. Question No 19982 by Mrs Van Camp is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u2	Madam President, Minister, the results of the 2000-2014 study on thyroid cancer around the IRE site in Fleurus confirm the results of the 2004-2008 study. There is an 8% prevalence of thyroid cancer higher than expected within a 20 km radius of IRE facilities in Fleurus. It is more than time to take action, even if only as a precautionary measure. What are you going to do to implement the necessary precautionary measures without waiting for the results of new studies? What standards are you going to change to guarantee the health of the inhabitants of the communes concerned? For the Mol site, within the first radius of the 5 km around the site, the prevalence is 30% higher than expected. How do you explain these two worrying situations, in Fleurus on the one hand, in Mol on the other? What are the profound, structural consequences? From a more technical point of view, can you assure me that thyroid disturbances that do not lead to cancer are also studied and quantified? What are the results of these studies for the Fleurus site?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u3	Madam President, Madam Minister, without repeating the introduction of the question asked by my colleague. We do have the intermediate results of a new study, from which I believe that a policy should be put in place to explain and then to remove this higher number of cancers around the two nuclear sites in Fleurus and Mol-Dessel. In this regard, I would like to know whether further studies will be carried out in order to identify a potential causal link between the observed cases of thyroid cancer and the presence of nuclear facilities. I would also like to know whether preventive and accompanying measures will be taken to reduce the number of cancers around these two nuclear sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u4	Madam Chair, thank you, Mr. Thiébaut and Mr. Nollet, for your questions. In 2012, the results of the epidemiological study around nuclear sites were presented to parliament and researchers analysed whether the incidence of new cases of thyroid cancer and childhood leukemia had increased among residents near Belgian nuclear sites. The study did not deduce a cause-effect relationship or draw conclusions at the individual level. At the time, the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health commissioned this study following the incident in Fleurus in 2008. Following the presentation of the results to the House, it was decided to conduct this study again when epidemiological data on cancer are available for a longer period of time and on a smaller geographical scale, i.e. the statistics sector, not the municipality. In the article recently published in the International Journal for Environmental Research and Public Health, researchers examined new cases of thyroid cancer in the vicinity of Belgian nuclear sites for the period 2000-2014 at the municipal level. It was mainly apparent from the article that there is a disparity between sites combining industrial and research activities such as Fleurus, Mol-Dessel on the one hand, and nuclear power plants such as Doel and Tihange on the other. The researchers noted risk assessment scores greater than 1 for Fleurus and Mol-Dessel. For Fleurus, the results are almost non-significant, which means that some factors could explain the difference as well as other environmental influences (e.g., misclassification of exposure rates or choice of treatment strategies, etc.).). There was no increase in the incidence of new cases of thyroid cancer near nuclear power plants. These results are consistent with those of the 2012 study. At that time, it had been decided that it was wise to continue to follow both the Fleurus and Mol-Dessel sites. The consortium ISP - Cancer Registry Foundation is working on the further updating of the epidemiological study in the vicinity of nuclear sites with data at the statistical sector level around Belgian nuclear sites. The results of thyroid cancer are expected by mid-2018 with data on cancer at the statistical sector level as well as for the period 2006 to 2014. As for infant leukemia, consideration should also be given to a number of potentially disruptive factors. It is analyzed whether it is feasible to include such factors on a small geographical scale while respecting privacy. The final results for infant leukaemia are expected by mid-2019. As Minister of Public Health, I have not commissioned any other epidemiological studies at the national level to analyze a possible report on nuclear sites and conditions other than those of the thyroid. Nor have I commissioned a study on the causal link between cancer and nuclear sites. In particular, the ongoing studies will provide an overview of epidemiological developments. I would like to point out that before the article was published in the above-mentioned journal, I immediately took the necessary steps to inform the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Employment and the Minister of Energy, the Environment and Sustainable Development. In addition, I have even taken the initiative vis-à-vis the Ministers of Public Health of the federated entities, as they have responsibility for prevention and awareness-raising. It is imperative that those who have the misfortune of being affected by thyroid cancer have direct access to adequate medical care. That is why I draw attention to the article in question, as well as to the available treatment guidelines. In the meantime, epidemiological monitoring of cancer incidence and prevalence continues so that we can make scientifically sound decisions, using correct data as regards the normative competence which is essentially provided by the AFCN, but also as regards safety, the exploitation of the activity and the issuance of environmental permits.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u5	Minister, your answer is inaudible to people living in the Fleurus region. In 2008, the incident was served. Since then, the only thing we've been telling them is that studies are being conducted. It's not you who throw them, it's IPPH; okay. But it's now 2017, it's been 10 years since they've been told that they don't have to worry and that studies are being conducted. In the meantime, each study confirms that there is a "surpresence" of thyroid cancer cases and that we are going to do more studies! This does not satisfy them. The same goes for Mol: we're at 30%. And now they're told that it's a figure on the commune and that we're going to divide it by statistical sector. The statistical sectors are clearly what they are; there are 10 000 of them in Belgium as a whole. And then you're going to have an average of 30% in Mol and 8% in Fleurus. We'll say there's a little more in some quarters and less elsewhere. So what? What will this change for the reality of these people and for the risk encountered? Nothing. On the other hand, action on your part, in coordination with the ministers you mentioned to reduce the emission capacity of the companies concerned, could help solve the problem. Lowering thresholds can also help. Beyond the prevalence of cancer, it would be appropriate to also test the use of thyroid hormones, perhaps before or on people who have almost had cancer. Do not limit yourself to making a record of cancer cases. Is that done? All this shows that the monitoring of this risk situation is in fact very passive, but it will only be realized later; mid-2018 or mid-2019 for children. I don't think that's what people expect from a health minister. In view of the worrying figures available in Fleurus, Mol-Dessel, with the 30%, I invite you to be more pro-active rather than just following the studies that come to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u6	Minister, I am also not reassured by your response. The question is quite simple: are there more thyroid cancers around the sites? If this is the case, it should first be clearly confirmed. And in this case, what are you doing as Minister of Health, in collaboration with your colleagues and especially the Minister of the Interior? It seems to me that we are entitled to expect a more precise answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u7	I agree: studies have been launched, intermediate results are available, but that is all we have at the moment. The results available are almost non-significant. It is not known what factors are involved, and this is a small number. You're talking about 30 percent. If you go from three to four, there's a 30% increase. But I immediately contacted the other ministers to see if it was necessary to take action. Discussions continue, but more meaningful results are needed. We also need to see if there are any other factors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u8	For you, the results are not significant at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u9	I said it. The researchers noted higher risk assessment scores for Mol and Fleurus. Yes, but the results are almost insignificant. This means that it cannot be concluded that they are really due to the location in the vicinity of Mol or Fleurus or that other factors have contributed to these results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u10	The minister says that this may be a variation of three or four cases and that this may not be significant. Let's look at the numbers! You read the study. There are 685 cases in Fleurus. It's not three or four. 685 cases! When you look at Mol's situation, you see that the prevalence is 30% in the first 5 kilometres, 15% in the 10 kilometres, 12% in the 15 kilometres and 4% in the 20 kilometres. You can see from these figures that concentric circles are emerging. I do not understand that it can be concluded that the information is insufficient, that further action is needed. These people have been waiting for ten years. Frankly, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u11	I will have to close the incident, even if it is clear from this exchange that more presence or action would be needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u12	Madam President, Minister, a mughelikopter is faster on the spot than a mosquito car when the intervention takes place more than 10 km away from the hospital. In Belgium there is a mugheli in service, stationed in Bruges. This occurs about 600 times a year in life-threatening diseases caused by illness or accidents. Every year 40 additional lives are saved, which an ordinary mosquito car could not have saved. Figures show that the argument that these few minutes of time savings would be unimportant does not make sense. Unlike the mosquito cars, the mughelis are apparently not federally subsidised. The non-profit organisation that provides this assistance, the Institute for Urgent Medical Assistance, depends on small and larger sponsors to pay the costs. As a result, the continued existence of this aid is now at risk. I don't know why it was decided in the past not to subsidise the mughelikopter. That is why I have the following questions. Are you considering letting the federal government contribute to this relief? Are you thinking of stationing mughelikopters in other regions as well? What amount are we talking about if this were to be funded by the federal government? Could you please give us a little more explanation as to exactly how the case is structured? Why is one thing and the other not subsidised by the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u13	Madam President, Minister, my question is quasi-identical. Emergency aid and transport of sick persons are of paramount importance to all levels of government. A lot of attention is rightly paid to ambulance transport by road. However, we cannot deny that helicopter aid is also very important. We must continue to strive to save as many people as possible. The part of the helicopter has not yet been sufficiently addressed. I have here a list of about forty West Flanders and some East Flemish municipalities that financially support the initiative, together with the provincial board of West Flanders. The federal government still doesn't provide support. I therefore have the following question for you. How do you see the future and development of helicopter help, so the mughelikopter, in our country? Will the federal government contribute to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u14	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, Mr Degroote, it is true that a helicopter in flight is faster than a vehicle by road. However, when we talk about the advantages and disadvantages of using a helicopter in urgent medical care, it is only fair to map the whole picture. A helicopter has a start-up time which means that it needs time to get from standstill on the platform to flight altitude. It also has a landing time; it takes time to identify a landing site and then to ensure that the place is free and safe for a landing. For example, a football field cannot be landed when football is being played at that time. In that case, the field must be cleared first or the helicopter must move to another place. Usually a helicopter also has a driving time, in particular the time it takes to get from the landing point to the intervention point. For example, a helicopter will not be able to land in the centre of Ostend, but it will be able to land on the beach. Then a vehicle will have to take the team to the intervention site. With regard to the pilot project in Bruges, I should like to say the following. I visited the AZ Sint-Jan, following the entry into service of the emergency service, which is located on the left of the hospital, and of the general practitioner's office on the right. Of course, I also saw the helicopter, which we also talked about. The federal government already intervenes in the pilot project, in that there is an annual federal grant of 62 000 euros for the B4 part of the hospital's budget financial resources. It is not, therefore, that we have contributed nothing so far. However, we did not deploy the two helicopters of our pilot project like our neighbouring countries. We put the helicopters in the first line of emergency medical aid and this only by day. They can't fly at night. For safety's sake, that's not possible. The experience and the number of hours of flight in the surrounding countries is much greater. Historically, they have also been using helicopter assistance for much longer. We note that all these countries, based on their experience, use helicopters mainly during the day in interhospital transport for patients with time-critical conditions. Only exceptionally do they organise interhospital transports at night. It is therefore possible, but for safety reasons only from an equipped helicopter platform to an equipped helicopter platform. I must tell you that in our country we do not have very well-equipped helicopter platforms. These helicopters are therefore used only in very exceptional situations as a means of emergency medical assistance. The use of the helicopter in Bruges is therefore slightly different from the use of the helicopters in the surrounding countries. You know we have a plan about the unplanned care. We have given the helicopters a precise place in it. They have a role to play in interhospital transport over longer distances from patients with a time-critical condition. However, they will not be a routine means of emergency medical assistance. They will be placed in urgent medical care in specific and exceptional situations. In 2018, I will start implementing the reform of urgent medical care. We have identified five priority axes. Firstly, the transparency of the invoice for urgent medical care and the tariff security for the patient. Secondly, the sustainability of the public finances of ambulance services. Thirdly, the reinforcement of medical dispatching. Fourthly, intelligence, policy support and enforcement. Fifth, integration of the PIT teams, the paramedical intervention teams, into the legal framework. As has already been said, the helicopters will be given a well-lined position. However, we are not going to use helicopters everywhere in urgent medical aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u15	That was clear and clear. Thank you very much for your reply, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u16	Madam Secretary, did you mention EUR 260 000 in your reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u17	EUR 62 000 for the B4 part of the hospital's budget financial resources. The helicopter's right next to the hospital. Everything is arranged through the BFM of the AZ Sint-Jan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u18	At great distances, the helicopter is vital. Its usefulness must not therefore be underestimated. Thank you for your intentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u19	Madam Minister, I am asking this question following an incident that came to the media a few weeks ago. It's about the computer-controlled knee prosthesis. As a result of that media storm, you announced that such prostheses would be repaid. If I understand correctly, the payment has been made so far only in the case of mechanical prostheses. I think it is a good thing to do this also for computer-controlled prostheses. That is certainly not an unnecessary luxury. After all, it appears that the risk of injuries is much greater with mechanical prostheses. This is certainly a good thing for the patient's quality of life. That's why I had a few questions for you. When will this arrangement enter into force? When will that refund be a fact? What will the criteria be to benefit from a refund? What amount is available for this purpose? Is it just about the reimbursement of knee replacements or are there any other prostheses of limbs that might be eligible for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u20	You can see what a television programme can do. We didn't wait for that. In 2016, a working group of the Agreement Committee was set up. That working group consists of orthopedists and insurance institutions. Patients' associations are also always involved. There is already a limited fee for the electronic knee. It's certainly not of the same size as the cost. I think the price of one knee is about 45,000 euros. The current remuneration is limited because there was insufficient budget in the drafting of the regulation to bring this reimbursement to a higher level. The discussions are therefore ongoing and patients' associations are present. The task of the working group shall include, inter alia, the identification of the target group, or criteria to be met by the patient in order to be able to be helped and to be revalidated with a microprocessor-controlled knee. The level of reimbursement is, of course, also one of the elements which form part of the discussions. It is also intended to provide for a correct refund. The budgetary framework will be determined by the target group and the amount of this reimbursement. At the moment, it's too soon. I've informed myself. I knew, of course, that the working party had already been set up. For some it takes too long. I therefore asked the working party to conclude the work as soon as possible. I also asked RIZIV to keep my policy cell informed of the developments in this dossier so that we can monitor everything closely. There was something very unfortunate in the paper. They made me look like I'm taking part in those working groups. I'd love to, but I can't because of time. Within our consultative bodies, there are a lot of these working groups. It also seemed like I would have said not to pay this back. It is precisely the intention to repay this. However, the target group should be delineated because certain people, e.g. those suffering from other injuries or underlying diseases, cannot be helped with such a knee. Besides, for most people, it's just a knee. However, in the case of that young woman, it was an amputation of both legs. This also made it much more difficult to maintain and restore its balance. I understand the emotions, but I just want to clarify that I am not in those working groups myself. Moreover, I would not make such a statement against someone without legs. I believe that money should be made available for this. That seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for the state of play. Of course, I had already understood that you did not wait for that TV programme because otherwise you would not have been able to react so quickly. I was alarmed by it because I had never considered it. I'm glad I know what the hell's going on. Thanks!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u22	Madam Secretary, I will no longer outline the full background to this dossier. We know that in the meantime the National Council for Hospital Services has issued an opinion on the adaptation of partial funding for small K in general hospitals. That opinion refers to your royal decree of June 2017 and the phased termination over a period of three years for small K, both day and night. The opinion reiterates the various principles, such as the importance of adapted funding, namely simpler and more transparent financing, and the importance of the new incentives, especially in the context of the Children and Young People Plan. The importance of psychiatric day care and the low threshold are also emphasised. It also includes the coordination of recognition and funding. The opinion calls for an equalisation of the funding standard for small K, day and night, for general and psychiatric hospitals. This means that the 13 full-time equivalents per 20 beds should be maintained. Therefore, it is requested to amend the Royal Decree of June 2017 to that effect by abolishing the relevant articles. The opinion also takes into account the budgetary impact of that decision. We can all read that in it. Madam Secretary, what will you do with that advice? Will you follow the recommendations of that opinion? Will you amend your royal decree to that effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u23	Minister, I have already asked you about this several months ago, and more recently in plenary when the Prime Minister made a statement on the state of the union. In the non-market sector and especially in the day hospitals affected by your royal decree on child psychiatry day centres, the sector had not had hard enough words to point fingers at your decisions. Indeed, some of them lost half of the funding for childcare and, therefore, half of the caregivers. I have received numerous letters from the hospitals concerned. For example, for a hospital that started a K-bed project with 20 children in hospital, the amendment introduced by your royal decree resulted in a reduced frame from 16 full-time equivalents to 8 full-time equivalents within two years. Suffice it to say that this completely questions the ability to provide quality work in this child-psychiatric day hospital, which carries out extremely important work with children and adolescents in great difficulty. In the face of the lifting of shields of parliamentarians of the majority and of the opposition, you have asked for a new opinion from the Federal Council of Hospital Institutions. My colleague has just outlined the outline of the opinion that has been delivered. When I interviewed the Prime Minister last week, I heard in his response an opening to reverse some of your decisions. You're drowning this under the name "uniformization". But what you're not saying is that for a series of hospitals, it's a major step backwards leading to the disruption of the continuity of these services. Minister, you have had the advice of the Federal Council for 15 days or three weeks. Will you correct the shooting in this royal decree so as not to break the beds in day hospital, at least for those who were strongly affected by this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u24	Madam Minister, my question was put at the time when the opinion had not yet been delivered. My question was whether you have already received the opinion, but it is now clear, because it has been in all the newspapers. I therefore do not need to repeat the recommendations made in the opinion. In any case, the first question has already been answered, because you have indeed received the advice. Will you follow the advice? You've declared that you're going to investigate. When can we hear your decision, because the water is on their lips?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u25	Madam Secretary, the long-awaited advice is here. In my view, it leaves little room for interpretation. It is clear that in your KB you should remove all articles relating to the phased phasing-out in the psychiatry of children. What are your findings after reading the advice? Will you withdraw or modify the Royal Decree within the meaning of the opinion issued?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u26	Madam President, Minister, many things have already been said, but, like my colleagues, I would like to go back to your royal order of 30 June setting the number of full-time equivalents for child psychiatry services. The text sets for K beds, a number of 16 full-time equivalents for residential beds and 8 for day centres. I had already had the opportunity, like my colleagues, to question you before the holidays on the subject because the sector, whose services are already working "on the rope", said that it had not been consulted and was alarmed at this decision deemed "untenable". Professionals, both in the north and south of the country, are concerned that the size of the workforce will be too small and that the very functioning of these services will not be properly demonstrated. In an initial opinion issued by the National Council of Hospitals, the latter initially recommended that what was at work should not be changed and, in the case of reform, to apply "a number of points higher than the simple application of staff standards because the care provided is more sustained". A few days ago, the National Council of Hospital Institutions issued a new opinion calling again not to save money in child psychiatry. The opinion specifically calls for "the cancellation of all articles concerning the phased dismantling of child psychiatry". For 2017, you explained that you would first move to 13 full-time equivalents and then to 8 full-time equivalents for 2019. There were also 10 full-time equivalents for night reception. The report specifically refers to 13 day and night workers. Madam Minister, my question is the same as those of my colleagues, are you finally going - I am sure, but I expect you to confirm this - to follow this new opinion and amend the royal order made last June?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I answer your questions, I would like to make one more comment. You're asking if I've read it. Yeah, I read it. I even discussed it with my associates. However, I hear that some of the authors have not read it. The whole royal decree must not be destroyed. The first step, up to 13 full-time equivalents, may remain. Mrs Muylle understood it correctly, Mrs Jiroflée did not understand. You keep talking about savings. Mr Frédéric, you did not understand either, because you say that all articles should be deleted. Mrs. Fonck understands. This shows how difficult it is to have a discussion when everyone has a different interpretation of the opinion that has been given. From the beginning, the framing was wrong. It was said to be a saving. No, the number of millions going to that sealed envelope remains the same. There has not been a single euro from the budget earmarked for those children's psychiatry beds. What did I do? I lifted the moratorium so that no new beds could be added. Flanders has so far not as many beds as it could have and can make 141 more. Brussels is already over it and Wallonia can add about twenty more. Then we looked at how all these beds are financed. What we saw in the Federal Hospital Services Council's opinion is that it was indeed quite a blur. The first opinion of the Federal Council, with which I could not do much, said that it was a blur, but that it was allowed to remain a blur because it is at 5, 6 places in hospital funding and there are also 3, 4 social agreements in between, so there are so many different rates in our country. Their theorem was it is now, leave it that way. I do not think that can be left that way. The care of children, from the West Coast to Luxembourg, must be of the same quality. I think that everyone, especially in this committee, believes that there should be equality for proper remuneration for the staffing standard. It's just those staff standards that go from 8 to 21. How can it be explained that this standard varies so much for the same work on the same paediatric beds during the day? The opinion does indeed say that the financing of children's psychiatric beds and places in our country is an opaque bluff. The Council has therefore delivered a detailed opinion and has divided it into three stages. The first part of the opinion aims to stop the phased reduction of the staff standard, as provided for in the financing decision. This royal decree makes it 13 this year. I have said that I would like to reduce it further to the norm. So there is a link between the standard and the funding. However, before I do so for the next two years, I will ask for an opinion on this. The opinion is now indeed a uniform rate of 13. We put that on 13 because it's 13 in psychiatric hospitals. After all, this is only about general hospitals, a nuance that not everyone has made so far. The second part of the opinion concerns the development of a new programming funding and standardising of all psychiatric bed letters in both general and psychiatric hospitals, based on the idea of the care programme. The third part of the opinion concerns a reconciliation between full and partial hospitalisation services within general and psychiatric hospitals. With regard to the latter two parts, the Council says that it actually needs more time to deliver a detailed opinion. The Council announced that that opinion will be available by June 2018. As regards the first phase, the Council sets out two main principles. First, the Commission considers that a staffing standard of 13 for 20 seats is correct. That's what it is now. By the June Royal Decree it is now 13. This standard has been in place since the June funding order was adapted and it is therefore sufficient not to implement the 2019 adaptation to meet this part of the notice. We will therefore withdraw the piece which involves further phasing-out, but the KB remains in the process of phasing-out to 13. This requires only a small technical adaptation, which will be carried out for the calculation of the budget as of 1 July 2018, which seems acceptable to me. I will ask that the necessary be done. In addition, the Council considers that the budget for hospital funding should be increased in the light of the announcement of the creation of 141 additional K beds in Flanders. In this context, the general principle of compensation, for this closed envelope, for the possible financial difference, both positive and negative, which may remain in the event of conversion of one of the bed indices to another bed index is called into question. What I have already explained in this committee is thus confirmed: the conversion of unwarranted beds without funding into pedopsychiatric beds or squares – for K beds, these are squares – will allow, in absolute figures, to inject more money into the child-psychiatry services. If we go through a conversion from unapproved beds to approved beds, which is applied all the time, every week I get files on them, then we go from an unfinanced bed to a funded place, so it is still very attractive for the hospital. However, the sector does not want this investment in child psychiatry to be charged to the overall hospital financing budget. It calls for an injection of up to EUR 11.7 million, an amount which, in certain circumstances, can be up to EUR 19.1 million. With that part of the opinion, I find it more difficult, because this is a strangely proposed way of working. In addition to the finding that such an injection is not foreseen in the 2018 budget, you will not find it, as the opinion came after the budget was drawn up, it is a serious precedent. Any change from one type of bed to another is accompanied by changes in the budget. That's what we'd do here. It is true that these shifts are usually small and spread over time. However, the shifts will be more substantial if one succeeds in creating nearly 141 beds in Flanders. I hope so, because they're needed. This must also be seen in the right perspective. The initiative covers 105 general hospitals and within a B2 budget, which amounts to some 3.2 billion. So it seems difficult to justify not following the rules of change in this case, but giving an injection immediately. It is also a question of the Federal Council for Hospital Services, and I do not think it is unusual for it to ask for more money. If you turn irresponsible beds into responsible beds, you will receive funding for beds that did not have one after the change. At the moment, this funding is zero, but then it is granted as follows: 13 full-time equivalents for 20 beds. The lifting of the moratorium is still a good thing, in my opinion, especially because it can create many places, especially in Flanders, but also in Wallonia. That will also mean that more money will flow to children's psychiatry. If more beds are released there, more money will also flow into the envelope. On the other hand, I would like to point out that hospital funding consists of a closed envelope, the same amount of which is allocated among them according to specific rules. The decision on its importance rests with the government as a whole. I have only taken the initiative of harmonising the distribution arrangements with the existing accreditation standards, which apply in particular to all other bed indices. Nothing more logical! In addition, I found that hospitals did not all receive the same amount for K beds. Thus, general hospitals receive more than psychiatric hospitals. And sometimes there was even a difference between general hospitals. For me, that was not acceptable. It is also important that funding is released to go through standardisation. That is important, because normally funding follows the norm. It is said here that funding must be higher than the norm. As you know, there is a division of powers, the normalization is with the Länder and the funding is with us. If one lets it go, it may also be released on other matters. My initiative a few months ago brought no cents to the health care budget. Mrs Jiroflée, I note that you are always talking about savings. However, the budget remains as it was, and on the contrary to what you say, even more money will flow in the event of change. However, you continue to call that savings; perhaps you should; that remains a mystery to me. Madam President, I hope that the misunderstandings will be resolved. I invite everyone to read that report thoroughly, not because it's so interesting, but because it's interesting, so everyone knows what it's about. An opening has just been made to increase the number of places in child psychiatry, supported by correct, uniform, transparent and readable funding, which was not the case before in our country. If we go to 13 full-time equivalents, there will of course be winners and losers. The winners, the places where one goes from 8 or 10 to 13 FTE, of course one does not hear them, while those who have managed to get to 18 to 20 FTE by a favourable wind, now shout loudly, which I do understand. However, I believe that the care for every K-bed should be of the same quality. That is why the funding must be the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u28	Madam Secretary, it is indeed an incredibly complex fact. This afternoon, I have recorded on two pages the evolution of the legal basis, together with the amended financing standards from 1964 to the present day. I even had to browse back several times to see what it was like now. So it's incredibly complex. I am pleased to hear you say that you are prepared to equalise the 13 full-time equivalents. I also feel that this is supported by the sector. You say that you also want to make a technical adjustment to the Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u29	Yeah, to do the next phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u30	To be able to start with 13 full-time equivalents. That's a good thing. I would also like to make it clear that we support the moratorium decision. There has also been room for us to support this in the spirit of mental health care in the context of change. The moratorium and funding will be based on responsible beds and not on approved beds. The 141 beds and the starting point of responsible beds have a financial impact. That is also in the opinion of the Council of State. You say you're in favour of unrecognized beds. I understand your logic, because then we are actually funding new beds, and that cannot be the intention of the moratorium decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u31	Madam Minister, I would like to point out that the Federal Council had already given an opinion before you took your royal order. He was very clear. Indeed, he had indicated that the funding of existing beds should be maintained and that the funding of new initiatives should be adapted. Minister, it seems to me that since the beginning you have not been very clear on this issue, which is certainly a bit specific and complicated. However, I would like to point out that the beds are funded according to the time when they are put into service. Staff management standards had been increased for those that had been opened a long time ago – possibly on the basis of the B4 or B9 of the BMF (Budget of Funds Funded). The context consisted of social agreements relating to an increase in the number of staff available to hospitals. However, several other beds were opened afterwards, but without the addition of staff. Therefore, your royal decree poses a huge problem as it imposes reductions of up to 50% of the teams. It's catastrophic! I am trying to sum up clearly the development of this issue. Those who have not received additional funding and staff in the first few years must therefore have sufficient resources to carry out their task of providing quality guidance to the young people they are responsible for. You've brought answers. For my part, I am waiting to read your text. In any case, I remind you once again that you cannot defend a purely transversal vision. In this case, we are obliged to take into account the various aspects of funding, including those hospitals that have received additional funding through certain components of the BMF. Without attention, many services will no longer be able to carry out their missions due to too much reduction. Madam President, I'll finish with a word. Minister, some departments have seen your decisions as a real challenge to the quality of their work. You have shown a lack of projection, even though the Federal Council has noted that certain particularities of the file will greatly affect several services. In this regard, I can only appeal to you to correct this. It's a minimum. If these services do not continue their high-quality work, tomorrow we will have much higher costs because these children and adolescents who are not cared for in these services will be hospitalized elsewhere for much longer periods – you can be sure. They will also present major problems of socialisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u32	Madam Minister, there are indeed a number of very technical and complex aspects to the dossier. I remember that you are following part of the opinion, while you are having a much more difficult time with another part. Of course quality care must be the same everywhere, but in globo the psychiatry of children is of course underfunded. There are waiting lists and it is often very painful in the sector. I agree that in the case of change, only the budgets will shift. That's correct. Again, however, the sector deserves better. Finally, we are talking about children and we are faced with very distressing situations. You can say that it is not in your budget, but I believe that the sector deserves an extra effort. You have also spoken about a follow-up recommendation, which would come about mid 2018, because it takes more time to do so. I understand that the opinion will be on the development of a new programming, possibly with proposals for a different funding. It's a long way off in the middle of 2018. Should this advice put forward new financing models, would you be prepared to apply them, provided that, of course, the premise is that the same quality care should be provided everywhere, and that change merely means a shift in the budget? Surely you will agree with me that the sector deserves more?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u33	First of all, Madam Minister, let it be clear here that I did not say that the whole of the RB needs to be adapted. That's what you make of it. I was only talking about the articles relating to phase-out. The first phase will be retained. Secondly, Madam Minister, you say that everyone only gives their own views and opinions. But isn't that a political thing? I suppose we all have the right to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u34	I would assume that a technical opinion with figures is read in the same way by everyone. Thirteen is 13. Everyone's asking for it to be set to 13. It's all over the place now at 13.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u35	That's right. Thirteen is 13. However, I do not think that you can simply charge that everyone has their own vision. Yeah, so what? Of course it is. First of all, what is important here is your wish that the quality throughout the country is the same. I can see that. In theory, I agree with that. However, I do not agree with the idea of reducing quality in a number of places. That's what's happening right now. Secondly, you do not want funding to exceed the norm. I also understand that theorem of yours. It may, however, be necessary, Madam Minister, to ensure the correct quality. I think you should take the necessary measures and, if necessary, impose additional money on top of the budgets. Finally, I would like to endorse Mrs Fonck's final conclusion. We cannot ignore the fact that demand for this kind of concern has increased enormously in recent years. If we do not pay attention to this growing need for care, we may end up in the long term with much higher costs and, above all, much greater human drama events. I continue to insist that this is looked at and that you take into account the quality that is now being delivered in a number of places.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u36	Minister, I appreciate part of your answer; that is the technical part. I didn't like your mood. I know you don't like to be reminded that you carry out your government's orders on a daily basis to cut health and social security budgets. I could send you a list of measures taken concerning the quality of care in our country and its accessibility for all our citizens. When the explanation to the question does not suit you, you tell us that we do not understand. I am not a doctor, but I think the National Council of Hospitals has read in detail and fully understood the content of the text. What may suit me is that you seem ready to align yourself or, in any case, to amend the royal decree to ensure that there is this systematic standard of supervision of thirteen to twenty. I agree with what has been said by my colleagues earlier. I share your objective regarding the quality of care that must be the same everywhere, in all regions and subregions of our country, in rural areas and in particular in the field of child psychiatry. But tomorrow, because of budgetary obsession or lack of political will to invest sufficiently, we should not be able to close the institutions or reduce the framework of these institutions, which will no longer be able to continue to receive complicated cases. All diseases are complicated. As far as child psychiatry is concerned, it is an even more acute sensitivity, and that is quite normal. Everyone hopes that they will never be directly confronted with this type of family situation and that they will have to resort to this type of institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u37	Mr. Frédéric, it is true that psychiatry is a sensitive area. I think you were much less sensitive in the past. I'm the one who injected an additional 55 million into psychiatry, mental health a year. It was necessary. Needs existed. In the envelope, more funding was available for psychiatry. That's why I took this royal decree. Sensitivity varies according to position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u38	Madam President, the last word is for Parliament. I'm an extremely constructive boy and I'm starting to get a little tired of hearing almost daily: "I'm doing what others haven't done before." If we want to start making a comparison, I'll have fun doing it! I do not question your sensitivity to this issue at all. I don't question the fact that you want to act, but I think a little childish for a lady your age, with your responsibilities, to have this kind of reflex every time. I am not asking you what was done a year, five years or ten years ago. In fact, if I remember correctly, minister, under previous governments, it seems to me that you were around the government table and you had meetings from time to time with your colleagues! I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u39	Colleagues, these are important subjects, but we are limited by time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u40	Madam Minister, given the many questions and the lack of time, I will not easily repeat everything. We asked questions about this matter last summer. I want to ask a follow-up question now. A working group was then set up. What work and conclusions has this working group led to?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u41	Madam Chair, Minister, we have already discussed the clause 81 agreements several times. I would like to take stock of the situation, in particular following the publication of the article in the magazine Médor, based on important investigative work. This article talks about an increase in the budget for the reimbursement of innovative medicines to $2.1 billion in 2018. These medicines are crucial for the patients concerned. Even if certain points can be negotiated, even if we do not have to know the end of the fine tuning of each contract, it would nevertheless make sense to have some transparency. Minister, could you tell us how many clause 81 agreements are currently in force? Have all these agreements been the subject of a favourable opinion by the Repayment Commission? If not, how many agreements have been concluded despite an unfavorable opinion of the Reimbursement Commission? How do you justify failing to comply with the Commission's negative opinion? Could you tell us how many conventions have been concluded in recent years? How do you explain this evolution? What is the budget for the implementation of these conventions? I would like to obtain an annual budget for the last three and the next three years based on the projections you may have. Have you set a maximum amount for the budget for these conventions? If so, what is it? If not, why? Do you not consider that this system of Article 81 conventions must be framed so that it does not harm our health system as a whole? What is the status of the scanning horizon project within the BeNeLuxA collaboration? What are the short- and medium-term forecasts for new therapies? Moreover, do you not think that it is absolutely necessary today to relaunch a strong and ambitious European approach rather than limit itself to a few neighbouring countries, with calls for tenders at European level or at least with as many countries as possible to allow for larger orders for these innovative medicines and thus to negotiate lower prices? I know you've had contact with the Netherlands. That said, the Netherlands and Belgium remain far too small on a European scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u42	Minister, I will add a few things. I opted for an approach mode that incorporates different elements over time. The pact signed in April 2015 with pharmaceutical companies was expected to result in savings for patients and a reduction in the budget for medicines charged to INAMI. Transparency and independent and public research were the drivers. As of June 2016 and on several occasions, legislative amendments have strengthened direct negotiations and confidential elements outside the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products. My colleague Anne Dedry and I have opposed these legislative changes. Today, we are, apparently – but I will come back to another question – faced with a limitation or even an abolition of the budget for Farmaka, an agency indispensable for providing information and analysing the prices of medicines placed on the market. The health care budget is subject to savings. A growth limitation is foreseen; the budget on the part of medicines should be limited to 0.5%. It should be noted, however, that in recent years this budget has increased significantly. The newspaper Médor estimates expenditure on this procedure, known as "Article 81", at 2.8 billion, an increase of 600% between 2015 and 2018, while the standard of growth imposed on the health care budget in general was generally limited. You contradicted these figures, but in your arguments, you give the amounts for the period 2011 to 2015, that is $1.28 billion. However, you did not provide any budget items for the period 2015 to 2018. This response therefore does not satisfy and does not allow for a proper understanding of the elements. Finally, if we compare prices in Belgium to those in other countries, we cannot say that we have the cheapest prices. This procedure therefore does not guarantee lower prices for innovative medicines in a systematic manner. In order to understand and position myself, I would have wanted to know the figures for the drug budget from 2011 to 2016 and the 2017-2018 estimates, by identifying the drugs that are related to section 81. It would be interesting to have the figures, by separating expenditure, compensation and overpayments from firms. Indeed, all this constitutes a melting pot where it is particularly difficult to get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that the Article 81 conventions have been the subject of questions. The knowledge centre report 288 AS was presented extensively by the staff of the knowledge centre on 18 July 2017 and discussed with the members of the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting and the Working Group on Article 81 agreements. As a direct result of the publication of the knowledge centre report and the discussion with the CTG and Working Group, consultations are also planned in the coming weeks to carry out an in-depth evaluation of the place of the Article 81 agreements within the management of the pharmaceutical budget. This will be both a substantive and functional evaluation with a focus on a more effective and targeted use of the agreements for these medicinal products for which the existing therapeutic and/or budgetary uncertainties justify the conclusion of an agreement. As regards the specific question regarding the publication of the CTG evaluation reports, it is true that due to workload, no CTG evaluation reports are currently actively published on the RIZIV website. However, any person wishing to have access to one of these reports may receive a copy of the report at simple request, in the framework of the public administration. As regards the submission of additional evidence after an initial period of reimbursement under an Article 81 agreement, I can inform you that these study results are not confidential. It is only the annex to an Article 81 agreement containing the budgetary compensation mechanism, which is and will remain confidential. If the submission of the additional evidence is part of the Article 81 agreement, the company is contractually bound to provide this evidence. An analysis by an independent body can support an improvement in the current system. With the exception of that confidential annex, the agreements may be fully evaluated. The confidentiality of the annex must be respected by law and is crucial to the maintenance of Article 81 agreements. They allow, despite existing uncertainties, the innovative medicines to be made available to Belgian patients. The alternative is either a full refund of the medicine based on the Facial Price. Mrs. Gerkens, you're talking about the prix. These are facial prices, because you don't know the other prices that are in the annex. The other alternative is not to repay it, thus denying our patients those crucial medicines. I now give you an overview of the conventions. As of September 25, 2017, one or more conventions are in progress for 81 individual molecules. Of these, after a proposal by CRM, 46 were concluded in the form of an Article 81a agreement, representing 57%. For 27%, there were 22 after no reasoned CRM proposal, and for 16%, 13 after negative CRM advice. Agreements concluded after the Repayment Board's negative proposal date back to the time when the CRM did not have the opportunity to propose a negotiation for an agreement. In all cases where an agreement was reached after a negative notice, the Minister considered it appropriate for the working group to seek opportunities for a temporary refund. The number of agreements in progress for which a negotiation procedure has been initiated in the following years is as follows: six in 2013; 13 in 2014; 28 in 2015; 29 in 2016; and in 2017, we are five. Over the years, we have seen an increase but not an explosion in the numbers. For this year, we are even seeing a decrease. "Article 81" conventions are used to manage uncertainties. Different elements are involved. First, the major therapeutic uncertainty that represents often immature data to develop early solutions to EMA, based on the results of the Phase 2 studies. Second, major budgetary uncertainties, i.e. a high cost of treatment per patient that has a high budgetary impact for a often large target population. Finally, more and more Class 2 medicinal products in the reference specialty are being reimbursed temporarily on the basis of a convention. Given the therapeutic uncertainty and budgetary uncertainty, the CRM almost systematically proposes the use of the "Article 81" and subsequent conventions. There is no separate budget for Article 81 medicinal products. For the evolution of the pharmaceutical budget, including Article 81 medicinal products, we refer to the audit reports and the MORSE report, published by the RIZIV. It is important to know that concluding the agreements is one of the tools within the pharmaceutical policy to better control the budget. There is also no link between total expenditure and total reimbursements by companies with a medicinal product agreement, since each agreement is determined individually on the basis of the therapeutic and budgetary uncertainties. As regards the scanning horizon and the BeNeLuxA initiative, a meeting was organised on 27 June 2017 to inform all members of the European Union of the project, including the description of expectations and the criteria for analysis of the scanning horizon. I was present at this meeting with the "pharma" team of my firm and members of my administration. I presented an introduction. Nineteen ministers attended the meeting, as well as delegations from other countries. This meeting was, in my opinion, very important. A person from the Federal Centre of Expertise (KCE) presented an analysis of the draft article 81. By 1 November 2017, Member States' comments will be requested, as well as their possible commitment to participate in the implementation of this project. The question of whether participation in the BeNeLuxA initiative is possible is regularly raised by countries. Prior to the publication of the terms of reference on www.beneluxa.org, we note an increased interest in the extension of the joint repayment and negotiation initiative. National procedures must be coordinated with each other. The main objective of the BeNeLuxA initiative is to accelerate the availability of innovative medicines at an affordable cost and, therefore, the objective is much broader than just buying medicines at the lowest price.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and for taking stock of the number of conventions, reasons, etc. There is no specific budget but a budget which corresponds to all these "Article 81" conventions. As I understand it, the total budgets which correspond to all these "Article 81" conventions are reflected in the INAMI report? If that is the case, so much the better. I would ask you to transfer this famous report to the committee. It is not published today, but I imagine that it can be made available through the transparency of documents. On the other hand, if the total budgets are not included, could you send us a written answer, because even if there is no specific budget, there is a total budget that must correspond to all these "Article 81" conventions? It's mathematical. It's not possible otherwise. I would like to dwell on one point at European level, Madam Minister. It is true that an annex remains confidential and contains price negotiations. Many innovative medicines are waiting, but there are also plenty of innovative medicines that will come and are at stake: the cancer vaccine, everything about DNA repair, etc. Therefore, for patients, it is absolutely necessary to move forward at European level with a large number of countries and we must not limit ourselves to certain aspects. This aspect of price negotiation must no longer be a state by state, let alone a country as small as Belgium. We must be able to move forward on a negotiation, including on the confidential aspects, at European level. If we do not, tomorrow we will find it difficult to offer patients a refund of the necessary innovative medicines. Finally, Madam Minister, we must advocate for sufficient transparency. I find it unfortunate that you now realize that an assessment of the application of section 81 (content, budget, etc.) is required.). Moreover, I find it abnormal that this famous report is not available on the site and that, moreover, the budgetary aspects still seem to be lacking. I am not asking you to reveal secret information about budgets per drug, but to give me the total budgets. Minister, we need more transparency in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u46	Madam Minister, you say that there is no specific budget and therefore you cannot give figures on the budget for these "Article 81" agreements. This is unacceptable. In addition, these agreements are normally accompanied by a wide range of reimbursement procedures in case of overruns, etc. These budgets are important. We can know all the budgets in all the other areas of health care, but here you are talking about an envelope and not precise figures. In terms of evaluation, there is obviously a need to improve transparency and the mechanism. We have been waiting for this for a long time. Budgets have actually been spent on this item of medicines and we therefore have the right to know them. These figures must be published and explained within the drug envelope. Although I can't prove it, I even think it's that envelope that blows up the growth of the drug budget, compared to the growth permitted in other health care sectors. We will return to this during the discussions on the budget and your policy note for next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u47	Madam Minister, I have a question about a situation that we have all heard before. Let me give you the example of a teacher who helps with the insulin injections at school of a type 1 diabetic student. That is happening in a very good way today. However, management often points out that this is a medical operation, which is not in line with the Royal Decree 78. You have always said that we must be able to do this in a very safe way. I'll follow you in that. You said that you would take this with the revision of the Royal Decree or the law of 2015. I was therefore pleasantly surprised this summer when I heard from the media that you are working on an arrangement around the competent helpers, so that they could still carry out certain technical aspects of an intervention, although their profession is not a health profession. I would have liked to know how far you stand with this exercise today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u48	Madam Chair, Minister, my question will be similar to that of my colleague. In September, you announced that you intend to legally recognize the work of qualified caregivers through legislation under development. According to Mediahuis newspapers, this new regulation would also address the problem of close caregivers performing medical procedures. We are therefore well placed within the same framework. The law on close assistance accompanying a person in a state of great dependence was published in the Belgian Moniteur in June 2014. You make promises. Since last year, however, it has become clear that the negotiations have stalled. Minister, could you tell us more about the new regulation? What is the status of the drafting of the law? Will it also target close caregivers who perform medical acts? Have you had any contact with the ASBL Helpers? Finally, can you tell us clearly whether you have definitively abandoned the idea of creating a real status for close caregivers, with social rights and financial aid, during the current legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u49	It is indeed correct that, in the context of the reform of the Royal Decree 78 on the exercise of health care professions, I am working to adapt the concept of unlawful practice within the current law on the exercise of health care professions, the WUG Act. This adaptation was explained to the Health Commission in March 2017. I depart from the principle that healthcare is provided only by healthcare professionals, but indeed provide for a number of exceptions, including the competent helper. A competent helper is a person from around the patient. That is why this has been published in the newspaper. Examples were given of a child care provider in a nursery and a school teacher who, after clearly defined delegation from a healthcare professional and within a defined quality framework, perform one or more health care services in a care provider. However, it may as well be a counselor of a youth camp or someone who does volunteer work with the elderly in a retirement home. The teacher's example was, of course, picked up immediately. This exception is a solution to the problem mentioned and aims to ensure both the health and quality of life of the care provider and the quality of care provided. I would like to stress that this is always a voluntary choice of the person in the vicinity of the patient who wants to take on this task. In other words, no one can be forced to do so. For example, one cannot tell someone who works with a diabetic that he is supposed to be able to cope with a pump for diabetes and with a diabetes measurement and to know what a hypo and a hyper is, and so on. There must always be voluntaryness. In the womb of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, this issue is dealt with by the Cabinet Working Party on Health Care Occupations, because of course it also needs to be discussed in consultation with the Länder. Translating the concepts into the legislation is foreseen for 2018. Mr Massin, as far as close caregivers are concerned, there has been an exception to illegal exercise since 2014. A physician or nursing practitioner may currently delegate certain acts to them under certain conditions. As part of the adaptation of the SARAS Act, I had no contact with the close caregivers with the ASBL "Near Caregivers". Nor did this association express any opinion in the series of public consultations on the reform of the Royal Decree. The text was presented and the possibility of reacting for months was given to everyone on a website. We have received a lot of suggestions and remarks but none of the ASBL "Near Aiders". In the summer agreement, it was decided by the government to take measures in favour of close caregivers. In accordance with the Courard Act of 12 May 2014, the general recognition of caregivers will be developed and will facilitate the identification of this group. The objective is to arrive at a uniform definition of close caregiver at the federal level. Having a single definition and providing for authorisation will bring more simplification, transparency and clarity to close caregivers. The Royal Decree regulating the accreditation of close caregivers is being drawn up within the relevant strategic units. Cases of heavy care may then be isolated from this group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for the positive answer. We therefore hope that this will soon be transposed into legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u51	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. You say that legislation is being drafted, in strategic cells, for the definition of close caregivers. As part of my question, can you confirm that there will be a real status for close caregivers in the future, with social rights and financial support?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u52	As I said, we'll recognize them. This means giving them a status. There is a variety of close caregivers. There lies the difficulty. We must see what rights will be linked to the status.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u53	Madam Chair, Minister, on July 4, 2017, the Federal Council for the Art of Nurses (FCAI) issued two opinions on the future nursing role model, one on authorization to practise and the other on education and training. To sum up, these are opinions that are available on the FPS Public Health website. I should like to point out that a lot of work has been done for almost two years in the ad hoc working group set up within the Federal Council of Nurses, both with members of the Federal Council, but also with experts in the nursing profession, different levels of training and places of practice. There was even an expanded consultation of the nursing profession in November 2016. These different opinions being on the site, I will not take them back here. So my questions are as follows. What follow-up will you give to these opinions of the Federal Council regarding the model of nursing functions of the future? How do you and the firm intend to coordinate with the field on these issues? How do you position yourself against the position of the Federal Council on the need to develop a subsidiarity relationship between professionals in personal services in the framework of the "care" and practitioners of nursing? Could you finally shed some light on the thinking that has taken place and on future developments regarding the delegation of tasks between health professionals?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u54	Madam Minister, we have already had the opportunity to discuss on several occasions these changes in qualifications, skills and training required by nurses following European directives. In Belgium, it is difficult to have a clear evolution and measures because we have these well-known "patent" or "HBO 5" nurse training courses, that many institutions use these nurses and nurses, and believe that, in budgetary terms, they cannot do otherwise if they are forced to take nurses who have completed the 4-year course. On the other hand, there are the nursing assistants, against whom many opinions and expressions from nursing actors say that they need to improve their training and give them a title and position as a nursing assistant or assistant in order to better meet the demands of care. Finally, the changes in the formative curriculum of nurses, with the extension of studies, ensure that the first year no longer contains internships, such as those which were present in the training courses in a shorter time. However, it was originally intended that those who had completed a first year could become caregivers. Today, we see that students have passed this first year of nursing, who have completed only 15 days of observation training and who do not meet the expected internship requirements for health workers. Madam Minister, in the light of the differences over the curriculum, recognition and function of a patented nurse and caregiver, between you and the Communities, will you, so that the federated entities can meet the requirements, take action on this first year of studies that allows you to perform the function of a caregiver without having completed the necessary internship? It would be wise to provide answers before the reform of Royal Decree No. 78. The CFAI has put forward proposals on the profession and functions for nursing in the future, defining tasks, skills, expectations, hierarchy and a way of functioning among the different nursing providers. I would like to know how you intend to integrate them into the measures you intend to take in the context of these necessary reforms. According to my information, the Flemish Community has received a negative response from the European Commission concerning its training in vocational education known as HBO5. Is this information correct and what are the consequences of this opinion? Shouldn't this training be abandoned under the title of nurse?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u55	Mrs Gerkens, changing the course of studies and introducing internships in the first year is not my responsibility, because it concerns education. I don't want to tell my colleagues in federated entities what to do. It's a sensitive subject and it's up to them to decide. That is why we are in the Interministerial Conference. That must be respected. I have indeed received the opinion of the Federal Council of the Art of Infirmation (CFAI) concerning the model of function for nurses of the future. This opinion has many similarities with my vision of the future of nursing. Nevertheless, I informed the Board that I did not intend to create a new professional title as a care assistant, and that I would like to continue with the current professional qualifications in nursing, namely the nursing assistant and the nurse. Nursing responsibilities must be unambiguous for both patients and other health care professionals. The introduction of a new profession of assistant does not seem to me wise. Following this opinion, I asked the CFAI to clarify certain points. I received two clear signals from the health sector that the current regulation of the nursing profession should be reviewed. The current list of actions that can be taken by caregivers is very limited and should be reviewed, taking into account better support from the nurse. For this reason, I have asked the CFAI, in conjunction with the Technical Committee on Nursing, to consider updating the criteria for recognition, as well as the competences and acts of health-care workers. I have also asked the CFAI to comment on nursing specializations; the many current nursing specializations will need to be reconsidered. Instead, I would focus on generic areas of specialization. I asked the CFAI to define criteria for recognition and competence by area of specialization for the nurse specializing in the future model. I asked him for the same job for advanced practice nurses. This profile of university education is interesting. These are master's degrees; this can really bring added value to the health care system. With regard to consultation, I have given the actors on the ground who are all represented in the CFAI the opportunity to explain themselves and to express themselves on these issues. I confirm the position of the CFAI on the need to develop a subsidiarity relationship between aid professionals and nursing practitioners. We are currently working on this in an inter-cabinets working group. I have also recently received an opinion from the Federal Council on the registration of nursing assistants following the success of a first year in nursing. The Council draws my attention to the first year of nursing training, which no longer organizes practical internships at the patient's bedside in the first year. The CFAI is asking me to require a minimum number of hours of internship at the patient's bedside including care for the elderly during the first year of nursing studies in order to be able to be registered. But, in my view, it is absolutely essential to have the necessary practical experience with patients before being recognized as a caregiver. That is why I intend to adapt the criteria for the authorisation of caregiving aid as soon as possible. As far as patented nurses are concerned, I can only repeat that the European Commissioner responsible for the European directive on nurses responsible for general care has informed me that any training of nurses responsible for general care must meet the minimum training requirements set out in the directive but that a level of training is not required. This training can therefore be organised in higher vocational education, at the bachelor's level and at the master's level. I believe that we must have the best nurses possible, which Europe demands. It is therefore up to the Minister of the Communities responsible for education to ensure that nurse training meets the minimum requirements laid down in the Directive and transposed into Belgian legislation. I have already advised you to question the relevant ministers on this matter. Once again, I wrote a letter to the Ministers responsible for education informing them that their request was a matter for the Commission, i.e. training at each level fully satisfying the minimum levels of requirements described in the directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u56	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I must admit that I expected a very clear commitment in terms of consultation with the sector in general but in particular the CFAI. They have indeed delivered their opinions. We will now have to work on the basis of these opinions in order to make progress in the texts. I can only stress the need to work in full consultation with the actors concerned, on the basis of texts and not just discussions. This will avoid different versions depending on the interlocutors and clarity for all on the content of these texts. Besides, I'm surprised! For some time now, we've been talking about nursing assistants, but you've been silent on this. You're talking about caregivers, nurses, the issue in terms of differentiated training. For those who may have the title of nurse, I believe that it is absolutely necessary to move forward on more important training. Quality requirements must be met, including probationary hours. Today, graduates could very well move to the care assistant. It is true that it is a competence which falls within the competence of the Communities on the training aspect as such. On the other hand, you talked about the CIN. The issue is the coordination between studies and the title obtained in relation to the function they will perform. That is where this is happening today, and that is where you are fully involved. We'll have a nurse. Will there be an assistant carer and next to a assistant carer? Or does the caregiver become the care assistant? Or are those who today have less advanced training becoming care assistants tomorrow? These issues are crucial. We have to answer that. You refer to the Communities, but they are not alone. You're a part of the decision. I would therefore like to stress that, in addition to the consultation with the sector, you should work closely with the Communities to finalize this dossier quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u57	Minister, I am a little disturbed by your answer. The accreditation criteria fall within your competence. Caregivers must comply with certain requirements. If the recognition of their status does not include that of a particular number of patient placements, then you must take action. Of course, you cannot change the curriculum on your own, but you can indicate the conditions for accreditation and, if necessary, specify that the current training no longer allows you to comply with it and thus close access to the profession for some people. I do not know whether to change the accreditation criteria by reducing the number of internships planned, or whether to inform teachers that their students may no longer be recognized as a caregiver. Then I hear you don't want to add a category in nursing. We are going to find ourselves in a dead end again. Your answer surprises me. You announce that you will require skills, regardless of the training course. It is a speech that I can accept if the criteria are well explained. I note that you specifically target patented nurses, but not psychotherapists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u58	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u59	Yes! In the latter case, you wanted the training to take place within the academic framework. For caregivers, you require certain skills, but leaving the panel open. This may be possible in other areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u60	I refuse...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u61	It is a comparison, quite simply, and I find it legitimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u62	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u63	I find it interesting to note that we can act differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u64	There are all the nurse trainings that...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u65	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u66	But don't start to compare with psychotherapists, who are also very varied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u67	It's just the way I compare it. And I agree with you: the situation is complex. But what's annoying is that it's complex and it's been going on for so long. Apparently, the training provided by the Flemish Community is undermined by European requirements. So you'll have to intervene. The CFAI has given you answers and advice on the various training courses,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u68	(...) they asked to adapt HBO5's curriculum. It is dealt with by the Flemish Minister of Education. And for Francophones, it was first Mrs. Milquet and now it's Mrs. Schyns.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u69	That's right. But at the same time, acknowledge that you are obliged to reach agreements between all ministers,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u70	That's what we do. I told you we have intercabinets working groups. What does that mean? I'm not doing this with the Minister of Economy!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u71	I know that. But how long have we been doing it? And where are we today? I have the impression that we are still at the same point as almost a year ago in the recognition, in the titles, in the acts that can be laid down by each other. And when it is not clear on your side, the Ministers of Education do not know how to adapt and vice versa. So, we're still in a dead end. Finally, the CFAI has provided advice on specializations for several months. And I expect you to take a position on these opinions and not just tell us that you asked for opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u72	Minister, last April you said that you were working with the KCE on an annual evidence-based practice plan. However, the ASBL Farmaka, which is implementing projects to inform general practitioners and healthcare staff in a scientific and independent way about the rational use of medicines, has announced that it will have to proceed with the collective dismissal of all its employees because of the savings decided by the government on the independent information of medicines (from 3.5 million to 2 million euros). Minister, could you clarify the multi-year evidence-based practice plan? What about the "structure offering an overview of the actions carried out by the various actors on the ground"? What about the savings decided this summer in relation to your commitment last April to "maintain the means at the same level and organise better cooperation while continuing to preserve autonomy"? Who will be in charge of the missions carried out so far by the ASBL Farmaka unless we announce that you are reversing and that the ASBL Farmaka can continue with adequate funding? How do you intend to provide more objective information to the prescribers, in accordance with the government agreement, which I have consulted once again, unless you maintain the ASL Farmaka and, above all, adequate funding for the ASL. It's black and white.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u73	Minister, the ASBL Farmaka has recently indicated that it must proceed with the collective dismissal of all its employees. A collective lay-off which, according to the ASBL, would be a direct consequence of the savings you make on independent drug information. If it is recalled, Farmaka has so far been subsidized by the AFMPS to support the rational use of drugs by general practitioners and health professionals through, among other things, independent medical visitors and the provision of an elderly care form for health professionals. The planned savings within the AFMPS will apparently end its activity in 2018. As our country faces significant over-consumption of drugs, specifically antibiotics, antacids and antidepressants, and as polymedication among older people becomes increasingly problematic, the new savings you seem to want to impose are therefore completely incomprehensible; all the more incomprehensible as your government agreement, as Mrs Fonck and I have reread, provided for a more effective prescription "from a price point of view than from a volume point of view". Your agreement also stated that "more objective information will be provided to prescribers and incentives will be associated with an effective change in prescribing behaviour in the sense of cheaper prescriptions. The government will take additional measures to reduce the over-consumption of objectively determined drugs in the residential sector for the elderly." Minister, do you confirm that you want to reduce funding for independent drug information? It would increase from 3.5 million to 2 million euros. Do you confirm these figures? Do you confirm that you want to stop completely subsidizing the ASL Farmaka? It appears that some of the savings would be directed to the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information. If so, how high and why? Various studies have shown the importance of the role of independent medical visitors in prescribing physicians. Why, therefore, not continue to support this ASBL? Why not respect your government agreement? As a result, general practitioners and front-line healthcare staff could now rely solely on information provided by the pharmaceutical industry's sales representatives. Is that your goal? Or are you considering the implementation of projects similar to those carried out so far by Farmaka? Finally, since 2015, you have referred to the establishment of a multi-year plan to support independent evidence-based practice in Belgium. What is the status of this plan? Have all relevant organisations, including Farmaka, been consulted in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u74	Madam Secretary, I have no further questions. Most of the questions I had were also asked by Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u75	Minister, the contextualization of my question is obviously the same as that of my colleagues. Will you abandon the desire to have independent information and the role of independent research and evaluation of medicines placed on the market? If Farmaka is no longer recognized or subsidized, who will fulfil the necessary role of providing information on the rational use of drugs to general practitioners and caregivers in a scientific and independent manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u76	Colleagues, the different questions are very similar. It gives me the feeling that they come from the same source. But these are relevant questions. First of all, Mr Frédéric, it must be said that the amount planned for evidence-based practice is 3.5 million. There is 3.5 million left, but otherwise distributed among the actors on the ground. It should be noted that for evidence-based practice, the scientific basis for health care is crucial. This means that when caring for a patient, the care provider must always take into account scientific evidence, his own experience as a provider, but also the patient's values and preferences. In addition, the context also plays an important role. Many quality initiatives have been organized at the federal level to stimulate evidence-based practice in the health care sector. That is why we asked the KCE to study it and a plan. It must be said that these initiatives were very fragmented and there was no coordination between them, hence the need to create a evidence-based practice plan to optimize the whole process and improve the quality and effectiveness of health care. I asked the KCE to look at how to achieve such a plan. In July 2017, the Knowledge Centre delivered the first part of the study, in particular the governance plan. Based on this study, it has been determined how evidencebased practice will be managed and funded at federal level in the future. A brief explanation of the plan. The plan is primarily aimed at primary care. Later this may be extended to the second line. The operationalisation of the evidence-based plan is based on the evidence-based plan cycle. This includes six phases: prioritisation, development, validation, decimination, implementation and evaluation. Some of these phases, such as prioritisation and implementation, are not present in the evidence-based practice story today. For each of these phases, the plan identifies a fixed evidence-based practice partner. There, preference has been given to existing organisations with the necessary expertise. For certain phases, no fixed partner has yet been identified, such as for the implementation phase. This will also happen when the second part of the KCE study is completed, which is foreseen for 2018. A multi-annual framework will be drawn up for the permanent evidence-based practice partners, with multiannual funding from the RIZIV. After the permanent partners for evidence-based practices, there is also the possibility to identify evidence-based practice project partners per phase. Depending on the priorities, ad hoc projects may also be launched, on which the various evidence-based practice project partners can sign up. These projects will then sooner be financed from Health. The permanent evidence-based practice partners and project partners will work closely together. The strategic direction of the Evidence-Based Practice Plan is entrusted to the Evidence-Based Practice Steering Group. It is composed of representatives of the Public Health FPS, INAMI, AFMPS, KCE and my strategic cell. Tactical and operational pilotage will be carried out by the Network Administrative Organizations (NAO). It is an independent organization without any conflict of interest with other partners in the network. The creation of this Network Administrative Organizations is planned for 2019. In the meantime, the KCE will assume this task. The Evidence-Based Practice Advisory Committee, composed of different stakeholders, is the advisory body of the Steering Group (bestursgroep) and the NAO. This committee will be installed in 2018. The target group of the plan is mainly care providers, as they must have quick access to the use of Evidence-Based Practice. Patients and their entourage are, of course, also a major stakeholder. They receive evidence-based care for which their preferences are taken into account. In addition, they are also involved in setting priorities and developing directives. In addition to the permanent and project partner cycle, the evidence-based practice plan provides a separate pillar for independent drug information. Independent drug information is important, but it is difficult to integrate it into the evidence-based practice cycle. The plan now brings together all activities in the framework of the independent pharmaceutical information and identifies one permanent partner to be funded through the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products. The independent doctor visits, as currently organised by the vzw Farmaka and financed by us at 1.2 million per year, will indeed be stopped in 2018. Scientific research shows that medical visits have a significant effect on the feeling of practice, but that the effect is usually limited. This is confirmed in an unpublished study on the medical visits of Farmaka, which the University of Antwerp carried out. Six months after the information on one group of medicinal products, 3 percent of doctors have positive effects on prescribing behaviour. 3 % may be significant, but if only one drug group is involved, the effect is very limited. There, too, there is a strong question of cost-effectiveness. Farmaka reaches 40% of the general practitioners and therefore only affects a change in the prescribing behaviour of 3 % of doctors in one particular group after 6 months. When I look at this thoroughly, I can say that this is a low effect for EUR 1.2 million. It is also an old-fashioned way to inform the doctors. We can do it more efficiently. It is intended that the doctor visits are exchanged by a more efficient approach from the doctors. The publications of the BCFI, both printed and digital, will be used for this purpose and will therefore be searchable. In the second part of the knowledge centre study, the implementation techniques will be examined in more detail. The results of this study and the expertise Farmaka built up on communication with doctors will be taken into account in the fifth development of the pillar of independent pharmaceutical information. Moreover, for some time now, the pharmaceutical industry has been spending less and less on visits to doctors. It focuses mainly on other means of communication. It would therefore be premature to say that the pharmaceutical industry is already prepared to compensate for the lack of independent visits to doctors. That's not true at all. The exact amounts of funding for the activities of the Medicines pillar still need to be agreed. We are currently analysing with the relevant NSAs (Farmaka and BCFI) how to organize activities within the independent drug information pillar. However, it is wrong to claim that this is an economy. The overall amount remains unchanged for all activities in Evidence-Based Practice (EBP), but the same means will be used more effectively in the deployment of the entire EBP plan. AFMPS is studying with Farmaka and BCFI the possibility of assigning staff, who have some expertise, to another task in the same field. A significant amount is foreseen to ensure this transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for the completeness of your answer. I conclude that you are informing us about the implementation of the KCE reflection on evidence-based practice with a series of leads. You tell us that there are no savings, since the amounts remain the same, that these amounts – 3.5 million – will be redistributed differently. You tell us that the will is not automatically to ask pharmaceutical companies to carry out this information from the generalists who were previously independent; it might indeed seem special. And if I understand correctly, you also seem to say that Farmaka, as it stands, costs money for fairly small results, but there is, besides that, expertise within the staff, which could be transferred to other structures in the future. The institution would not be maintained but its staff, in whole or in part, could be recovered. It's an elegant formula. I do not know the details of the operation, but a priori, I find that there is a constructive vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u78	Madam Secretary, I agree with Mr Frédéric. I am also shocked by the percentages you mentioned, especially in the context of visits and their effects. You know that Domus Medica also talks about an effect of 4.8 % in prescribing behaviour. That is in line with what will now be confirmed. 3 % or 5 %, of course it doesn't last much. What hits me strongly is that only 40% of doctors are visited. There is therefore still a very large area of winning in this area. When I am asked about this, I always answer that independence is very important in terms of rational use of medicinal products. I hope that with the budget of 1.2 million better techniques we will look digitally, as you say, to motivate as many doctors as possible, and clearly more than 40%, to do so and to inform ourselves about independent rational drug use.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u79	Madam Minister, as far as I am concerned, I would just like to stress the need to maintain an independent approach in terms of information and contact with patients. It is probably possible to improve and review all structures, but with this concern of independence and direct contact with doctors. It is true that the techniques and means of searching for information are changing. Pharmaceutical companies are also evolving. However, there are still many delegates who meet with doctors. Many doctors also have access to contacts and information other than from company delegates. I invite you to take into account the need for an organ capable of analysing medicines, providing independent information and consulting as many doctors as possible with the most effective methods.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u80	Madam Minister, early September appeared in the media that a collective of scientists would have asked for a postponement for the planned roll-out of the 5G network. By the way, I understand that there would be a 6G network in the meantime. This collective, consisting of 180 scientists and doctors from 35 countries, has asked the European Commission to impose a moratorium on the planned roll-out. In the letter addressed to the European Commission, the collective warns of increased exposure to radiation, which would lead, inter alia, to cancer and infertility. The collective relies on old and recent studies. These studies would all predict adverse effects on human health when wireless products are tested under conditions similar to actual exposure. The scientists say they are concerned that increased exposure to 5G radiation will result in tragic, irreparable damage. The peculiarity and contradiction of the story is that the popular scientific monthly magazine Eos examined both the 180 scientists and the studies on which they appeal and that it showed that the 180 scientists are not all the great experts in the matter. For Belgium, a retired biologist and a retired insect specialist, among others, signed. The sources used by scientists are also not always reliable. For example, they refer to studies that have been reproducible, as well as to a recent US study on experimental animals that have not yet been completed and which have not yet passed peer review. So the question arises: what is it now? All this brings me to the following questions. Firstly, what is your position on the effects of radiation on public health? Secondly, how do you assess the views of this collective of scientists? Thirdly, how do you assess the position of the World Health Organisation? Fourthly, what role should the government play in the possible nuance of these messages which are already being widely picked up?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u81	Mr Janssens, for the time being we are sticking to the roll-out of the planned 5G network. I am in favour of an evidence-based policy in which the precautionary principle is also given its proper place. I support the recommendations of the High Health Council and the World Health Organisation. A few years ago, a debate took place on the roll-out of the 4G mobile telephony network and on the 3G network. The High Health Council had issued a number of opinions on this subject, and I have already answered a question from Mrs Caprasse in committee. I brought you that answer. Each new generation of mobile telephony exceeds its previous efficiency with regard to the use of radio spectrum. This is a positive fact, but it is also associated with higher radio frequencies and sometimes with stronger transmitters. In this context, it is legitimate to ask questions about a possible risk to public health. However, the precautionary principle is respected and generally accepted scientific principles aimed at preventing thermal effects also apply to the 5G networks. In our country, these principles are implemented in a very strict way. I refer to the standards for cell towers that are among the most stringent in Europe. However, since the standardisation of cell towers is part of the powers of the Regions, including in terms of health effects, I believe that a question can rightly be asked there too. However, the marketing of products such as mobile phones is one of the federal powers. In this respect, in recent years, my administration has undertaken a number of actions such as the publication of information media and the conduct of communication campaigns. In addition, a regulation on the mandatory indication of radiation values in the case of the sale of mobile phones and the prohibition of child mobile phones was introduced. I am also convinced that by doing so we will fully implement the precautionary principle. We therefore follow the precautionary principle and take the WHO recommendations along with those of the Health Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic752x.u82	Thank you very much for your answer. I ask this question partly on the basis of a question I received from the spokesperson of one of our largest operators. He told me that Belgium is one of the safest systems and meets all European standards. So far, there's no problem. I think it is very good that we are talking about the precautionary principle. The spokesperson also told me that we should not actually ask such questions to the Minister responsible, because this gives charlatans more attention than they really deserve.
