ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u1	Deputy Prime Minister, the management of the railway police believes, I quote, that "it is no longer possible to carry out the basic tasks." In fact, a report of 31 January this year would have pointed to a shortage of personnel in the stations of the capital as well as in the STIB metro network, currently supervised by 231 police officers, whereas the organic framework theoretically foresees 290. I quote the document as published in the media: "Following the massive departures of staff, due to the problem of bilingualism and the lack of supervision of inspectors, it is no longer possible to fulfil our basic tasks, namely to ensure the safety of travellers and commuters". The terrorist acts that our country has experienced have obviously led to a rethinking of the security arrangements, in particular for the protection of airport areas. This emergency has obviously had an impact on the mobilization of human resources, particularly in the Brussels region. However, it is now necessary to find pragmatic solutions to the expressed needs. Deputy Prime Minister, I have no doubt about your efforts to strengthen the presence of police forces in the public space but, like you, I am also sensitive to the appeals of the many actors on the ground. How do you look at the January report? Do you share the conclusions of the management of the railway police regarding the situation in the Brussels Region? What answers can be given to the representatives of the security forces at the present time? Are human resources reinforcements planned and, if so, by what date?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u2	The report presented by the Directorate of Railways Police highlights several challenges for the future, various current issues, but also and above all, it presents some short- and medium-term recommendations and solutions for the Brussels Railway Police. Before I get to the heart of the matter, it seems to me important to recall the overall context and the daily efforts made by the railway police, in the context of the security of the railway network, among other things the Brussels metro network, in the basement and on the railways. The safety of the Brussels metro network is one of the priorities of the Federal Police Railway Police. In the context of the terrorist threat, security efforts have been reinforced by the support of the military and by the regular engagement of the intervention force, the Brussels ICK. With regard to security, operational arrangements in the field are subject to ongoing evaluation. The guidelines are adapted on a regular basis in the light of the threat assessment carried out by OCAM, the guidelines of the Crisis Centre, news, including events in the vicinity of certain stations, and the ad hoc needs expressed by partners on the basis of their findings on the ground. The Railway Police (SPC) is located in ten railway stations, in accordance with the Ministerial Circular of 15 April 2002 on the responsibility of administrative authorities and the division of labour between police services in the field of railway safety, the Declaration of Intent of 9 April 2012 entitled "Strengthening of safety in public transport in Brussels". As part of the optimization, the SPC, as an entity responsible for railway safety, was and is being analyzed to refine and improve its operation. This is why an exercise is currently being conducted to establish a global mapping of its operations. Output data were therefore requested in order to objectify the situation. Next, we will examine how the tasks of this specialized policy can be integrated into a more efficient business model. In this context, no lead is currently preferred and, a fortiori, no decision has yet been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u4	Questions Nos 16896 and 16898 by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u5	The authors of the first three questions cannot join us. Mr Calomme has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u6	Deputy Prime Minister, the press has recently reported that 10 police areas have been selected to participate in a Taser Equipment Pilot Project, with these electric pistols temporarily paralyzing their target. Despite the enthusiasm expressed by many law enforcement officials, a different bell sound was emitted at the union level. The SLFP police union recently filed a strike notice to protest against the project. For the latter, it would seem, I quote, "that there is no legal framework for the use of taser. The police will have an illegal weapon, and any person targeted by a taser will be able to lodge a complaint if he suffers harm." On the other hand, it would appear that the Integrated Police Armaments Commission has still not delivered an opinion on this weapon. This could therefore pose certain safety problems and, according to the SLFP official: "on these issues, it is better to move forward on concrete terrain than on sand". While I welcome, of course, the efforts to ensure adequate and modern equipment for the security forces, I am also sensitive to the considerations expressed by the officials' representatives. In this case, I would like to hear from you, both on this pilot project and on the message from this police union. Can you provide us with the status of implementation, as well as an assessment of the use of taser by police officers? What is the schedule for this project? How will the results obtained in the field of operations be analysed? With regard to the considerations raised by the president of the SLFP police union, what answers can you provide in terms of administrative, legal and security guarantees? Have you had the opportunity to meet with the representatives of that union and, if so, what was the content of your discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u7	With regard to the pilot project, 35 police areas applied to test the weapon. In a first phase, 15 zones will participate. The most important criterion for selecting areas was the availability of a task force. The modalities of this pilot project still need to be defined. There is no question of putting these weapons into service immediately. We are only at the beginning of the project. A first test stage will last 6 months, after which a first evaluation will be conducted. Each use of taser will be reported and evaluated. My representative had the opportunity to speak to the President of the SLFP on Monday. The item will be discussed at the negotiating committee at the end of this week. The CSC also asked me a few questions. I've already reassured them. We all share the same concern: the test must take place under legally correct and properly measured circumstances, which will be the case. What happened? The police had been asked if they were interested in this test. One of the areas informed the press. The unions complained that they had not been warned. We wish to integrate them into the negotiating committee and take the necessary royal orders. Communication from one of these areas to the press was somewhat premature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u8	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for all these answers that make it clear that the problem was due to hasty communication. It was important to re-establish the facts here and to show that we are only at the beginning of the process, that the terms and conditions must be defined and that you will still have contact with the unions at the end of the week to establish the terms and to collect their concerns. I have noted a 6-month test phase and an assessment of the use of these new weapons. Of course, we will follow the development and implementation of the project. Communication is important. Misinterpretation can sometimes lead to misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament 16904 by Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u10	Mr President, Minister, following the Fukushima nuclear disaster, there has been increased attention to nuclear safety in Europe and elsewhere in the world. We know that Germany has decided to speed up the closure of its nuclear power stations. We, on the other hand, have decided to keep the old, deprecated and unreliable nuclear power stations open for ten years. At the end of last year Greenpeace carried out a measurement campaign in the radiologically contaminated area around Fukushima. In her report, entitled "No return to normal', Greenpeace draws some lessons, also for Belgium. The main conclusion of that text for our country is that the new nuclear emergency plan is still not drawing sufficient lessons from the Fukushima disaster. The report states that the government limits the emergency planning area for evacuation in the new emergency plan to just ten kilometres, while the reality in Fukushima illustrates that the evacuation area is far too limited. Greenpeace therefore calls on the government to drastically expand the emergency evacuation planning zone. Minister, what lessons do you draw from Greenpeace's report? Do you intend to adapt the new emergency plan to the reality of Fukushima, following that report? Could you possibly point that out?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, you say that it has been proven that our nuclear power stations would be unsafe, but I leave that sloganic language on your behalf.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u12	I said "unreliable."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u13	If I were convinced of the insecurity or untrustworthyness, the nuclear power stations would be closed by now. The opposite is true. With regard to the Greenpeace report, to which you refer, I can inform you that it will be explained to my services by Greenpeace at the invitation of my cabinet this month. Apart from its content, I can already assure you that I am fully aware of the very serious and far-reaching consequences of the Fukushima nuclear accident. Who wouldn't be? The whole international community was and is aware of this, which has translated effectively into the European nuclear stress tests. Through these stress tests, the prevention policy, consisting of strictly imposed facilities, both in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection, was carefully scaled up. This naturally took account of the conclusions of the Fukushima accident, including in Belgium, including the Belgian nuclear power plants, whose safety is the subject of inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and now also cross-checks with experts from neighbouring countries. If, despite all these efforts aimed at preventing serious accidents or at least minimising their impact, an emergency would occur, the nuclear emergency plan should be put into effect. That plan is currently being updated. The draft was openly delivered to numerous bodies: governors, mayors, federal and regional authorities, the European Commission, the High Health Council, Greenpeace and the members of the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee. This plan considered many elements, including the conclusions of exercises and real events including national and international opinions and guidelines. That plan contains a substantial part of the innovations explained by the Crisis Centre within the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee. They aim to better structure and harmonise emergency preparedness and management and adapt it to today's needs. Harmonisation of the reporting and notification obligations of operators, the division of the emergency into three phases - the emergency phase, the transition phase and the post-care phase - and the introduction of the concept of integrated crisis management are just a few examples of this. It is a plan which pays due attention to the harmonisation of international cooperation by adapting the accident notification class for nuclear installations to that of the IAEA, cooperation with neighbouring countries on the basis of consultations between homologous authorities, the introduction of the host nation support concept and the dimensioning of the preparation zones for the adoption of protection measures. This dimensioning complies with the principles developed for this purpose within the International Atomic Energy Agency and within the HERCA-WENRA Working Group, consisting of the nuclear supervisors of all European countries. With regard to zoning and fully in line with the common approach developed within the International Working Group HERCA-WENRA, the plan foresees that measures should be specifically prepared within emergency planning areas............................................................................................... 20 km............................................................................... This dimensioning of course takes account of the scaled-up prevention policy in relation to power plants, but it is considered to be very serious accidents. I'll give you an illustration. The scenarios that require protection actions outside the emergency planning zones of 20 kilometres for the sheltering and ingestion of iodine tablets and 10 kilometres for evacuation should be able to be taken in relation to scenario dynamometers with 100 % cracked fuel casing, 100 % meltdown and at the same time a failure of the insulation of the reactor building, i.e. the protective shell or containment. For these scenarios the extension zones were determined. Finally, if, in the event of a real emergency, the extremely extreme would become a reality and measures would be imposed outside the pre-accession areas, those are the emergency planning areas and the extension areas more specifically for evacuation, the crisis actors concerned will respond ad hocly and on the basis of their needs, taking into account the specific arrangements within the preparation zones and the general Belgian emergency planning and crisis management operatives. This general Belgian operative provision provides, inter alia, that each Belgian province and each Belgian municipality must have a general emergency and intervention plan to meet all types of emergency situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For the report, I would like to repeat that I did not say "unsafe', I said "unreliable'. Besides, I'm not the only one who says that. You also know that in the countries around us, a number of ministers, mayors and citizens continue to point out that they have no confidence in our nuclear power stations. We have the honour to have the oldest nuclear power plant in Europe. The other day, we were able to celebrate that birthday. This, however, is quite aside.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u15	For the report, too, Mr President. We must say factual facts: the Borssele power station is older than our oldest power station.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u16	How much older, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u17	A few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u18	It'll be about the same. I would rest assured that this is a mistake in my information, but at least they are considerably old. Once again, the neighbouring countries have no confidence in our nuclear power stations. When I say 'unreliable': they sometimes fall out, Minister, you cannot deny that. I wonder if you can convince Greenpeace of your emergency planning. I'm sure I'll ask some more questions about that after you meet Greenpeace.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u19	Questions Nos 16913 and 16914 by Mrs Ben Hamou have been postponed. Questions Nos 16946 and 16957 by Mr Demon were also postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 16953 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u20	Mr. Chair, Minister, one may wonder how it is that a government that attaches so much importance to security, or even to security, is able to co-align all federal police personnel against it. And I can say that concerns are also expressed within the local police force. Several officials of the federal police alternately announce their departure. I can list some reasons. By mercilessly slashing staff, operating costs and investments, leaving exsanguous essential services for police operation (such as information and communication centres), allowing for protracted problematic situations (I am thinking of the case of the police laboratories on which I have already called you), treating with disdain the surface technicians and the workers of the federal police, perhaps working on the regionalization and privatization of entire sections of the public service of the police, listening more attentively to the demands for profit of large guarding companies, you have created the conditions of a general ras-le-bol. All the representative organisations consider that "too much is too much". They filed a notice of strike at the common front on March 16th at midnight. Minister, that is my picture of the situation. I'm not asking you to share it, but I want to ask you a few questions. What change of course do you intend to initiate? Will you meet the trade union organisations that ask for a negotiation with you? What are your positions on the budget? Will you plan to continue the dark cuts or an ambitious commitment plan and a refinancing plan? Finally, more fundamentally, I will address something else, moving a little away from my written question. You'll tell me if you're in a position to answer me. I could settle for an answer in the meantime. What is your response to the unanimous arrest of the police, specifically the federal police, but also the local police? Are we looking for the end of the federal police? I'll explain. We had a model inherited from police reform. We could see that the federal police were shrinking. We are told of a circular in preparation that would increase the federal mortgage charge to local police. Are we not in the process of preparing for police reform backwards, i.e. the disappearance of the federal police or its forced weighting, and the postponement of charges to local police? It would be, Mr. Minister, a form of regionalization that does not say his name.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u21	Mr Demeyer, what stories! First, I'll meet with the unions and their presidents on Friday. We will have a first exchange of views. I'll listen to their demands. Then a formal consultation council will follow next week. We'll set the date with them on Friday. That is the point of view. I do not accept the way you present things, nor the allusions you make. The budget injection for the federal police, through the interdepartmental provision IDP terro and radicalisation, is certainly selective – we set our priorities – and oriented exclusively to the services fighting these phenomena. However, it was and remains substantial. There is absolutely no question of the "dismantlement" of the federal police – on the contrary, I would say – nor of regionalisation. This is not part of our conceptions. As you know, a Community standstill is in place. And we respect it 100%. I've already had an opportunity to tell you what amounts are at stake. Two weeks ago, the Council of Ministers approved a large-scale file on iPolice, which is crucial for the future of the two-tiered integrated police – i.e., both the local and federal police. It is a financial recovery in terms of personnel, operations and investment that was necessary and that reflects my conviction that a strong and effective federal police force is a sine qua non for the proper functioning of the police model in our country. As far as recruitment is concerned, do the account. At the end of the legislature, these are 1,600 plus 1,400 plus 1,400 plus 1,400 for the years 2016 to 2019. The pace will depend on the capacity of the ten schools, which also carry out advanced training. It is certainly a constraint that we have to deal with. I heard unionists say, "Jambon doesn't keep his word, because he only recruited 1,450 agents in 2016." That's true and that's not true. We have actually hired 1,600 agents, but 150 high-quality people are still on notice at their former employer. I will conclude by addressing the allegations of privatization and destruction. For decades, everyone has agreed on the need for a debate on the key tasks of the police. This government finally triggered it through twenty construction sites. The aim is not to stay there, but to draw conclusions and take appropriate action. Within this framework, certain tasks may be, and will be, entrusted to other partners. Some see it as an exorbitant privatization, or even a desire to dismantle the federal police. They are majestically mistaken. My approach has only one goal: to enable the federal police and local police areas to make the best use of the resources available to them, within the budgetary framework defined by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to return to the second part of my last question, which was not set out in the question put in writing. Are you preparing a circular to change the mortgaged capacity in local police areas? I can write to you for that purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u23	You're talking about the HyCap system, aren't you? This is the responsibility of the concertation committee. I asked the concertation committee to make a proposal on the HyCap system, which we saw in 2016, that it had reached its limits. The proposal is almost made. We have already discussed this in the consultation committee. This is not yet a formal decision, but the idea is to return the HyCap system to its original purpose, i.e. a system of solidarity between local police areas. In some cases, solidarity with the federal police can be considered, for large demonstrations, not anything else. So not as we did in 2016, out of necessity, as a result of the crises we had to deal with. We want to return to the original goal: a system of solidarity between local police areas, and much less between the federal and local. We also thought of a malus bonus system. But it's going to be a bonus system. Areas that make more effort than necessary will be valued. These are the broad lines, but the decisions are in preparation. The circular isn't yet. Decisions within the concertation committee are scheduled for the next meeting where they will be decided. This is a consultation between the local police and the federal police, which has returned to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u24	Minister, following the extension of the life of the Doel 1 and 2 reactors, an IAEA SALTO mission was organised last February. IAEA experts have audited the LTO of the two reactors, as implemented by Engie Electrabel. The IAEA communiqué states that good practices have been noted and that recommendations and suggestions have been sent to Engie Electrabel to strengthen its management of the Doel 1 and 2 OTL. Minister, can you summarize the positive and negative lessons of the IAEA SALTO mission and its follow-up?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u25	Mr Minister, my colleague has just reminded you that, in the context of the SALTO mission in Doel 1 and 2, the IAEA team has set out some ways of improving the operation of the two reactors. Among the recommendations: firstly, the operator must ensure that the ageing of all systems, structures and components is monitored during the LTO period; secondly, the operator must ensure the consistency and completeness of the data relating to components and structures under the LTO; thirdly, the operator must complete the revision and updating of the programmes for managing the ageing of architectural structures. Minister, could you explain these suggestions for improvement put forward by the IAEA? What actions will the AFCN take to ensure the implementation of these avenues for improvement? Has Engie Electrabel already drawn up an action plan to respond to these remarks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u26	The main findings of the SALTO mission are the good practices, improvements and suggestions and areas for improvement listed in the communication published by AFCN on its website on Thursday, 23 February 2017. The other conclusions relate more to details that will only be developed in the final version of the report. The AFCN will publish this final report on its website as soon as it is available. We are waiting for it by the end of May, but that remains to be confirmed. The best practices are as follows: the operation demonstrates integrated risk management at different levels for the LTO; the operator has a complete view of the LTO project and knows what needs to be analysed; the operator has taken and continues to take steps to guide the turnover of the staff so as not to lose expertise in the event of the departure of staff. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) considers the first good practice (integrated risk management at different levels for LTO) to be a practice that it has not yet observed elsewhere in the world and whose quality goes well beyond the international standards promulgated by IAEA. Areas for improvement include: the operator must ensure that the ageing of the entire system (structure and components) is monitored during the LTO period; the operator must ensure consistency and completeness of data on components and structures under the LTO; the operator must complete the revision and updating of the programmes for managing the ageing of architectural structures. Engie Electrabel must now implement the necessary measures to respond to IAEA recommendations and suggestions. A follow-up mission is currently scheduled for March 2019. On that occasion, an IAEA team of experts will again visit the Doel power plant to assess these measures. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FACN) is closely monitoring the implementation of these measures, in view of its mission of protecting the population and the environment from the dangers of ionizing radiation. As the mission was completed just two weeks ago and the final report is not yet complete, the Electrabel action plan specifically addressed to these recommendations has not yet been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u27	Thank you, Minister. I think that this item should be placed on the agenda of the Committee on Nuclear Safety, for the deadline announced at the end of May.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Indeed, we will discuss this again at the end of May, after having been able to read the full report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u29	Mr. Chair, Minister, AFCN is subject every 10 years to an international general audit (peer review), the next one being scheduled for 2017. Can you tell us more about the content, the methods, the agenda and, if so, what already emerges from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u30	AFCN often undergoes international reviews. Since your question does not specify exactly which audit you are talking about, I will briefly present four major audits. This also indicates that the AFCN does not wait ten years to develop. 1. The IAEA Integrated Regulatory Review Service. During this type of mission, an international team of experts analyses the operation, structure and regulatory framework of the nuclear regulator in all its areas of activity. It assesses the extent to which national procedures and regulations are consistent with international standards and guidelines, as defined in IAEA standards of safety. The last IRRS mission took place in December 2013. The final report of this IRRS mission is available on the Agency's website. The IAEA team of experts had identified good practices and some points of attention. The next meeting is a follow-up mission to be held from 27 November to 6 December this year to assess the Agency's progress. As early as 2014, the Agency incorporated these points of attention into its 3-year operational plan (2014-2016) and implemented regular monitoring of its operational plan. The Agency is actively preparing to receive the team of experts. 2. The International Physical Protection Advisory Service (IPPAS), also of the IAEA. The purpose of an IPPAS mission is to help Member States strengthen their physical protection regime, i.e. all measures to protect radioactive material, as well as nuclear installations and transport from sabotage, theft or any other malicious act. In practice, the task of the team of foreign experts is to analyse the extent to which the host country's nuclear safety regulations and practices meet international standards. As with IRRS missions, AFCN had committed to requesting an IPPAS mission approximately every 10 years with follow-up missions in the meantime. The last IPPAS mission took place in November and December 2014. The IAEA team of experts had identified good practices and some points of attention. A follow-up mission reviews the implementation of IPPAS recommendations and advice on the physical protection of a facility. This follow-up mission usually takes place within five years. However, it is clear that the PSAN is already working on recommendations received in a process of continuous improvement. 3. The Convention on Nuclear Safety (CNS). Its main objective is to achieve and maintain a high level of safety worldwide in nuclear power installations. The Convention requires Contracting Parties to implement the principles of its various articles. These cover all subjects relevant to the establishment of a comprehensive national system to ensure a high level of safety. The Convention requires its members to submit reports on the implementation of their obligations in the form of a peer review at meetings to be held at the IAEA. This national report fulfils the commitments that Belgium entered into by becoming a party to the Convention on Nuclear Safety which entered into force in 1996. The national report and the peer review conducted every three years set out how the CNS principles are implemented. This report is therefore updated at this frequency in the light of developments in practice, changes in facilities, legislative changes or any other relevant event. At the meetings of the Contracting Parties to the NSC, national reports are submitted to a peer review consisting of a critical review of their content, answer the questions asked and make recommendations where necessary. Since the previous peer review, particular attention has been paid to developments. The latest national report of August 2016 is available on the Agency's website in English. 4. The safety of radioactive waste and spent fuel management was discussed at the 5th Review Meeting of the Joint Convention on the Safety of the Management of Radioactive Waste and Spent Fuel (CC) held from 11 to 22 May 2015 at the headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna. In the light of the CC, the Contracting Parties are required to submit, every three years, a national report setting out how they implement the various articles of the CC. These reports are then reviewed and written questions answered in writing. At the following review meeting, the Contracting Parties shall present their reports, which shall then be the subject of oral questions and a discussion allowing the exchange of experience. Peer review is the essence of this incentive convention, which aims to expand the best strategies and practices for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel. The report of the 5th meeting is available on the Agency's website in English.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u31	Mr President, this will teach me to make short questions! The answer is therefore consistent. Minister, I was just looking at your statement during the work on the extension of Doel 1 and 2, on page 21 of Report 1493/001, in which the Minister states "the PSAN is subject, every ten years, to an international general audit, in addition to interim ad hoc audits. General audits, such as thematic audits, are always positive. The next international audit will be a follow-up audit, scheduled for 2017." Hence my question, since AFCN is subject to an international general audit every ten years, the next one is scheduled for 2017. It was related to that, no more, no less. Having said that, I am pleased to have received a more complete answer than I was asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u32	Following our various exchanges, you had personally visited the company's EZB site in Seneffe to learn in situ about the worrying situation of a company that has no nuclear activity since 2008 and whose economic and financial situation was also very challenging but which refused to completely dismantle the site. You shared my desire to avoid at all costs that the story of Best Medical Belgium should be repeated and you felt that EZB had understood the message well. The company undertook to introduce an initial decommissioning plan by 31 December 2016. At our exchange on January 11, you told me that the plan was still being analysed. What now? What are the conclusions that the PSAN draws from this? What are the next steps and deadlines in this issue that have lasted too long? When must the operator have completely dismantled and released the site?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u33	Mr Nollet, the initial dismantling plan was analysed and found to be more than satisfactory. As has already been said, this initial decommissioning plan does not guarantee that the operator is actually dismantling, but obliges the operator to think about the organisation and methodology of dismantling, particularly the waste streams resulting from the dismantling. Since there is no danger and the company does not violate the regulations for which AFCN is competent, i.e. it complies with the conditions of its operating authorisation, the Agency cannot impose anything on it, either with regard to dismantling or with regard to waste management. The financial responsibilities during the dismantling are not within my jurisdiction, nor are they within the competence of the AFCN. As far as these aspects are concerned, the AFCN does not have the legal means to establish measures, and I must refer you back to my colleagues, Minister Marghem and Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u34	Minister, we are facing a company that still has two cyclotrons in its buildings, which has not produced anything since 2008 but, if I understand correctly, has no obligation to dismantle. How long are we gonna give them? Ten years, twenty years, thirty years, forty years? What is the actual content of the plan? Are they going to restart an activity? Or are they just going to deal with a situation you say is not dangerous? There were leaks in the ceiling. There were wastes that posed a problem for which you told me, in previous answers, that it will be managed and that the UCL is on the spot. But what about Seneffe's zoning? There are two cyclotrons. We know they should be dismantled. They are not, and there is no economic activity. Or tell me more about the content of the plan because I don't know!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u35	Mr Nollet, as you know, the AFCN must look at and monitor whether there are safety hazards. There are two things. On the one hand, what about the current situation? Is she sure or not? On the other hand, does the company have a plan to dismantle or not? Once it begins its decommissioning work, it will determine whether the plan it is proposing gives full guarantees in terms of safety and public health. This is the responsibility of the AFCN. Checks are carried out on the current site to see if there are any problems and the decommissioning plan has been evaluated, considering that if the company starts work by following this plan, it is certain that this will be done safely. On the other hand, we cannot force this company to dismantle, but if it decides to dismantle, it must have a coherent plan that guarantees security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u36	Two things. They started to dismantle. Everything else is dismantled, except the two cyclotrons. So we can't say they're going to file a dismantling plan. They had to do it and they were in the dismantling phase. In addition, in your reply to me on 15 March 2016, you said: "EZB's intention is to apply to AFCN for an amendment to its operating authorisation to operate these two cyclotrons for its research activities." Where are we?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u37	They have not yet submitted this application.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u38	I don't understand very well. I thought they had started a dismantling and then they imagined something else, namely, restarting the two cyclotrons. But that's not the case since you're telling me there's not a project yet. So they have to stay in the dismantling phase! We are a little bit in a no man's land between the possible industrial project, which eventually requires the use of cyclotrons, and the phase of dismantling which was to be completed but which did not end.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u39	They cleaned everything up within the perimeter of their operating licence. The final phase will be the dismantling of the cyclotrons and they have proposed a plan to do so, if they start this work. The choice to dismantle or not is up to them. If they do not dismantle, it is clear that their facilities must be secured and the PSAN will play its monitoring role. It's like you had a plane in your garage; it's there. The day you say you're either going to use or dismantle the plane, you need to have a plan for the dismantling to be feasible or safe. Today we are in a situation where nothing happens. During my visit, they told me that they might want to restart the activities on the site. At that time, if they move in this direction, they must apply for an operating licence. Therefore, all necessary controls will have to be carried out. If they decide to dismantle, they will have to refer to their plan of action, which is well thought out. We cannot force them to choose this second option. As soon as they dismantle, the operation must take place in safe conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u40	I understand your comparison with the aircraft that stays in the garage, but it has its limits because we're talking about the nuclear sector right now. Part of the company has very dangerous components. And you're letting its managers go, without having an industrial and dismantling project that's activated. For me, this represents a real void, perhaps of legislation, but admit that if this situation persists ten, twenty or thirty years, it is a problem. Indeed, by relying on your statements, they could spend all these years doing nothing about the building – except assuming it is controlled, as you call it. We've been through this with Best Medical.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u41	The situation was still a little different. I'm now putting myself in the shoes of this company. What would be their interest in leaving these assets as well – because it is capital that does not earn?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u42	It's unusable capital. It will cost them more to dismantle than to leave the site. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u43	I understand, but the financial aspect is not my responsibility. The Minister of Economy has the final say in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u44	So I'll question your colleague. But for me, it is a legal vacuum. It's been almost ten years since this plant produced anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u45	On January 24, 2017, an incident occurred in the company CCB Italcementi Group in Gaurain-Ramecroix, located in Hainaut, a company specializing in quarries for the production of cement, aggregates and concrete. When I questioned you on February 15, you told me that the cause of the incident was still under investigation and that an action plan was expected by February 28. So I'll come back with my questions. What are the causes of the non-presence of the radioactive source in its container? Why was this event ranked at Level 1 on the INES scale? What steps have been taken to ensure that such an incident does not occur again? What does the action plan contain?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u46	The cause of the incident appears to be the presence of a compressed air gun and the absence of a riveted plate at the back of the container. Classification on the INES scale is carried out according to the methodology prescribed in the INES manual, published by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). An event is analysed on the basis of a number of criteria, such as the impact of the dose on the worker, the environment or the impact on the defence system in depth. In view of the impact of the dose received and the consequences suffered by the worker and the environment, this incident was classified at INES level 1, for reasons of defence in depth: a loss of safety barriers. In order to prevent such an incident from occurring, a check of all containers in service was carried out. Platelets have been placed on all containers that are currently free of them. Indeed, it was found that the identification plate did not appear on the source carrier of the radioactive source concerned. This plate must be removed when replacing the source but not necessarily put back in place. Although we do not perform any safety functions, its presence seems to have prevented the accident. An identification badge has been placed on the containers that do not have it. The operator has an obligation to assess whether other measures, in the medium or long term, are to be taken to prevent the reproduction of such an event. The action plan contains the following points: the immediate search for the source having left its container by authorized persons and carrying the required dosimeters; the rapid discovery of the source in the vicinity of the container and its repositioning in its container; the evaluation of the doses absorbed by the various persons potentially exposed since the last safe observation of the source in place; the information of the expert of Controlatom and the expert doctor of the SEPP; the organisation of an extraordinary committee for the prevention and protection at work concerning the incident, with the participation of informed experts and a representative of the AFCN; the examination of the other containers of the sources placed in the facilities in order to verify the presence of each riveted source, source carrier and platelets and the information of the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u47	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u48	Mr President, Mr Minister, it seems that, in mid-February last year, Italian or Italian workers lost their ability to work on sensitive sites and were prevented from entering the Tihange plant for several days. Do you confirm these facts? Can you describe them specifically? Why did the ministries concerned refuse to give any information to the press? How many people have been affected and for how long by this measure in Tihange and elsewhere? How has such a generalized measure been achieved? What were the suspicions and factors that forced this type of measure to be taken? What enabled the measure to be lifted? What is in place to avoid such squalls in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat what my colleague has said, but I would also say that the problem would be administrative: in the absence of a convention duly ratified by Italy, the National Security Authority (NSA) would not have been able to issue the necessary authorisations for workers of Italian nationality. Minister, do you confirm this problem? What is the cause? How many workers are involved? What measures have been taken to address them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u50	Colleagues, the delivery and/or revocation of security clearances for access to nuclear power plants is a competence of the NSA. Security clearances for access to nuclear sites may, however, be issued if the person for whom a security clearance is requested has Belgian nationality or that of a country with which Belgium has entered into a bilateral security agreement. The bilateral agreement with Italy was recently signed on 31 January 2017. The authorisations of Italian workers applied before the conclusion of this agreement were declared inadmissible by the ANS. They do not concern the repeal of existing security clearances but new files that have been declared inadmissible. To answer this question comprehensively, AFCN has been in contact with the ANS secretariat. They provided us with information that, in 2016, a total of 61 cases of Italian workers were declared inadmissible. Currently, cooperation between the Belgian and Italian authorities is good and this situation is resolved. Security investigations for Italian workers can start. This matter, however, falls within the competence of my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders. For more information, I have to send you back to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u51	That remains unclear to me. I feel that an administrative problem has occurred more than a real problem with the people concerned. This is a general measure which prevented almost all persons of Italian origin from gaining access for a certain period of time. But in your answer, I do not discern the true responsibles of this cougac, to resume the term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u52	Minister, you seem to confirm what I was saying. This is an administrative problem, which is now clearly resolved, since the Convention between the two countries has been ratified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u53	It was signed on 31 January 2017 and is due to enter into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u54	Mr.President, Minister, on Monday, February 20, 2017, during a transfer of radioactive liquid to the water treatment facility at Belgoprocess site 2, a quantity of liquid was found in the air pressure room. Can you tell us exactly what happened? We are told that, during decommissioning activities, a secondary operational line would have been mistakenly removed, resulting in a leak. What are the consequences of this incident? Has it been properly classified on the INES scale? Can you explain to us what led the AFCN to communicate very quickly, within 48 hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u55	Mr.Nollet, on Monday, February 20, 2017, during a slightly radioactive fluid transfer to the water treatment facility at Belgoprocess site 2, a quantity of liquid was found in the air pressure room. This space is an out-of-service part of the facility and is currently being dismantled. During the decommissioning activities, a secondary operational line was mistakenly removed, resulting in a leak. The liquid was fully recovered from the installation tank provided for this purpose. No liquid was found outside the building and there was no contamination outside the facility. After analysis, this event was ranked at level 1 on the INES scale. This incident had no impact on the health of workers or the population or on the environment. As is the case for all INES-listed events, AFCN communicated as soon as the INES level was set.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u56	Based on what did they give Level 1? In the previous question, you made it clear why...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u57	Because there was no impact on...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u58	They still give level 1 when there has been no impact. In the previous incident, they gave level 1 because there had been a limited impact on workers. You don't have the answer, it's okay. When I ask these questions, it's not for me to be reminded of the INES scale, I know it, but for me to be communicated exactly the element that justifies Level 1. I was wondering if it's not the repetition of small problems of the same order at Belgoprocess.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u59	No, I don't think so, because this is about dismantling an installation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u60	Minister, I was already asking you about this at our meeting on February 22. On this occasion, you were unable to answer my specific questions and asked me to ask for more details at our next meeting, which I am doing today, while asking you to give us a full copy of the report of 10 November presenting the results of the inspection, as well as a copy of Bel V's summary on 5 January. Without waiting for this transmission, I will return as agreed with my specific questions. What variations have been identified between the 2016 inspection and the 2014 inspection? My application is intended to receive changes in numbers, but also in maximum, median and average size and amplitude, as well as the standard deviations of these variations. How many indications had to be further analysed because they showed an amplitude greater than the non-evolution criteria? I wish you could also tell me how many indications were noted in 2016 without being noted in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u61	In the interests of maximum transparency, my collaborator not only sends you the safety evaluation report of Bel V of 5 January, but also the AFCN mail to the Doel nuclear power plant on 27 January, as well as the conclusions of Vinçotte, the recognized control body. With regard to the report with the results of the inspection, which was presented on 10 November, Electrabel indicated that this document could not be disseminated, given the confidential nature of the commercial and industrial information contained therein. This is Article 27.7 of the Law on Public Access to Environmental Information. So I can't transmit that data. But with regard to your specific questions, as you can read in the documents I have just given you, the analysis confirms the non-evolution of the indications and the non-detection of new indications. So it's zero. Eight indications showed an amplitude greater than the non-evolution criteria and were therefore subject to further analysis, which was able to demonstrate that their dimensions had been stable since 2012. We thus have the guarantee that there is no evolution of these cracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u62	There is a paradox in your answer. You are telling me that eight indications have an amplitude greater than the criteria of non-evolution and you are telling me that these eight indications have been analysed and that there is no evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u63	I explained it last time. It depends on the angle of the camera. There was an indication that perhaps there, in these eight cases, there was an evolution. But today, after a more in-depth investigation, we found that there was no evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u64	I note in the document that your collaborator has just given me that for the sample of indications that were the subject of the partial analysis, a small percentage of indications not rated in 2014 were not rated in 2016. Therefore, there were many indications that were not noted in 2014. When I ask you how many, you tell me that this information is confidential. That sounds weird to me. When it comes to location, when there are issues, dangers, etc., I understand confidentiality. But here we're talking about a number of indications. I do not see the danger and therefore the necessary confidentiality. What is written in the document submitted to me confirms the fact that indications were not detected in 2014 but indeed 2016. If you're telling me that you can't tell me the number, there's a reason for security. I do not understand this reason for safety in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u65	Electrabel is based on the law I have just cited, stating that this report is confidential. In the event of disagreement, an appeal may be brought.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u66	I will analyse the situation because I believe that, in this particular case, there is a usurpation of the use of this confidentiality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u67	Incidents are multiplying, and so are the questions. On 17 February 2017, an incident occurred at NTP Europe in Fleurus, initially during a maintenance operation. In order to prepare the decontamination of a cell, an operator activated the water inlet button. When the latter wished to cut off the water, the water continued to flow, the water supply valve remained blocked in the open position and water spread into the cell. There was also a presence of water under the cell and in a corridor and an attached laboratory. As incredible as it may seem, it seems that the funnel evacuation was in fact simply not connected to a harvest tower. The water at the end of the funnel flowed directly under the cell. How can such a situation be achieved? What controls did not work? Since when was this disconnection active? Has this incident, as it should be, been classified on the INES scale? Why did it take ten days in the case of this incident, when it seems more serious than the one we have just talked about, for which the reaction took only 48 hours? Here, the fact that the weir was not connected and that the water was flowing without notice seems more serious to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u68	Mr.Nollet, on Friday, February 17, 2017, an incident occurred at NTP Europe in Fleurus during a maintenance operation. As you indicated, in order to prepare for the decontamination of a cell, an operator activated the water inlet button. When the latter wished to cut off the water, the water continued to flow, with the water supply valve stuck in an open position. Water is supplied by a small pipe over a funnel connected to a recovery tower under the cell. The funnel flow rate was lower than the flow rate of the water flow, and the water flow spread to the cell. The physical control department immediately called on a maintenance operator from the National Radioelement Institute (IRE), present at the scene, who manually shut down the water supply. An officer of Bel V, the technical subsidiary of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN), went directly to the site to follow up on the incident management. The presence of water under the cell was quickly observed, as well as in a corridor and an attached laboratory. The removal of the funnel was not in fact connected to a harvest tower. The water at the end of the funnel was discharged directly under the cell. The physical control services and the operator used a special absorption kit to control the spread of contamination in the cell and the accompanying parts. An ambient dose rate of approximately 100 microsieverts per hour was measured. After investigation, it was found that this dose rate was mainly from a hot spot created by a radioactive particle in the absorbent product discharged under the protective cell. Lead mattresses were placed around the lower part of the cell to reduce the dose rate. During the facility's security operations, the highest dose was taken by the approved expert who managed the incident, i.e. a dose of 80 microsieverts. The maximum dose limit for occupationally exposed workers is 20 000 microsieverts per 12 consecutive slippery months. On Tuesday, 21 February, a recovery operation for the particles generating the hot spot was carried out after the recovery method was defined and several tests were carried out. It was found that a single particle of 30 gigabecquerels was responsible for the dose rate. During this recovery operation, the highest dose (22 microsieverts) was taken by the operator who transferred the source in question to cell C22. According to the AFCN inspector's analysis, several factors contributed to this incident: the failure of the recovery tower, the absence of any mention of the removal of the tower, the unrecorded water circuit when the tower was removed, the lack of maintenance at the valve level, the operator's lack of reflection before testing the water supply button. However, the incident management was carried out in a professional manner. The production process used in this cell did not require the use of water. Therefore, a valve test was not planned. The tower was likely removed before NTP Europe took over, or even before Best Medical took over the facility. After analysis, this event was ranked at level 1 on the INES scale. This incident had no impact on the health of other workers, either on the population or on the environment. As is the case for all INES-listed events, AFCN has communicated once the INES level has been set. I think it took a few days to complete all these analyses. Level 1 is also explained by the fact that one of the persons concerned was affected, not the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u69	Mr Minister, on the basis of the evidence you provide, I agree that the way in which the incident was managed is correct, "professional" as you say. On the other hand, upstream management, according to which for years there has been no connection between this reservoir and the evacuation area, is really problematic. There has been a retake of the company and this has not been tested since then. To the limit, the consequences could have been more serious if this could not have been detected via the other incident that was reported. Minister, all of this must lead you, like the AFCN and the operators, to even more vigilance at the detour of things that may seem anodizing, such as a disconnect between a pipe and a receiver that can lead to more serious consequences if it is not detected. In this case, fortunately, this was discovered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u70	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top's 17009 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u71	Mr. President, Minister, the newspaper Le Soir on March 2nd reports that the selection procedure is under way with a view to the appointment of Jan Bens' successor. You will agree with me that this position of manager but also of public figure of the AFCN has become increasingly demanding with the events of recent years. The files, in particular, of the hydrogen defects and the chaotic prolongation of Doel 1 and 2 put unprecedented pressure on the shoulders of the Agency's boss. This has been seen both at the national level and at the international level, with repeated critical interventions by neighbouring countries. This pressure will not diminish in the coming years with the release of nuclear power, which will begin during the term of office of the next Director General. It therefore seems essential to me to choose the best candidate possible, while respecting linguistic parity in the Management Committee and the 1994 law which requires that the President and the Director-General be of a different linguistic role. Minister, is it correct, as Le Soir asserts, that the government will renew the mandate of the President of the Board of Directors of the Agency before appointing the Agency's DG? This would de jure limit potential candidates for the DG position to candidates with different linguistic roles than the President. It seems clear to me, however, that the DG position is much more strategic and should not be limited a priori by the linguistic role of the President. In other words, in my view, the DG should be appointed regardless of the linguistic role of the President at that time, and then a new president should be appointed with a different linguistic role, if necessary, to comply with the 1994 law and not the other way round. Can you commit yourself to doing this? In this regard, I would like to remind you of item 7 of the House resolution of 26 April 2007, which calls for the best candidate among the two linguistic roles to be designated as DG. Is it true that the Korn Ferry office was designated to provide a list of four candidates: two Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking? What is the public procurement procedure used to designate this office? What criteria will Korn Ferry use to establish a list of four candidates? What are the competencies that Korn Ferry is responsible for reviewing? Is Korn Ferry also responsible for assessing the technical skills of candidates or only managers? The fact that the last two directors of the Agency came from Electrabel has often raised the question of their independence from the operator of the seven Belgian nuclear reactors. We have seen in recent years that an appearance of bias in the head of the Agency's DG does not contribute to the calming of nuclear safety debates. In a small country like ours, I am well aware that it is difficult to find a candidate who has technical knowledge without ever working for Electrabel. It's kind of hard. Yet I think it is necessary for this requirement to be made by the government. Do you share this desire to nominate a candidate who is completely independent, in fact and in appearance, of Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u72	Mr. Thiébaut, the information in the article to which you refer is correct in the sense that a royal order must be made to appoint several directors - ten out of fourteen - of the AFCN Board of Directors. The President's term of office is one of them. My aim is to go to the Council of Ministers in the short term with a draft royal decree. Since the current Director General is Dutch-speaking, the government can only re-design a French-speaking Chairman of the Board of Directors, in accordance with section 41 of the AFCN. This article provides for linguistic parity between the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Director General. To answer your second question, de jure, this means that the next Director General will have to be Dutch-speaking again. A decision of the Council of State of 2 December 2014 confirms this. However, the Chairman of the Board of Directors may, for example, request that he/she be removed from office. Language roles could thus be reversed. Third, to keep all options open, Korn Ferry has indeed received from the board of directors the mission of looking for two Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking candidates. The procedure was a negotiation procedure without publication, in accordance with Article 26, § 1 of the Law on Public Procurement. Korn Ferry will check all the candidates' skills, be they technical or management. The guiding thread is the function description and requirements defined by the Board of Directors. The job offer and terms and conditions were published in full transparency on the AFCN website. I would like to dwell on the last question. As you know, I attach great importance to the independence of the AFCN. In order to find a suitable successor to Mr Jan Bens, I insisted, via the Commissioner of the Government, to present the candidate's profile as broadly as possible by formulating conditions relating to the diploma as broad as possible. On the basis of an evaluation of the various agencies abroad equivalent to AFCN, it appears that they are headed by lawyers, doctors in chemistry and physics and even by an economist. I hope that as many suitable candidates as possible will come forward, giving the board all the options to achieve a good appointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u73	Minister, thank you for your clarification and confirmation. Don't you think it would be healthier to align the President's replacement with the Director? If we have to select two Francophones and two Dutch speakers, while the President is already known, then two candidates are unnecessary and incompatible with the 1994 Order. We've got a problem. Would it not be smarter, without wanting to plead for one linguistic role or another – be assured that this is not my point – to select the DG first, which in my opinion is the most important in view of what has happened in recent years and then, according to its linguistic role, to appoint a Chairman of the AC of the other linguistic role? That is the substance of the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u74	I understand what you're saying, but we're caught up in two different timings. That is why we need to renew the board of directors. In my view, DG's place must be given to the most competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u75	You would give priority to competency among the four candidates and then you will adapt to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u76	And then we'll adapt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u77	That's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u78	Two divers appeared before the Liège Correctional Court for apparently working for more than ten years – but I'm not sure and I'm asking you the question – in the Tihange plant, without a real professional certificate. They were employed as industrial divers (perhaps in training?) in places supposed to be the most secure in Belgium, outside your cabinet of course! When the facts were discovered, he said that the authorities even questioned the real identity of the two men. Minister, do you confirm these facts? What parts of the building did these people have access to? When and how were these facts and fraud finally discovered? It is also surprising how long it took to realize the situation. How do you judge the seriousness of this problem? How did this new flaw in the safety and control system occur? What has been put in place to prevent such a situation from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u79	Mr Nollet, first of all, I want to nuance the facts that you have mentioned. Two industrial divers actually worked on the Tihange site, without holding the certificate of compulsory professional qualification for their job, and used false certificates. However, at no time did their professional attitude be called into question since they were experienced workers. The origin of the problem is as follows. Since a regulation in 2005, these certificates of industrial divers are required. For strictly administrative reasons not related to the assessment of the competences of the persons concerned, they would not have received their certificates at a given time. They then decided to create false documents, according to the police and judicial authorities, to allow them to continue to do the work they had always done. Mr Nollet, you are asking me whether the authorities have questioned the real identity of the two concerned. The answer is yes. I stress that at no time has there been any objective indication that there would have been identity usurpation. This questioning of the judicial police was primarily a matter of precaution and good practice, especially given the current context of terrorism and attacks. Moreover, according to the police and the judicial authorities, this concern was quickly removed in order to give way to the essence of the problem, namely the use of fakes. The facts of the use of false information in question were discovered in the first quarter of 2016. From then on, the operator cooperated fully with the police services. Then the access of these people was blocked until further notice and pending the results of the investigation. I would also like to inform you that these two persons were holders of a security clearance at the "secret" level at the time of the incident. The persons concerned were qualified to dive into the Meuse and the deactivation pools of the nuclear power plant. They therefore had access to these places to carry out their tasks. I can assure you that my services and myself are following this kind of situation very seriously. It is good practice to draw from these experiences that will be used in the future to maintain and increase the level of safety and security of our facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u80	Minister, I believe you on your word. I hear you want to nuance the facts. You have provided us with a series of information, which allows us to better clarify the facts rather than nuance them. However, you did not answer a question. What made it possible to discover these facts? Have we decided to pass a test to everyone and check if the documents are not falsified? I asked this question in order to learn from it in other situations. I do not question the competence of the workers, but there has been falsification of documents, which, of course, does not constitute a risk of attack. However, if faults appear, it is necessary to determine the reason for them and how they have been identified, in order to be able to deal with other possible situations. Is it a specific coincidence or fact that made it possible to detect them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u81	I don't have the answer here, but I'm going to ask you and give you the explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u82	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic613x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Emir Kir's 17093 was postponed.
