ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u1	Mr Minister, Ryanair's Belgian passengers departing from Lisbon have discovered a strange practice with regard to the announcements of flights departing for Brussels. Announcements are always made in the language used in the country where the airport of departure is located, English as the international language, and the language used in the country where the airport of arrival is located. For example, for a flight from Lisbon to Berlin, Portuguese, English and German are used for any communication to passengers. Similarly, for any departure from Brussels, Dutch, French, English and the language of the country of destination are used. However, it appears that on Ryanair flights from Lisbon to Brussels, Portuguese, English and Dutch are used for announcements, but French is forgotten. Minister, is it an indelicacy to put on Ryanair's account? Is this an agreement between Brussels International airport, located in the Flemish region, but Belgian airport, and Lisbon airport? What did the Zaventem airport authorities tell you about this? Is there a request and agreement from Ryanair, the Brussels Airport airport authorities, that only Dutch, a language spoken in Zaventem but representing only one of the components of the Belgian nation, be used in announcements at foreign airports? If that is the case, is this not likely to exacerbate – while it is not necessary – the Community tensions underlying the settlement of the issue of overflights of inhabited areas around Zaventem? Are Francophones not likely to be comforted in the idea that, in Brussels Airport, the benefits and benefits are for Dutch-speaking people and the nuisances for French-speaking people, by caricaturing of course? Minister, can you clarify this matter? Can you tell us what action will be taken? What clear rules will be laid down so that all Belgian citizens flying to Brussels will retain the feeling that they are still on equal terms, members of a single nation and not foreigners to their own country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u2	Colleagues, announcements prior to boarding are made by airline agents, using the airport's communications infrastructure. These announcements are a commercial service offered by airlines to their customers, in redundancy of the tables and other information services offered by the airport itself. It could be an indelicateness or more simply the absence or lack of French-speaking personnel. Even in Belgium, the activities carried out at Brussels-National airport by companies other than the employees, tenderers or private experts of Brussels Airport, which is a company subject to the legislation on the use of languages in administrative matters and which is bound by bilingualism in its public communications, are to be regarded as mere commercial activities for which the legislation on the use of languages in administrative matters is not applicable. This case is valid a fortiori at a Portuguese airport for an Irish airline. In Annex 9, "Facilitation", Chapter 6, the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) makes recommendations to States and airport operators on passenger information, but does not specify the use of languages. As far as flights are concerned, Commission Regulation (EU) 965/2012 of 5 October 2012 applies at European level and lays down technical requirements and administrative procedures for air operations, in accordance with Council Regulation 216/2008. The Regulation provides in particular for passenger information: "The operator shall ensure that passengers are informed and receive visual safety instructions, in a form that facilitates the application of the relevant procedures in the event of an emergency." He said virtually nothing about the use of languages, except for the crew: "The operator ensures that all crew members can communicate in the same language."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u3	Minister, the question was not for you but for Kris Peeters, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy. On the other hand, I would have asked exactly the same question if it was a flight to Charleroi, i.e. Brussels South. All languages must apply in Belgium. It is above all an indelicacy of Ryanair and not of the Belgian public authorities. It is not very commercial on the part of this company to forget a part of its customers. Ryanair is brewing customers, not only from southern Belgium, but also from northern France. Many northern French fly with Ryanair to Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u4	Mr President, Minister, a little while ago, when there was a lot of commotion about the use of chromium-6 in the Gentbrugge workshop, I asked your predecessor, Mrs Galant, about the chrome-6 problem in the Belgian railways. The permitted standard of chromium-6, a product which has not been used by SNCB since 1990, but which is released by the removal of older paint layers from old trains, has been exceeded 4 to even 13 times. However, the Minister assured us that the health of the workers was not in danger. We have now been informed by newspaper reports that chrome-6 would still be released in another workshop at the moment. Here are my next questions. What is the status of this file? First of all, are there any ongoing renovations of trains in the workshop in Gentbrugge where chrome-6 might still be released, whereas those works should actually take place in Mechelen? If yes, have the workshops in Gentbrugge been adapted? Secondly, have the people in whom there would be a risk of chromium poisoning been permanently succeeded? If so, what are the results? Thirdly, is it true that the workers in Mechelen, despite their facilities, have recently had an increased number of values? If so, what are the causes of this and what measures does SNCB plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u5	Dear colleague, SNCB lets me know that the renovation works on trains are still available where possible chrome-6, stopped in the central workshop of Gentbrugge in early 2016 and moved to the workshop in Mechelen. All employees in Gentbrugge who would be at risk of chromium poisoning were screened. This study did not establish any exceedances of labour force limit values. The employees of the central workshop in Mechelen who are at risk of exposure to chromium-6 are also subject to regular medical screening. The studies carried out there also did not establish any exceedances of labour force limit values. Since early 2016, there has been a new blood test on the market that measures the amount of chromium-6 in red blood cells. The test is so new that no limit value is fixed or known for occupational exposure. There is therefore no reference framework. CPS, the external prevention service for SNCB's work, has nevertheless started to carry out this additional blood test without reference during the periodic medical examination. For the non-professional population in contact with chromium, the value is between 0.4 and 1.8. In August and September 2016, the new blood test was taken at the CW Mechelen. Eight persons had a slightly higher value than 1.8. Since the new blood test has not yet been set a limit value for the workforce and the results of the other tests are within the occupational exposure limit value, the slightly higher values were considered to be a signal level, in order to apply the existing measures in the yard even more strictly and to provide for refresher training. On 25 October 2016, the FPS Welzijn Overzicht op het Werk visited the CW Mechelen to review and evaluate the measures and safety measures taken to protect against possible exposure to chromium-6. Their evaluation was that the current measures and security arrangements are sufficient and no additional actions are required. On 1 February 2017, the FOD TWW was once again in the CW Mechelen on a verification visit to review and evaluate the measures and safety measures taken to protect against possible exposure to chromium-6. Their evaluation was that the current measures and security arrangements are sufficient and no additional actions are required.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is a good thing to keep following this and to keep measuring the values. Even if it is only a slight increase, it remains of course a slight increase. However, I note that it is being followed up fairly well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u7	Minister, the docks of the Linkebeek station are situated on horseback in the Brussels Region and the Flemish Region. This results in difficulties for passengers who frequent her. Indeed, users who live, go to work or attend a school on the side of Homborch, Moensberg, Bourdon, Dolez Avenue and, of course, Linkebeek, cannot take the train there without having to pay an extra cost of 145 euros. This is due to the fact that one wharf is located in the territory of Uccle, while the other is located in Linkebeek, therefore in Flanders. This small Belgian story could give a smile if it was not the source of concrete problems for citizens, as well as a bad signal, when they are encouraged to use public transport more. Minister, this case would deserve a pragmatic solution from the public authorities. I would also like to ask you the following questions. Have you been informed of the difficulties experienced at this station and, if so, have you instructed your services to study the paths of balanced solutions? Are there any discussions with your regional counterparts, particularly in the context of the possible extension of the MTB subscription to stopovers on the borders of the different regions? Finally, are you aware of similar cases at other stations in the country? If so, what are the avenues explored for them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u8	SNCB confirms to me that the Linkebeek station is actually located on the boundary between the Flemish and Brussels regions, and that the question of its incorporation into the Brussels tariff zone has already been raised. The principle is that only stations situated entirely within the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region may claim to be part of the Brussels tariff zone. Any system based on tariff zones inevitably implies that passengers embarking near the area at a lower rate are de facto at a disadvantage compared to passengers embarking at nearby stations belonging to the tariff area concerned. This perception is also observed in other cities. Furthermore, when the new Moensberg interchange station, close to Linkebeek, is put into service, close travellers will be able to travel both to the city centre and to the European neighbourhood by benefiting from the MTB Jump and MTB rates for the inhabitants and persons taking the train on the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u9	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You are actually talking about stations that can be nearby. I am aware that you have to put a limit and that there will always be someone who will feel disadvantaged. However, in this case, it is the same station with a wharf located in each of the regions, which makes the situation difficult. I think it is necessary to explain this to the citizens because it has very concrete consequences, particularly in financial terms, given the extra cost. I take note that this problem can be partially solved by the new station.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 16552 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 16554 reply has already been received in writing. Mrs Smaers is not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u11	Minister, the press picked up this question a few days ago in cucumber time and in the absence of news faster than I could ask myself. This is an important theme for me. We are, of course, trying to develop the public transport network in our country as best we can and I therefore welcome more travellers to SNCB. I am therefore surprised to see that it is the SNCB that is stalling. Several sources have reported that to me. The word 'tallows' is still put mildly. In fact, SNCB has been waiting for years to conclude negotiations with new developers of applications who, within the framework of the mobility budget, are concerned with the development of different modes of transport and want to bring this together in a single application. I think, in view of the government's agreement and the announcements made by the Prime Minister and the Government following the last budget, that we want to go for a mobility budget. We must encourage such initiatives. SNCB needs to jump on that cart. It is surprising to find out whether SNCB has concluded a single agreement with NV Olympus Mobility to provide a platform to combine different modes of transport in our country and to sell SNCB tickets. However, negotiations are being held with other developers, making the market impossible. One gives a kind of monopoly to one player and one gives it a strategic head start of years that the others cannot catch up with. So I have the following questions. Can you confirm that SNCB has entered into a cooperation with NV Olympus Mobility for such a platform, whereby tickets from SNCB can be sold? Can you explain to me why this company has managed to cooperate with SNCB and other interested parties have failed to do so to this day? Do you agree with me that such behaviour is, as it were, a kind of state aid that distorts free competition and gives an disproportionate competitive disadvantage to competitors? Do you agree that start-ups that could compete with NV Olympus Mobility should be encouraged? What can happen in the future to allow that market to play? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u12	My political will is clear, as has been indicated in the strategic vision since July 2015 for the development of new sales channels to the roads to follow. This should make it possible not only to sell tickets, but also to attract more passengers to the train despite the closure or limitation of the opening hours of the counters. The digital road can certainly be developed, given the global evolution of buying behaviour. Purchases happen more and more along this road. In the context of intermobility, these new applications also provide an answer to the demand for more simplicity to move, even if several modes of transport are needed. I cannot understand why SNCB would intervene in the development of a promising market by favouring a company to the detriment of others. The explanation received so far from SNCB is of a general nature and does not allow the criticism based on Olympus' competitors to be answered with a slim argument. It therefore seems necessary for SNCB to complete its reflection as soon as possible and undertake to withdraw the right to ticket sales granted to Olympus or to generalise this right to other applicants under the same conditions as for Olympus. The deadline for this reflection on the new sales channels should be set as soon as possible. This period should be as short as possible to prevent SNCB from continuing to favour a particular actor. The deadline should be communicated as soon as possible so that SNCB can adopt a rational attitude of openness in line with its commercial policy aimed at improving customer services and improving mobility. However, I believe that the role of politics is to give a direction and that companies themselves must then take the necessary steps to make this intention a reality. I will therefore not steer the project instead of SNCB, but I expect SNCB to take the file with the necessary priority to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer, which is satisfactory to me, in the sense that you actually agree that it is not possible for SNCB to favour one actor in this story. As a Member of Parliament, of course, I have only two options. I can ask you a question and I can tell you something in the paper. In any case, the situation as it stands is totally unacceptable at a time when we are calling for the introduction of a mobility budget by majority and opposition policy, where we need applications to make it work properly. It is unacceptable for SNCB to act in this way and to involve a single actor while there are all kinds of competitors who can help support and implement that policy initiative. You can't do that. Your colleague Alexander De Croo also responded to that fuss this weekend. From the point of view of the digital agenda, too, our party supports this and is actually very disappointed with the attitude of SNCB and the answers it gives on this issue. In fact, she is putting this forward without a sly answer, you said that you would give a concrete answer. I believe that time is limited. They really need to deal with Olympus' competitors correctly. If that is not the case, it will certainly have consequences. I have no choice but to ask you a follow-up question after a while, although I understand that you are not the SNCB. However, it is my means as a Member of Parliament to urge you somewhat to be behind them. We sincerely hope that it will be done in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u14	Let's go back in the agenda a little bit. I have just skipped item 7 on the agenda because Mrs Smaers was not there, but it turns out that that is a question from Mrs De Coninck. So Mrs Smaers was wrongly mentioned in that question. Will you look up the question, Mrs. De Coninck?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u15	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u16	I shall first give the floor to Mr Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u17	Mr. Chairman, Minister, the direct link between Tubize and Louvain-la-Neuve on Sunday night was removed. This train allowed students returning to their kot at the end of the weekend to travel without having to change trains in Brussels, with all their packages. It also provided some security, especially for young girls, by not having to travel in the corridors of the Midi train station at a daylight time. Minister, can you give us the reasons for this deletion? Is it possible and envisaged to return this train to service in order to allow the students not only of Tubize and Walloon Brabant but also of Hainaut to travel in good conditions and in safety from their parents' home to their kot during the next transport plan, under consideration? Thank you in advance for your answer to this question, Minister, which is also reported by Regional Member Lyseline Louvigny.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u18	Mr Flahaux, a priori, the SNCB informs me of the following. Currently, there is no direct train connecting Tubize to Louvain-la-Neuve on Sunday night. SNCB tells me there's never been any. There is therefore no question of deleting a train that does not exist tells me the SNCB. On the other hand, the application has been well considered in the context of the next transport plan and improvements are being considered. This plan should be presented to you by SNCB and Infrabel on March 14, 2017 in the Infrastructure Commission. You will then have every opportunity to evaluate the improvements that are proposed to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u19	As such, it is always better to check things yourself rather than to bring them back. That being said, according to what you are telling me, Minister, you seem to be referring to a possibility that can only go in the right direction. At that point, we will see what will happen. Since the substance of the problem is real, it will be able to meet a concrete demand from our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u20	Minister, I have already asked you a question about the RAAS system. This system was recently proposed to a number of airport partners, including the Action Committees. In our view, it may provide a solution for the wasp nest in which the escape routes are located because the system determines optimal runway use on the basis of some objective parameters. We believe that this can depoliticize the file. The choice of job use is justified on the basis of objective factors rather than current political choices. Who can oppose a system of technical parameters if it is done in a transparent, fair and neutral way? Among other things, the Action Committees were invited to that performance. The RAAS system should, inter alia, provide greater support, since the flight routes are determined in an objective, non-political manner. Apparently not all action committees are satisfied with this. It appears that legal action has already been taken to ban the RAAS system. Hence the following questions to you, Minister. Can you confirm that legal action has already been taken by third parties to prohibit the use of the RAAS system? What is the justification of the counterparties for banning the RAAS system? Where are the tests with the RAAS system? What are the initial findings? Will you validate the system, something Belgocontrol is asking for?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u21	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, in 2015 Belgocontrol was asked to purchase assistance software to make the decisions on the choice of runway at Brussels National Airport. I personally insisted that the purchase should take place as a matter of priority. This system has been successfully used for several years at the airports of Schiphol and Basel-Mulhouse. In addition to a tool for traffic controllers in the choice of jobs, this will provide greater transparency and better information for stakeholders on the deviations from the preferential job use schedule and on the prospects for job use. With such a system, automatic runway selection is based on objective parameters, but the controller always retains the ability to deviate from the runway configuration proposed by the auxiliary software. However, any derogation must be justified. The new system was implemented in the control tower at the end of September 2016 and passed the required technical test in December. Belgocontrol operationally deployed the system in early February 2017 at the Brussels National Airport control tower, but the validation process of the parameters used by Belgocontrol is still ongoing at DGLV. There have recently been discussions between the two entities concerning the parameters to be used. So far Belgocontrol has no knowledge of any action against the use of the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u22	Minister, it is a good thing that no legal action is taken against such a system by third parties or action committees. It is also positive that Belgocontrol has been operating the RAAS system since last month. It is now important to complete the validation process of the parameters. It is, of course, also important for us that the standards of wind use are laid down and that this cannot be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u23	Mrs Lalieux and Mr Hellings asked to put their questions together under item 9 at the end of the sitting. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lachaert has already dealt with 16570. Debates of the European Parliament 16630 by Mrs Van Hoof was already discussed in plenary on 16 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u24	Minister, Halle has one of the busiest train stations in the Halle-Vilvoorde region. Every day more than 6,000 people take the train and that number goes up. However, the growing flow of passengers leaving the Audi A6 on the side also has less pleasant consequences such as the parking pressure in the station environment. SNCB has therefore been planning the construction of a parking tower for some 300 cars in Halle behind the mills for several years. However, concrete implementation plans would not yet be available. Mr President, what is the state of play with regard to the exchange of land and the acquisition of land for the construction of that tower? Can you explain more about the planning of building permits, public research, the planned start and the end of the works? The parking tower would accommodate 300 cars. Is this true? Or are there any additional parking spaces coming? How many floors will the parking tower consist of?What is the estimated cost of building the parking tower?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u25	SNCB informs me that it supports the project, which is important for travellers and for mobility in and around Brussels. Once the Investment Committee has made a decision when and if the funds are available, SNCB will launch the project within the next multi-annual investment plan 2017-2020. For the state of play regarding the land exchange and land acquisition for the construction of the parking tower in Halle, SNCB will soon expect the estimation of the Purchase Committee. The purchase procedure can then be started. That'll take about six months. As the plans now look, the parking lot will offer 330 parking spaces. The car park has three floors, three staircases and an elevator. SNCB estimates the total cost at 5.7 million euros. This amount includes the purchase of the land, study and follow-up and construction costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u27	Questions Nos 16705 and 16735 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u28	Mr President, Minister, the deterioration in the regularity of trains and therefore in the quality of rail service is clearly reflected in the statistics of recent months. You announced that you had met with SNCB and lnfrabel on November 23rd in your office to discuss the many punctuality issues that currently affect rail. On this occasion, you would have suggested the designation of line managers responsible for analyzing sick lines. These are expected to be operational in early 2017. Minister, have these line managers been designated? If so, how many are they? What exactly is their task? What lines are considered "malades"? Otherwise, for what reason(s) are they not yet designated and when will they be?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u29	Mr. Chair, Minister, the punctuality of trains is one of the points on which SNCB and Infrabel have been questioned for several years. Whenever the opportunity is given to you, you assert your priority of satisfying the traveller, in terms of reception, safety and quality of transport. Also, according to your policy note, you are asking for 91% punctuality in 2017, 92% in 2019, without neutralization. This question of delays on line 96 reached, in November 2016, such a degree of deterioration of the conditions of transport that the communal elected representatives came to meet you. My colleagues and I have called you and the commuters have come together in a petition to share their concerns with you. Your reaction was quick and strong. You have asked SNCB and Infrabel to appoint line managers to monitor punctuality. Their mission is to note failures and problems and to propose solutions. Now a Platform of Understanding and Punctuality (PEP) is organized between SNCB and Infrabel to monitor the problems encountered on the network and respond to them with appropriate measures. The result is that there is a very marked improvement in punctuality. The connections are made in a more flexible way, in order to wait for the commuters concerned. Users, both individually and in association, note with satisfaction this encouraging development. However, Minister, there is still room for progress in some areas. Trains leaving Brussels still suffer from delays in rush hour, with the risk of missed connections. The bottleneck of the Brussels-Central railway station is probably for many. In the event of a problem, blocked travellers complain about being misinformed. In particular, during a problem of Hal, the information is given only in Dutch, whereas the train is mostly, if not only, occupied by French annoyers. Connections do not always take place from dock to dock opposite. Minister, your energetic and determined action has borne fruit well beyond line 96, the improvement being made throughout the network, but can you objective the improvement of punctuality since the end of 2016, when you responded to the deterioration of punctuality in October and November 2016? When and how will the sensitive points mentioned above receive a solution? What further improvements do you intend to make to the issues raised by commuters?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, in November I saw a rather worrying deterioration in punctuality on a number of lines. I had therefore asked for a reaction from SNCB and Infrabel, that they meet and, in particular, that they appoint line managers, as is the case in other countries. Although they officially took office last February, the line managers designated by SNCB and Infrabel's management started their analysis activities from January 2017. The mission of the line manager is to ensure strict monitoring of the punctuality of one or more fragile lines which have a recurring problem of punctuality and to identify concrete avenues for improvement. It therefore does not intervene in real time and is not a member of traffic management bodies. Its tasks consist of three elements: actively monitoring and analysing the punctuality of trains and the consequences of incidents; identifying and implementing concrete solutions; and monitoring the effectiveness and relevance of joint actions. There are five line managers. Each line manager has a single point of contact in the other company, which bears the name SPOC (single point of contact), and has the task of facilitating contacts within this company with the line manager. Lines whose punctuality rate did not reach 90%, as defined in the management contract, are considered to be weakened. More specifically, these are lines 94, 96, 161, 162, 50A, 89, but other lines may also be taken into account if they have a punctuality rate lower than the values set out in the management contract. With regard to punctuality, SNCB and Infrabel inform me that the measures taken by the two companies in the course of 2016 to improve punctuality on line 96 (idem on lines 161,162 and 50A) have indeed borne fruit. A continuation of these actions is planned. Specific measures for line 96 include actions at the level of the transport plan, i.e. changes in the timetables of trains identified as fragile or "disadvantages"; a feasibility study by Infrabel with a view to moving certain freight lines which come into passenger trains at peak times. Second major category of measures taken: the designation of line managers since the beginning of 2017, managers whose responsibilities and missions I have explained. As regards the optimisation of the waiting times for correspondences in Mons to Quévy, etc., the pilot projects for correspondences were put in place on 9 January 2017. This concerns Mons, Marloie and other stations. An evaluation will be carried out at each Platform of Agreement and Punctuality (PEP) between Line Eatings, a monthly meeting organized between Infrabel and SNCB. These pilot projects will be evaluated on the following aspects: the minutes of delay generated by longer waiting times, the evolution of the number of connections insured, the number of travellers benefiting from the connections. The improvement of punctuality is the daily concern of both SNCB and Infrabel. SNCB claims to be currently facing numerous works carried out throughout the network, as well as incidents (rolling stock and infrastructure or third party). A major daily recently published the analysis that was made at the end of 2016 on the distribution of causes of delays. You will have noted that there are 46% external causes and the rest are distributed equitably between the two companies. These elements have a significant impact on punctuality, but are monitored daily to identify possible solutions to address the structural causes of delays. Many actions are underway within SNCB to improve punctuality. Priority is given to actions aimed at reducing the number of equipment failures: efficient repair of equipment in maintenance workshops through better diagnostic tools, increase of staff at the train driver's help desk, increase of engineering teams by type of equipment and commissioning of new workshops to increase technical capacity. Behind this, there is what is called predictive interviews. The new equipment is equipped with on-board computers that are already launching signals on the problems that are emerging. Permanent attention is also paid to the departure at the precise time of the first day trains, as it appears that 25% of trains do not depart on time. It should be noted that the majority of these delays are less than one minute. SNCB regularly consults with Infrabel to plan important infrastructure works as efficiently as possible to reduce their impact on timeliness. Many actions are underway at Infrabel to reduce the number of infrastructure-related incidents, such as crossing disruptions, signals, and track circuits. In addition, action plans are developed in collaboration with Infrabel to reduce third-party incidents such as personal collisions, the presence of people in or along lanes. In particular with regard to information on trains, the attendant must comply with the requirements laid down in the language laws. Thus, announcements made on trains must respect the following principles: in Dutch in the Flemish Region, in French in the Walloon Region, in German and in French - priority is given to German - in the German-speaking Region, in both languages in the municipalities with facilities, etc. As far as the correspondence is concerned, SNCB and Infrabel aim to ensure a maximum number of dockside connections. However, for technical reasons and, above all, in rush hour, this is not always possible. I would like to give you the percentages, received a few hours ago, of the connections guaranteed from the point of view of the internal traffic of SNCB travellers. In Mons, in January 2016: 89.8%; in November 2016: 87.2%; in January 2017: 92.9%. Let us not draw general hasty conclusions on the basis of a single month. However, we can observe the first effects of the action of line managers. Many external events have marked October and November: bomb alert, untimely triggering of signals, etc. As of January 2016, the percentages of connections provided from the point of view of the domestic traffic of SNCB passengers in Charleroi were 92.2%; as of January 2017, 94.5%. We also have figures for lines 161, 162, which I no longer know of. They also increased significantly, knowing that in August or September we had fallen to almost 60%. In January, we were around 90%, if not above. This effort deserves to be continued. We will analyze the next results in a few months or at the end of the year, and we will see if this is a timely solution. In any case, it has been implemented, for many years, both in Germany and in France, on lines that appear to be fragile. SNCB and Infrabel put this project into practice with encouraging results, which were the subject of press articles written by commuters who denounced the poor quality of service, but who had the honesty and frankness to point out the progress made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for this fairly comprehensive response. Indeed, wait a few months to measure the relevance of these commitments and their more or less positive impact on the network. We will come back to you for these evaluations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u32	I am also extremely satisfied with the answers. Like the minister, we hope that the trend will continue throughout 2017. The idea of the line manager seems to us to be the right way to stick more to the reality of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u33	I didn't say I was "extremely" satisfied. I said we'd wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u34	Mr. Minister, work is also one of the causes of delays, including the modernization of line 162. A little history. In March 2007, SNCB launched work to modernise railway infrastructure on lines 161 and 162 between Brussels and Luxembourg. The aim of this extensive modernisation project is to raise the reference speed to 160 km/h on sections long enough to allow acceleration and deceleration and thus allow an estimated time saving of between 11 and 20 minutes depending on the type of train used. While the completion of this work had, at one point, been announced for 2014, we are today in 2017, almost ten years to the day after the inauguration of the beginning of the work. And yet, these are apparently still not about to be completed since they have just started a major construction project between Habay and Lavaux, which is scheduled to end in August 2019. The commuters, whose journey time has been constantly extended for ten years because of work, begin to despair of seeing the end of it and wait to be able to win on their journey the few minutes that have been promised to them for so long. Minister, can we hope that this modernization work is finally completed in August 2019? If not, what work remains to be done? How long will they be? Do you confirm that the time saving would be between 11 and 20 minutes depending on the type of train used?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u35	Poncelet, the current programming plans to complete the modernization work on the Lavaux-Habay section until August 2019. This completion date shall be established subject to the necessary track cuts. In parallel with this work, it is planned to continue the modernisation of line 162 on the section between Hatrival and the Luxembourg border, notably through catenary work at the Libramont station and at the Arlon station; the construction and development of a traction substation in Heinsch and the self-transforming posts between Hatrival and the border; the catenary and signalling work between Hatrival and the border to allow passage to 25,000 volts. The current programming provides for the completion of the work mentioned by the end of 2019 and is also conditioned by obtaining the necessary track cuts. After the completion of this work, the shift to the 25 kilovolts of the line will gradually be implemented on the Hatrival-Frontière section of Luxembourg until 2020. The maximum journey time of 20 minutes on the Brussels-Luxembourg route can be saved by the end of all the work to modernise the axis 3, 161-162, Ottignies-Frontière Luxembourge, as well as the switch to 25 kilovolts of the line 162 power supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u36	Minister, thank you for your very technical response. You confirm that the work will take some time, that the starting schedule will never be respected. You even talked about the end of 2019 for the end of the work. We will therefore benefit from faster trains to allow us to earn 20 minutes of journey only in 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u37	Mr Minister, in an earlier oral question I asked you if the Hasselt Stations environment was in liquidation. Your answer was that this was not the case. However, the company is considering liquidation. This can already be seen in the annual report for the financial year 2015, because that is what I quote: "The shareholders are considering a possible liquidation." At the moment no decision has been taken, the activities are currently at a standstill. A new cooperation is being examined. Moreover, the report of Hasselt City Council in January 2017 shows that the city of Hasselt would have asked the representatives of the AGB on the board of directors of the Hasselt Stations environment to proceed to a liquidation on account of non-material property property. Firstly, are you aware of the annual report of the SAH and the consideration of liquidation? Secondly, the question of the city of Hasselt to proceed to liquidation remains unanswered. The company is still active. What is the reason for the absence of a decision on liquidation? What reasons does the shareholder, Eurostation, cite for the time being not to answer the question of the city of Hasselt? Thirdly, does it seem logical to you that, with a view to a possible liquidation, the SA will not enter into any new commitments in the current financial year? Finally, what will be the financial impact of a liquidation of the SAH on shareholder Eurostation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u38	The Hasselt Stations environment was established on 10 December 2003 and aims to coordinate developments in the Hasselt and surrounding areas. Through the cooperation agreement between the Flemish Region, the SNCB Holding, the Vlaamse Vervoersmaatschappij, the city of Hasselt and the Hasselt Stationsenvironment, the NV Hasselt Stationsenvironment was designated as project coordinator. According to SNCB, the different project partners in the cooperation agreement decided in 2016 to terminate the coordination mission by the end of 2016, as no further projects are currently planned under the cooperation agreement for which the partners should cooperate. It means that after that there is in fact no co-ordination assignment for the Hasselt Stations environment and that its reason for existence disappears. Therefore, the two shareholders of the SA HSO, both the city of Hasselt and Eurostation, expressed the intention to investigate the liquidation of the SA Hasselt Stations environment. SNCB is aware of the recital to liquidation. It is therefore not the case that the city has requested liquidation and Eurostation has not responded to this. SNCB lets me know that everything was discussed between the partners. With regard to the financial results, the balance will be distributed between the two partners at the time of liquidation. The result is currently positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u39	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u40	Mr Daerden is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u41	Minister, I have already mentioned this in my previous question. Worksites carried out by lnfrabel along railway lines often require improvements to ensure safety in the vicinity of these works. Sometimes, too, road deviations are necessary. In order to set them up, it is imperative to ask for authorisations from the municipality in which the construction sites take place. I am personally concerned as a mayor with these applications for authorisation, which are too often submitted late. Therefore, there are problems with the implementation of signage. For example, work is under way at the level crossing in Houdemont, in the municipality of Habay. Major signaling problems have arisen and have required the intervention of the police and the works department of the commune, in order to reorganise all deviations. It is a waste of time and energy for everyone. It would be advisable to organise better collaboration between the services of lnfrabel and/or its subcontractors and the municipalities, so that the construction sites are carried out in good conditions for everyone. This work is generally long planned. It should be possible to anticipate applications for authorisation and police orders so that everything can be properly put in place on the first day of work. Mr Minister, should we not review the procedure, and in particular the deadlines at the level of lnfrabel, for requesting the necessary authorizations to carry out the work? Is there at lnfrabel a person responsible for organizing signage and safety in the event of works and deviations? In this case, the name of the person should be communicated to the communes. This would result in direct contact, which would improve the quality of services. Could you ask for better cooperation between lnfrabel and the municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u42	In the context of the execution of business contracts by Infrabel, the contract documents provide in a standard manner that the successful tenderer must request and obtain the necessary authorisations in time, in accordance with the applicable procedures, from the authorities managing the roads concerned and in agreement with those authorities. This rule applies to all managers working on roads. These conditions also prevailed in the specific case of the municipality for the passage to Houdemont you are talking about. In addition, Article 79/1 of Infrabel Paper 61, which contains the additional provisions for public works contracts, supplies contracts and public service contracts, which I shall quote from you, applies ex officio in the context of works of a company. This article is very clear: "Road traffic - Only authorisations in principle relating to road traffic barriers are negotiated by Infrabel with the road management authorities. These are described in the special specifications. Such authorisations in principle and any additional authorisations must be the subject of a final common agreement between the successful tenderer and the authorities concerned. Traffic safety must be ensured at all times. "It is up to the successful tenderer to take all the necessary measures not to cause road traffic other than those authorized by the special specification, and to ensure the safety of the latter. It is required to install the regulatory road signs by day and by night, in agreement with the road management authorities. The successful tenderer shall contact the road management authority(s) in the area of work sufficiently early, in advance, and before the start of the work. It shall comply with the instructions of the latter with regard to the provisional marking to be installed. The managing official reserves the right to prohibit the commencement of work until the successful tenderer has provided the required authorizations, without being entitled to any compensation or an extension of the time limit. The successful tenderer shall be solely responsible for the implementation and maintenance of the signs and signals". Infrabel therefore makes every effort to ensure that successful tenderers are obliged to apply in time for the necessary authorisations from the authorities concerned, within the framework of the contractual provisions for the work of undertakings. The contractor is Infrabel. It shall indicate in its specification the obligations which the successful tenderers have, on the basis of a circulation scheme initially negotiated between Infrabel and the administrations concerned before the invitation to tender. There is a scheme of principle. It is then up to the contractor to implement and request the regulations, by-laws of the mayors, etc., to place the signs within the time limits and in accordance with the required requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for that explanation. For having lived in the field, I can tell you that timings are not really respected by companies. The quality of the signs put in place is also not on schedule, which causes serious traffic concerns, and even safety concerns. We, the heads of the communes, will therefore also tighten our requirements, particularly on deadlines, to grant authorisation to companies. Even if it is clearly defined in the texts, things are not lived in this way on the ground. I repeat, we are going to tighten our demands.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u44	Mrs. Lahaye-Battheu is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u45	Minister, we have heard a number of times that the road code will be revised. A working group would also be set up in this area. About a year ago, your predecessor, Mrs Jacqueline Galant, on the occasion of the States-General of Road Safety, launched the revision of the road code and the setting up of that working group. In the meantime, was the working group established? Who is active in the working group? What points will be discussed? What results have been achieved in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u46	As already mentioned in the answer to similar question No. 1880 of 1 November 2016 of yourself, Mrs Dumery, in March of last year a method was agreed with the representatives of the regional governments. Because the traffic regulations are no longer an exclusive federal competence, it was chosen to retain the current traffic regulations as a starting point and to abandon the idea of a completely new text with a new structure. The changes entered in the most recent draft revision of the traffic rules, which date from before the latest state reform, will, as far as possible, be incorporated into the current structure of the traffic rules. A technical working group, meeting monthly, started work on 14 April 2016. In that working group are representatives of the Regions, the FPS Justice, the police, the police judges, the prosecutors, my cabinet and the administration. The working group is due to complete its work with a view to publication in 2018 by the end of 2017. The articles in the road code shall be covered individually and, if deemed necessary, adjustments shall be proposed. Most of the changes are made, as indicated in the answer to your previous question, on the basis of the latest draft revision of the traffic regulations. The Working Group has analysed 41 articles so far. The proposed modifications are immediately included in track changes in a coordinated version of the current traffic regulations. Once the exercise for the full traffic regulations will be completed, the proposed modifications will be included in a Royal Decree amending the traffic regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hear that you are restricting yourself to the articles of the road code which need to be reformed in the context of the sixth state reform and nothing more. The recommendations of the States-General of Road Safety are therefore not taken into account. Parliament also has a number of ideas on how to reform the road code and, above all, on how to modernise it. It is not enough simply to review the articles and to consider what changes need to be made in the context of the sixth state reform. Of course we should. But we also need to look at what we need in traffic today in order to improve road safety. We also need to adapt the federal provisions. I am afraid, Minister, that we do need to go a step further. For example, our proposal from the school street is not included. There are also a number of new technologies, such as electric bicycles and electronic signs. We also need to respond to other needs and simplifications. So there's more to it. Perhaps we should base ourselves on the conclusions of the States-General of Road Safety. However, I am already glad that the exercise is happening. It may not be necessary for this to be done on a monthly basis. I do not think this should last until the end of 2017; this can be faster. I'll keep following up the file. I am sure that it is also your practice to ensure road safety and to ensure that our road code has been adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u48	Mr. Minister, the city of Knokke-Heist would have agreed modalities with SNCB in 2016 to buy the Heist station. In the autumn, negotiations would continue to proceed with the purchase of the building in 2017. For this purpose, EUR 695 000 was also foreseen on the 2017 budget. I have the following questions. Is SNCB planning to sell the station building Heist? If so, are there any appointments with Knokke-Heist? What is the procedure and timing? What's the estimate of the station building?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u49	Mrs Dumery, the answer given by SNCB shows that the Heist station building is currently only used in school holidays for ticket sales and therefore for the public service. The rest of the building is empty. SNCB does indeed intend to sell Heist's station building, because the building is no longer needed for its public service tasks in the future. There are a few technical installations in the building. These will be removed over the next few months. It is therefore justified to seek solutions for the building. In accordance with its valorisation strategy, SNCB first contacted the municipalities to find a solution together. It is the municipality itself that is willing to purchase the building instead of a lease or domanial concession. However, no agreements have been made with the municipal administration regarding a direct sale to them or for a certain amount. SNCB sells its buildings and land as far as possible through market consultation. Municipal authorities can then offer. Therefore, no estimate of the value of the building is given in advance, but in respect of the valorisation strategy, sales are made through market consultation to respect the equality principle of each. If the possibility for a window during school holidays remains guaranteed, this solution is preferable to the vacant position of the building during most of the year. However, it is not certain whether this will happen in 2017, or in 2018. There are still some building work to be done in advance, e.g. access to the platform on the other side of the tracks, as well as some technical work. The counters are only open in the summer months. SNCB will retain the point of contact in Heist for as long as necessary. SNCB will impose on the buyer the condition that the counter must remain at the disposal of SNCB free of charge.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u51	Minister, the federal government has set very clear road safety objectives in the coalition agreement. For example, the number of road deaths should decrease by 50% by 2020 compared to 2010. In Flanders, Minister Weyts also takes up the gauntlet against what he calls the disgrace of the 400 road deaths in Flanders. His Road Safety Plan therefore focuses on the reform of driving training, as agreed in the Sixth State Reform. On 1 June this year, the driving examination bar will be raised and Minister Weyts would also like to address driving training. However, in order for each region to be able to reform driving training at its own discretion, it is necessary to reform the model of the provisional driving licence, which remained federal in the state reform. Minister Weyts has therefore sat with you and with the other Regions and has made a unanimous proposal. In future, the regions with a uniform blank provisional driving licence will be able to carry out the desired reforms. On 21 December last year, the Mobility Ministers sat together and indicated that you would make the changes they proposed. For this purpose, reference was made to the special law, Article 6, §4, third, which, by the way, obliges you to do so. From different angles I hear that there would be no cooperation. I cannot imagine, Minister, that, while there is agreement between the various ministers of the regions and when you are obliged to implement their proposal, you would be in conflict. That is why I dare to ask you the following question and expect a positive answer. Will the Ministers of the Regions receive your cooperation on the provisional driving licence? Can the model they have proposed be introduced? Can you give me a timing, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u52	Indeed, on 21 December last year I had a joint meeting with my three colleagues from the Regions. The conclusions of that meeting were confirmed by a letter from each Region, in which they shared the following questions. Firstly, they are asking for the withdrawal of the three-year waiting period, on the basis of the proposal for a decision of the Flemish Region. Secondly, they wish to adapt the model of the provisional driving licence, as proposed jointly by the three regions. The federal and regional administrations will meet in March to discuss the proposal together. If, after that consultation, there is a consensus on the proposal, the federal government will approve the amendments and incorporate them into a royal decree. I hope to be done with that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u53	Mr Minister, you have given a reassuring answer, because there was a bit of a fear that this would be postponed. If I understand correctly, there is one time in March when it will have to be confirmed that there is a consensus and if that confirmation is given together, then you will be issuing a KB in which the question of the Regions is carried out. You have reassured me, but you have reassured everyone who supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u54	Another problem less.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u55	Minister, the booth of Bombardier Brugge was on the news this week or last week. At the end of January, Bombardier announced that they would restructure heavily in their Bruges branch, but they said that there would be mainly cuts in support services. SNCB obviously has an interest in this since its purchase contract with Bombardier for the M7 vehicles requires them to be produced in Bruges. I asked you a question earlier and you replied that this was not specified in the specifications and that this should not be because it is not legal, but that it was specified in an annex to the contract on which site the M7 vehicles should be produced. That was very reassuring at the time. The production order is crucial for the survival of the location in Bruges and therefore for hundreds of jobs in this country. It is therefore essential for SNCB to help ensure that Bombardier complies with this contractual obligation. That is why I have the following questions for you. What effect does the announced restructuring in Bombardier Bruges have on ensuring that the M7 vehicles would be built in Bruges? Can something still go wrong there? Secondly, was SNCB already in contact with Bombardier about the announced restructuring at Bombardier and its implications on the order of the M7 vehicles? If so, what is the summary of these contacts? Thirdly, what initiatives will SNCB take if Bombardier does not comply with this contractual obligation? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, public procurement legislation generally does not allow a specific localisation for production to be imposed. The principles of the M7 carriage contract are as follows: Firstly, the list of sites and subcontractors recognised by SNCB is explicitly included in an annex to the contract. Secondly, the site Bruges is the only one included for various operations on the 355 carriages: at A/B and BDx, B second class, A/B first and second class, BDx steering carriages. Thirdly, the 90 Bmx carriages to be set up are assembled in France. Fourthly, the planned operations in Bruges on the 355 carriages are: assembly of carriage cabinets, painting of carriages, installation of systems and installation of wheelsets, static series tests and final control. Fifth, it is therefore a role of integration and assembly of pieces that can be produced on various sites. Sixthly, the proposed sites should not be modified without the prior agreement of SNCB. However, in the event of refusal, SNCB must justify its decision, for example on the basis of quality audits or a lack of references. Seventh, the additional costs arising from the change of site, which were accepted by SNCB where applicable, are borne by the supplier. Eighthly, this means that the contract does not allow to block decisions about a change of site at first. That would not be legally consistent. Moreover, the process of changing the site is indeed framed in order to safeguard the interests of SNCB with regard to the quality of the equipment and the possible financial consequences. SNCB informs me that there is no guarantee that the M7 vehicles will be built in Bruges. At present, Bombardier has not taken a decision in the context of restructuring. SNCB adds that it is in regular contact with Bombardier in connection with this contract. Pending a decision by the manufacturer concerning the restructuring and confidentiality of this file, the effects could not yet be analysed in detail. SNCB guarantees that it will ensure strict respect for the various clauses of the contract, but will not be able to block the change of site if this change is carried out according to a contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I will certainly read the report. I have heard in the beginning that the Bruges site is sometimes the only one to carry out certain tasks, but on the other hand it is still possible to do so provided that they motivate on the basis of quality and such that they would still miss the order. I am sure you will make every effort to keep that order in Bruges. I'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u58	Minister, it seems to me, according to the press, that you intend to pass or that you have already passed through this station.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u59	I came by unexpectedly yesterday. There were 40 people waiting for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u60	So you went through it. What worries us, minister, is that the front page of the New Gazette on February 16 was: "La Louvière-Centre train station will close its doors". The newspaper states that the building would be replaced by a container, but states that the uncertainty is about the future of the station: "The opportunity to carry out works or to permanently close the station? The issue remains open. For now." As part of the Strada project to renovate the neighbourhood surrounding the Gare de La Louvière station, it was intended to renovate the station and even to build a new one. But with the real estate project in the wing, the inhabitants are worried about the fate of La Louvière-Centre, which, as its name suggests, occupies a central place in the city. According to my information, the building would suffer from problems in terms of foundations and roofing. Moreover, a container currently in place in Saint-Ghislain is expected to arrive in La Louvière in early August. Minister, do you confirm the upcoming closure of the La Louvière Centre station? Do you confirm the placement around August or at another time of a container as a station? If so, how long will this container be maintained? Do you know that in La Louvière-Sud, a container presented as "temporary" - and nicknamed by some Stalag in reference to the prisoners' camps of the Second World War - was "temporary" for 17 years? You understand that there is some resentment about this kind of device. Currently, the La Louvière Centre desk is open from 6.30 a.m. to 1.45 p.m. on weekdays and from 7 a.m. to 2.15 p.m. on weekends, which is already very few. Will it be kept to a minimum on the same schedule? Will there be another counter with another schedule or no counter at all? Is it planned to renovate the building at La Louvière-Centre, rebuild a new one or destroy it without replacing it? What is the cost of repairing the existing building? Is there a budget available to build a new station? The station contains a fresco of great historical and cultural interest. What does SNCB intend to do with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that SNCB has declared a moratorium until 2020 on the complete closure of ticket office functions at railway stations. I would also point out that there is no question of abolishing the service to La Louvière-Centre station, but that SNCB and the city jointly examine the future of the station building. The building has many unoccupied premises, including vandalism in the unoccupied premises. The station now has a surface area of 2,600 m2, while the actual needs are 300 m2. Discussions between SNCB and the city are ongoing. It is therefore premature to decide on the future allocation of the station building, which is decided in consultation between the city of La Louvière and SNCB. In any case, the fresco in the no-lost room will not be destroyed. It may one day be out of place, but all of this will be the result of decisions taken jointly by SNCB and the city of La Louvière.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your brief answer. It refers almost all the answers to this consultation that you are talking about between SNCB and the city.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u63	Can I add an item? They decided to conclude their discussion within three months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u64	It is indeed interesting to know that in three months, one must be fixed on the fate of the station. In any case, I take note of your reminder. I had already asked the question about the possibility of closing the ticket office and the station under this legislature. You recall the 2020 moratorium. However, I hope, minister, that while we leave the window, we will not reduce the access time that is already quite low at this window currently accessible only in the morning. It would therefore be quite damaging if this time of access to the window were further reduced. For the rest, unfortunately, I have no answer. So, I can't comment on your non-responses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u65	We had an exchange of views on this 14 days ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u66	Mr President, we were able to discuss this at length with the two ministers. I assume there are no additional elements yet. So the question is actually without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u67	I obviously agree with Mr Geerts. I would just like to know if there have been any new developments since we received the lighting from the two ministers in committee two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall disappoint you because I have not received any new elements since our intervention in the Committee on Infrastructure on 22 February. Mr Borsus told you about the deadlines for the investigative body. The Public Prosecutor's Office has not made any public communication and will not disclose any material to me if it does not disclose it publicly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u69	Mr President, the question was put before the hearing and I thought it was actually taken off the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u70	Question No 16827 by Mr Foret is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u71	Minister, in July 2015, I asked your predecessor about the access of the Arlon station to people with reduced mobility (PMR). Indeed, following the modernisation of the Arlon railway station, which cost almost 3 million euros, it became apparent that access to the docks for the PMRs was not optimal at the end of the work. Mr Jo Cornu, present at the inauguration however, explained that: "access for PMRs was also included in the renovation plans." Yes, in fact, the PMR access was integrated for Pier No. 1 only, but there is no elevator provided for access to the other docks. I was then told: "The SNCB will update its multi-year investment plan, taking into account a comprehensive needs analysis. This updated investment plan will allow the planning of the projects it contains to be determined." In view of this important renovation, it is regrettable that this beautiful train station, which accommodates almost 4,000 passengers a day, is not accessible to all users. The Arlon train station is the busiest station in the province of Luxembourg. Minister, has the investment plan been updated? Are lifts available for RMPs to access all docks at Arlon station? If not, do you plan to carry out this work? When can they be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u72	For the Arlon station, SNCB informs me that in order to improve the accessibility of PMRs, it has planned the installation of lift platforms allowing these people to transit from the corridor under lanes to the docks and vice versa. These platforms will be handled by SNCB personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u73	Thank you, Minister. That's good news, but you didn't tell me when it was planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u74	It's planned for 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u75	All right. We will remain attentive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u76	This is an innovation for SNCB. It is a platform as used in other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u77	So it's a first. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u78	Mr Minister, you have recently been questioned in plenary about the revelations that have appeared in Echo about what appears - and you will reply to me about it - as dysfunctions in the medical monitoring service of railway workers. The latter denounced serious problems relating to "the accuracy and reliability of official reports, the ineffectiveness of computer software used and shortcomings in the medical surveillance of agents". This article deals in particular with problems relating to "the reproducibility, validity and procedures for issuing health assessment forms after examination of the occupational medicine and/or psychological of the agents of the railway companies". In short, the newspaper highlights possible suspicions of conflicts of interest affecting the service concerned. These malfunctions, if proven, are serious and raise questions. Minister, since your answer in plenary, have you obtained any new information on this matter? If malfunctions are found, will HR Rail take steps to improve the management of this service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u79	Mr Cheron, while Corporate Prevention Services (CPS) is accused of serious malfunctions by one of its dismissed employees, the various audits and legal approvals are ignored. Pursuant to Article 150 of the Law of 23 July 1926 on SNCB and Belgian railway personnel, CPS was recognised as an external service for prevention and protection at work within HR Rail. The latter company informs me that as an external service, CPS must introduce every five years an accreditation file with the SPF Labour & Social Concertation. The current accreditation runs until the end of the year. In accordance with the legislation, a new dossier was introduced at the end of 2016. CPS must also hold an ISO 9001-2008 certificate and hold this quality label. Each year, an audit is conducted by an external office. The last was realized in 2016 by the Vinçotte office. The next one is scheduled for June or July of this year. CPS is also recognized as a psycho-medical centre by the Mobility & Transport FPS. As such, it provides the necessary medical and psychological certifications. Each year, the Railway Safety and Interoperability Service (SSICF) also conducts audits under the Belgian Rail Code. The next audit is scheduled for March 14. I will not mention the exhaustive list of the many internal audits carried out within CPS. The organisation, operation and financial resources of CPS are not only monitored by external and independent bodies, but also internally by the CPS Opinion Committee. Within this committee, which meets every three months, there are representatives of employers and staff as well as a delegate from the SPF Employment, Labour & Social Concertation. In conclusion, according to the information available to me at this stage, I can only say that CPS is subject to numerous audits and controls aimed at ensuring its proper functioning. None of these audits would have revealed - I speak well on the conditional - serious shortcomings in the functioning of CPS. However, before I comment on this specific situation, I expect clear and precise answers to my questions about the case you are referring to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u80	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response to the audits that have already been carried out, but also to those that will be carried out. I will keep an eye on what might come out of it. In other words, I adopt the same caution as you with regard to what has been announced as possible malfunctions. Therefore, I will return to question you in the light of the planned audits. I am thinking in particular of the one which was decided on the initiative of the interoperability body, even if it depends on Minister Borsus - if I recall correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u81	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, it seems that the situation on Infrabel's board of directors is complicated. As you know, I have very little information on what can happen to Infrabel's board of directors. Perhaps colleagues are better informed, I don't know. I had echoes from an important board of directors. Minister, I am counting on your clarification. I know you made the ENA. You're going to tell us if it's about the 2017-2020 PPI or the business plan. The press mentions both. We mix them. I don't know if it's a hoax or if you're going to clarify it, given your responsibility as the minister responsible. Is this Infrabel's PPI, the business plan, a mixture of the two? I'm very worried about the confusion that seems to have settled. It comes to my mind that a first proposal was blocked in the Management Board due to a debt of EUR 200 million. The CEO, Mr. Lallemand, noted this blockage in relation to a demand for debt. There is no question of a virtuous debt, minister. I'm making the distinction. There is virtue; no doubt there is also vice. Some had to consider that there was vice, which is antonymous of virtue. Mr Lallemand's proposal has been rejected. I would remind you, however, that if he had to make this 200 million additional debt proposal, it was because of a tutelage which imposed on him savings of almost 2.1 billion over the entire legislature. We've known that for a few months. Having been recalculated, Mr Lallemand came back with a new project, which he considered to be budgetaryly neutral. This probably results in substantial savings within the budget for Infrabel's future. This new proposal was presented to the Board of Directors and would have been adopted by such a short majority that it had a number of implications. There are several reasons for this blockage. Among these, mention is made of the possibility of temporary slowdowns on certain lines, mainly Walloon ones, in order not to affect traffic safety in areas where the tracks are degraded. I recall here that I have tabled a motion for a resolution on capacity-building, particularly in the southern part of the country. The problems of maintaining capacity had in particular been revealed by an audit of the École polytechnique de Lausanne. Minister, you like Switzerland, like me. You know how much this Polytechnic, of which I am sure it is dear to your heart, is capable of carrying out particularly interesting audits for us. Minister, I am really trying to raise your interest. I'm talking about what you like so you can give me a good answer. Mr Minister, does all of this mean that the state of the Walloon network, given the financial means available to guarantee its renewal and maintenance, is at this point degraded? From the perspective of this PPI of Infrabel or the business plan, under the conditions that I have developed, what lines could they be affected in the future by these traffic reduction alerts? Rather than imposing new savings of EUR 200 million on Infrabel at the expense of network security and capacity maintenance, would it not be possible to mobilise resources within the framework of either the virtuous loan I have quoted or a virtuous new loan? In any case, since the question of maintaining capacity is by its very nature virtuous, it seems to me, minister, that this path is to be explored. These are the questions I wanted to ask you about this important question of the future of the railways, as was pointed out in the debate on punctuality. It said that, if there were external causes, there were also causes due – if I am right, minister, I would say 25% – to the problems of infrastructure, catenaries, roads, etc. This subject is therefore, of course, a fundamental one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u82	Mr Cheron has made the introduction exhaustively. My two questions concern, on the one hand, the additional savings, on which articles appeared mainly in French-speaking media and, on the other hand, the consequences of these savings, on which I read mainly articles in Het Belang van Limburg. It is noted, among other things, that the additional savings of EUR 150 million decided by the Governing Council on 20 February may lead to a deterioration in punctuality, the reduction of a line on two tracks to one on a track, mainly in Wallonia, and even the closure of lines. Mr Minister, I am still studying the table that I have received from you today, but I would like to ask the following questions. Is the figure of 150 million additional savings correct and what is that amount based on? Is that just to stay in line with what the government has imposed? What is the impact for 2017, 2018, 2019? Do you have the 63/47/K key? What are the consequences for existing lines and their maintenance? Will speed limits therefore be imposed? I read that, if maintenance cannot be carried out, speed limits will be imposed. What is the overall impact of the multi-annual investment plan? I now come to my comments and questions about the consequences, specifically concerning the project for the Hasselt-Maastricht rapid tram. For this, 14 considerations had to be abolished. Both from Open Vld, by the mouth of Marino Cologne, and from the N-VA, by the mouth of Mrs Brepoels, it has been underlined that this should not be saved, given the damaging effects on mobility. In fact, I thought that their fellow Members on their reports would have joined my question here in the Committee on Infrastructure. This is an example from the newspaper, but there are undoubtedly many others, which once again show that we cannot save without consequences. Minister, are you still convinced that savings at Infrabel have no impact on staff, investment and security? Do all Flemish government parties agree that the savings at Infrabel have an impact on mobility? In this case, it is specifically about Limburg's mobility, in which not much money is being invested at the moment anyway. I know that there is a discussion on whether or not the 2013-2025 multiannual plan was funded. Are there any tables of items not included in the list 2017-2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u83	Mr President, Minister, Infrabel's 2017-2020 business plan, which includes its investment plan, is slow to come. By the end of November, a first draft of the plan had been submitted to the Board of Directors. It called for the use of lnfrabel's debt to the tune of EUR 200 million and was not accepted. A new version would have been presented in February, providing for a stabilization or even a reduction in debt. Therefore, the resources that will not be provided by the debt will have to be offset elsewhere and therefore, without a revision of the public allocation, on the operating or investment budget. These savings are likely to affect the maintenance of the infrastructure and thus the maintenance of its capacity. The press reports that in order not to affect traffic safety, temporary slowdowns could be decided on certain lines, mainly in the south of the country. Minister, you have always stated that your priority is the traveller. In an interview with RTBF on Tuesday, 24 January, you explained: "As soon as I arrived, I told the SNCB Group that my priority was the traveller and that any action and decision had to be put in perspective in relation to this objective." You have also said that you want to improve urban and suburban supply without it being at the expense of rural lines. At the end of December 2016, SNCB's Board of Directors approved a further reinforcement of its offer from December 2017. This would also concern more rural areas. Minister, what is the status of Infrabel's 2017-2020 business plan? How does it relate to the billion more investments in the network? How does it relate to the future management contract? Have you met Mr Luc Lallemand on this subject? If not, is that planned? If so, what came out of that meeting? What is the government's position? In the expected corporate plan, how could the means not provided by the debt be offset? What lines could they be affected by these "temporary slowdowns"? What does that mean? What is the impact for the user?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Board of Directors of Infrabel approved, on 20 February 2017, a draft corporate plan which also includes a part of PPI, covering the years 2017 to 2020. This corporate plan of the board of directors plans to reduce the company's debt by 187 million between January 1, 2014 and December 31, 2020, while the government's intention, reiterated in the government statement, is to stabilize the debt and then consider its reduction. To achieve this significant debt reduction, Infrabel plans to reduce its investments by 197 million compared to its draft business plan of November-December 2016. They had a first draft business plan in November-December 2016. Too bad some administrators didn't approve it at the time! Don't complain about it today! The reduction concerns, inter alia, the renewal of infrastructure and, according to Infrabel, will lead to the creation of delayed zones on certain lines. At its meeting on 20 February, the Management Board also gave a mandate to the management to consult with the Minister. In that context, I met with the chairman and the delegate director of Infrabel. The consultations are still ongoing and I shall await their conclusion before giving more details. The billion additional investment comes in addition to the multi-year investment plans of Infrabel and SNCB. When a temporary slow-down zone is imposed on a line, travel times are extended until renewal work is completed. Depending on the length of the journey, it may be necessary to adapt the timetables to preserve the connections and, on largely single-track lines, to preserve the crossing of trains on the double-track sections. My vision is clear. Every last public must be spent, i.e. it must not be spent if it is without added value for mobility, but it must be spent if it can have a positive effect on mobility. It is this vision that I want to see applied in railway companies under my supervision, no more or less.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u85	Minister, thank you for your answers; I like to understand things. I think I have better understood the confusion between the business plan and the new, shortened IPP. It is a little difficult to find it because, before, there was a single IPP, known as the IPP, which covered a longer period of time and concerned both companies. Now we are in a more shortened scheme of IPP per enterprise and shorter also in the years; we have debated it. I'm not even sure there's any disagreement on that. There is no point in having IPPs too far away if it is not to carry out anything or to carry out projects that are not sufficiently finalized. You tell us here that the corporate plan came to the board of directors, with a PPI component. I can see a little clearer. The conclusion I draw from this is that it is a little bit the same, that is, we are still in the same debate to know how the impact of savings measures will be at the level of the transport plan. I get it. The board of directors votes in February but you yourself say that it would have done better to vote on the text that had come before. I agree with you. In short, this situation leads you to have to play the negotiator with Mr.Lalman, the CEO of Infrabel. About what? The impact for the traveller. That is one of the questions I will ask Mrs Dutordoir next week, as we are going to receive it. This is called the Happy Entrance. I remember Charles-Quint's. I wasn't there, but I can see what it's like. For Mrs Dutordoir's Happy Entry, my first question would be: in what way what is not yet decided, but which is potentially pending in the case of Infrabel, is it likely to have an impact through the slow-down areas causing the lengthening of journey times? We are announced a great transportation plan with improvements, which are based on elements that risk undermining things. Indeed, if we are offered this transport plan, which is an improvement on the previous one, but that Infrabel votes certain things at the same time and confirms what it has already almost adopted – I mean a substantial reduction, on a number of lines, of works which, being not done, justify the establishment of zones of slowing down – which is suffering the impact? Mr Flahaux's question earlier was very optimistic. Punctuality? Everything's better, it's all settled. There are crisis managers on the lines. But the very basis of what allows punctuality, that is to say of the ways and catenaries maintained, is threatened by a decision of a board of directors that is still pending since, if I have understood correctly, the deals continue. My political comment comes then, after I tried to understand the technique. I will have to be explained, and you know how hard I can be on the job in this case, how to reconcile a nice transport plan for travellers – and so much better if they are at the centre – with the savings that Infrabel will decide to make, and which will have an impact on those same travellers. We cannot on the one hand announce an improvement and on the other, decide things that have an impact. We will therefore have a very interesting debate next week on the impact of a number of decisions that do not allow an improvement for the traveller. Or else, I need to be told how. I will therefore come back at that time to know whether this objective of stabilisation before reducing debt, which you have mentioned, is truly tenable when we know that Europe, the European Commission in particular, tells us that, in a number of strategic areas, it is rather a question of reinvesting. And what does she quote? Mobility, infrastructure, digital and education. This is a fundamental debate if we are not only to preserve, but to improve the situation for the traveller. Among all the questions asked, this is one of the most important, in my view, for the future of rail and passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As far as my specific question for my friends in Limburg is concerned, I have not received an answer, but I will ask additional questions in writing. The answer shows that my first intervention in response to the government's savings, at the time addressed to Mrs Galant, was justified. I asked her on what basis she had decided to save 2.1 billion. It seemed to me that the government had decided this at night, without considering whether such savings were realistic for SNCB and for Infrabel. On the basis of objective criteria, including the number of kilometres of rail, the maintenance costs, the number of trains and the ambitions, one must be able to determine what one needs. At that time, there was never a reply, not even by the companies. When I asked that question to the various CEOs, they could or could not answer it. Today, colleagues from the majority also often ask legitimate questions, starting from the point of view of travellers. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I think you are being pushed right into the facts today. Now you will see the consequences of the savings you have approved. I am surprised that 70 questions are often on the agenda of our committee meeting about capacity problems, including the majority, when it has approved the savings. Minister, my reproach to you and to the government is that you have not spoken a clear language. I think it is very clear when people say how much savings are going to be made and what the consequences are, but you have not dared to do so. I'm sorry about that. All of you, members of the majority, are now faced with the consequences of the savings measures of 150 million, virtually one billion, which you have approved in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u87	Minister, the effects of the disproportionate decisions made during the discussions on the necessary reductions and savings are felt. They were in billions. We'll see later. We can't do a miracle, even if we're talking about small reinvestments. That's very disappointing. We will be attentive to what will be decided for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, we have given everyone time to speak on a subject that deserves more time than a specific question about a specific station. That is why I thought that additional speaking time would be useful. For the following questions, however, we shall try again to keep a closer eye on speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u89	Minister, I have welcomed with great enthusiasm your announcement of the EUR 1 billion loan for additional investments in rail over the next few years. This opens up prospects for several projects currently at a standstill. Among these, I am thinking of the reopening of the Valenciennes-Mons railway line, a matter that has been dear to my heart for years and for which I am still waiting for a positive outcome. It is a project whose strategic and economic stakes are of paramount importance for the agglomerations of Mons and Valenciennes, located less than 35 km from each other and which together comprise some 600,000 inhabitants. Today, the absence of a section of only 1,200 metres at border level, disconnecting the French and Belgian rail freight networks, is indeed a serious handicap for trade. Aware of the positive effects of this transport axis, our French neighbours have already reached agreement on the budget to reopen the line and take over the majority of the funding, i.e. EUR 15 million. For the Belgian side, it is a budget of less than EUR 2.7 million that needs to be found. This amount is far from astronomical and represents just 0.3% of the billion euros you will have to reopen an international line. Given the relative weakness of the budget required for the reopening of this line, can we count on your support for the defence of this project? Is there a possibility that it will still be a priority in the future investment plan or in the list of investments in the loan you have announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u90	My colleague, it is a fact that Belgian rail is already making a major contribution to encouraging trade between France and Belgium. In addition to the high-speed line between Brussels and Paris, there are currently several border points linking the two countries by rail. Line 96 at Quévy, line 131 at Erquelinnes, line 165 via Athus, line 94 via Froyennes or line 76 at Mouscron. Infrabel's investment plan is still under discussion. A large number of projects will be analysed and arbitrated, including the reopening of the Valenciennes-Mons railway line. When we reason in terms of investment, we must not only think of ways. There's the impact on SNCB. It is necessary to see whether it has the bicurrent equipment, the type of activities developed there and what commercial burden this creates for SNCB and SNCF. It is necessary to take into account the two pendants. With regard to the borrowing of EUR 1 billion, I have just heard in the previous question that they were pecadilles. A billion euros, and I heard we didn't invest much in the rail. I do not know whether another public authority in Belgium decides to invest EUR 1 billion in five or six years for a mobility infrastructure. The loan of EUR 1 billion for rail investments will mainly be spent for the Walloon Region on the finalisation of the RER, as we are asked to do. I understood that the ER was still important to the Region. Not everything will be dedicated to it. The panel members received the chart. You see the distribution. In the end, it will be the investment unit, in which the Regions are represented and where they have now been working for a year and a half, which will objective the different priorities from the funds available by Region, to choose what they are keen to see achieved in the coming years. Whether it costs a lot or not, it will be necessary to have this discussion within the investment unit. We have noted and studied the effect in terms of investment and in terms of future exploitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u91	Minister, you have answered my very specific question very comprehensively. I would say that there is a decisive element in the file that concerns me, that is the French part. The French have already allocated EUR 15 million to reopen this line. We are going to tell them today: "Dear French friends, you have 15 million euros ready to be invested in a re-opening of a line that will re-energize part of Walloon territory, certainly at the economic level but, we do not have 2-3 million euros to complete the missing kilometer". I'm sorry to say it, but we're pretty ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u92	It's the cell that chooses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u93	I know. These forecasts always scare me a little bit. I have not forgotten that initially, an investment of EUR 500 million was planned in Wallonia, the allocation of which was to be chosen by the Walloon authorities who did a lot of work, a selection and made priorities. And then they were told that there was nothing left of those 500 million euros. That is practically all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u94	I realized it was the RER. If the Walloon government makes a choice other than the RER, let us know!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u95	At first, we weren't on it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u96	If the Walloon government makes a choice other than the RER, let me know! I'm getting letters, arrests. There's still some cash left.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u97	Finally, when you announce a billion,... you're saying that once the RER is finished, there's nothing left for the rest. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u98	The table has been forwarded to all members of the committee. EUR 1.485 billion is invested, much of which is allocated to the RER and there is still a share to be allocated by the Investment Unit. Therefore, there are still amounts next to those allocated to the RSP. I invite you to ask for the note.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u99	I'll do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u100	Can we conclude because we still have some 30 questions on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u101	Mr President, Minister, we do not stay far from France, always on the same line. I invite you to come to Quiévrain for a walk to see the state of the station. Knowing your commitment to rural areas, I would like to draw your attention to the state of the Quiévrain train station, which is an important crossing point for students and commuters travelling to Mons and Brussels – perhaps one day in Valenciennes. Today it is limited to an old building poorly maintained, giving an image of a total let go. First abandoned, a container was placed next door for years with a counter. Today, the container is abandoned too. When you take the train, you're under a holed, unsecured preau. There is no physical presence. I know that SNCB has been studying for several years, in collaboration with the commune and local or regional partners, tracks to find a new assignment at the Quiévrain station. Several projects for the restoration and creation of SNCB-owned housing on the ground were mentioned, but without results. I'm talking about discussions that didn't date from yesterday. I have been a parliamentarian for ten years and it has been more than ten years that negotiations are under way for the reassignment of this station. Today, it comes to my mind that an investor would have responded to a call for tenders from SNCB but would not have received any feedback on the project he is proposing: the creation of a home for disabled people and a treatment and post-care clinic. If that were the case, this is, to say the least, a misunderstood situation. Minister, are you aware of the plan to rehabilitate the Quiévrain railway station as I have just mentioned? If so, what treatment is provided by SNCB and Infrabel? In view of the disrepair of the station, do you understand that it is important to give all the necessary attention to the projects presented by investors wishing to rehabilitate the site of this station?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u102	Mr Thiébaut, I have indeed become aware of the project. SNCB informs me that, to date, the reassignment procedure is still under negotiation with project promoters who have proposed the creation of a home for people with disabilities, a cure and aftercare clinic and a real estate project. On the other hand, it is my responsibility that other people have expressed an interest in the site. There are therefore some reassignment tracks from the Quiévrain station. I will ask SNCB to try to make it happen and not to let things go if the situation is such that you perceive it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u103	Minister, thank you. I think the mayor MR of Quiévrain will be able to confirm the situation. In any case, I hope that this will not last ten more years. I have spoken to you about such a long time, but I think it has been twenty years since the station, which is a huge building, was abandoned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u104	We're always on the same line, which obviously interests me. I'd like to talk to you now about the station of Boussu. I've already told many of your predecessors about this. So I'm very voluntary. The station of Boussu, like his colleague of Quiévrain, gives the image of a railway of another era. The building is completely closed, tagged, lifeless, soulless and repulsive. Here too, for several years, the municipal authorities with SNCB and Infrabel have been looking for solutions, in collaboration with local or regional partners, to find a new assignment at the Boussu station. While preserving its urban character and trying to maintain a waiting room, various projects have been mentioned, but without concrete results to date. You will understand, minister, that it is difficult to conceive of leaving stations, regardless of their level of attendance, in such a state. Do any contacts still exist with the municipal authorities to restore the building of the Boussu railway station? If so, what is the result of these discussions? Are there any initiatives taken by SNCB and Infrabel to attract potential investors? Are calls for tenders regularly published?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u105	Dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that several meetings have taken place to reach a verbal agreement for the takeover of the station of Boussu by the commune. The draft emphyteotic lease was transmitted on 2 June 2016 for the agreement of the communal council. SNCB is still waiting for him despite several reminders. Priority has been given to the municipality, as various services for travellers are included in the lease. SNCB states that it is only when a municipality is not interested in the takeover of a station building in service, with respect for SNCB's customers, that it is addressed to private investors with a published call for tenders. This is not the case here, since we are waiting for the concretisation by the Council of Boussu.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u106	What you may not have specified – because you suspect I have some contact with the commune of Boussu – is that there is a problem of agreement on the terms of the lease. I have a lot of practical cases in mind in relation to the future of unoccupied stations: often the railway operator is too greedy and asks for large sums for ruins, finally. The operation is interesting for SNCB, since it is taking over a building that no longer interests it and which it no longer wants to take care of, but it still wants us to continue to rent it. This is a logic that it would be good to break to limit rail cankers in the country. There's a job to do at your level. I will forward your response to the municipal authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u107	Minister, this is a question that I also asked your predecessor. The abolition of the Thalys connecting the stations of the Walloon dorsal (Liège, Namur and Mons) in Paris created a great disappointment among travellers, especially those coming from Mons-Borinage and the Centre. When asked several times about the possible return of the Thalys Wallon, you indicated that discussions have taken place on various structural tracks to restore the link. To date, unfortunately, problems of attendance and safety are always mentioned to justify the absence of a return of this line. However, like all the Walloon authorities and the population, you will recognise that the absence of a high-speed link between the Walloon Region and its neighbouring country constitutes a serious handicap. Convinced that you are so sensitive to the issues on this issue, I would like to stress, Minister, the importance of your commitment to allow Thalys to return to Wallonia. To date, are you taking initiatives on this issue? Are there any negotiations with Thalys officials to restore his return to Wallonia? If so, what is the fruit of these? Are there any leads on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u108	As I have already explained in my answer to the oral question put by your colleague Laurent Devin, the case concerning cross-border links with France has been the subject of special attention in the firm for several months. Since Thalys International is an autonomous railway operator, it decides its own offer according to its trainsets and the impact on the financial results of the contractual commitments entered into. The SNCB does not have high-speed trainsets. Even if it managed to rent such trains from SNCF, the cities of Liège and Namur could not be served because these French trainsets are not equipped with an ETCS version compatible with that currently installed on the Namur-Auvelais section. Therefore, with regard to high-speed service, the alternative currently offered to passengers by SNCB is via Brussels. Nevertheless, SNCB informs me that, in the context of future developments in the supply to 2020, it intends to analyse with its partner, SNCF, the relevance, potentials, technical feasibility and all the socio-economic aspects of future services, possibly new between France and Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u109	Mr Minister, thank you for these explanations, but the current offer for the people of my region is not satisfactory, for a very simple reason. We call for the restoration of the previous system. In the past, there was a Thalys who arrived in the morning at about 8:20 a.m. and another who returned from Paris at about 9 p.m. A user who took the Thalys in the morning at Mons joined Paris, Gare du Nord, an hour and a quarter later. Today you say that the solution is to go to Brussels. To go to Paris, the inhabitants of my region do not go to Brussels, they go to Valenciennes. The journey from Mons to Brussels lasts one hour and, with waiting times, the duration of the journey is doubled. It is therefore no longer very useful to take a high-speed train, while the transport time is comparable to a journey by car. The advantage of Thalys for the inhabitants of the Mons-Borinage region, the Centre and a large part of the Hainaut is completely erased by the absence of the passage on the Walloon dorsal. Nor is it necessary to benefit from high-speed trainsets on the dorsal because, from Mons, even without the high-speed line, Paris was linked in an hour and a quarter, which is an important asset. In addition, Mons will soon have a beautiful station that will no longer see international connections. That doesn't make much sense. Finally, frequenting is often referred to and, in this context, every time I borrowed this train, it was practically full. On the other hand, I also know that the Thalys from Ostend was empty. Has our Thalys been removed because Ostend's was empty and therefore the Walloon dorsal had to be removed as well? Is that the truth? I don't know, but that's what it says.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u110	I have a lot of questions but I have waited for you to take up your duties, to take your marks, to come with the problems that I have been putting to your predecessors for years, still without a solution, but I am putting them in your hands, trusting your expertise. So, Mons station. As you know, the construction site of the Mons railway station has had a lot of adventures. The suspensions of work were frequent and the criticisms expressed by the commuters, tired of the inconveniences caused by the delays, fueled the discussions. Today, however, it seems that the project is finally moving forward with some continuity. For about a month, the works have indeed resumed at the station site where new cranes have entered into operation, while in October 2016, as a reminder, the works had experienced an umpteenth stop. Eurogare, the prime contractor, was forced to launch a new call for applications to continue the work on the bridge. Too often, unfortunately, since the start of the construction site. Now, as things look good, I think it's useful to take stock of the situation, minister. Could you please tell me what is the status of the procedures for carrying out and proceeding with the work? Do new public procurement still need to be launched? If so, what aspects do they cover? Finally, and above all, could you give me a guideline on the next steps for the completion of the project and, possibly, a date for the reception of the new station in Mons?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u111	My colleague, on the works contracts for the Mons station and their status, the SNCB informs us of the following. The market for "large work, concrete and non-catenary railway infrastructure" is 95 per cent implemented and continues. The "catenary" market is 75% and continues. The "metal carpenters" market was interrupted due to the general failure of the successful tenderer. In November 2016, the contract for the completion of the bridge, foreper and stairway was awarded and work has resumed and is in progress. The procedure for awarding the contract for wharf shelters and awnings: a negotiated procedure with publicity is currently under way. The market "covers and facades" is in the process of being implemented. The market "mechanical stairs and elevators" was ordered in September 2016 and is in the process of being implemented. The market for "special techniques and lower deck casing coating" was approved by SNCB on 24 February 2017. The "second and final" market and the "first" market are at the stage of finalisation of the project studies. SNCB informs me that the objective is the commissioning of the station at the end of 2018. But my pragmatic nature remains predominant. Therefore, I am careful before I resume such a deadline. In the course of 2019, various completions will be carried out on the docks. Disassembly operations of the temporary station and accesses will be carried out, as will the layout of the approaches.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u112	Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u113	Mr Minister, there have been a lot of complaints recently about noise from a stationary freight train or train in Neerpelt. Every afternoon a heavy freight train comes back from a zinc factory in the Dutch Budel and that train is normally pulled by two diesel locomotives. In the station of Neerpelt, that train often has to wait before continuing its journey. The waiting period may be up to an hour or more. The locomotives are not shut down but keep running all the time. This not only causes noise for residents, but also results in energy waste and environmental pollution. Neighborhood residents have already been consulted by various authorities at their mayor's office and at the SNCB ombudsdienst, but for the time being without results. I have three specific questions for you. Firstly, are you aware of the problem of noise pollution caused by that stationary freight train at Neerpelt station? Secondly, how can it be explained that these locomotives will not be shut down as long as the train cannot continue for a long time? Finally, what potential solution do you see for the problem and what steps will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, your question concerns the 47617 train that runs between Antwerp and Budel, of which B Logistics is the operator. This train has a planned stop in Neerpelt from 12:53 to 13:43. However, on some days this train arrives too early on the Belgian railway network and has to wait in Neerpelt, in other words it has to wait longer before it can continue its journey. Infrabel lets me know that she has received no complaints about this through her Department of Information for Neighborhood residents. Through this service the locals can get in touch with Infrabel. They are available free of charge, 7 days on 7 and this between 7.00 and 10 p.m. Requests can also be sent by e-mail. In addition, noise complaints can also be submitted via a form that can easily be found on their website. Infrabel's Sound and Vibration Cell continuously investigates pragmatic solutions to reduce noise. This concerns adjustments to the infrastructure for reducing noise at source through rail pads, inter alia, rubber beams between transverse beams and rail, rail absorbers and acoustic grinding. In addition, the cell tracks the results of the monitoring stations where noise levels are measured.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u115	Minister, I am glad to hear that trains sometimes arrive too early in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u116	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u117	That's right. Apparently, the neighborhood residents have been following the wrong path for their complaint. I'll remind them of the channels you're giving up here. I also note that Infrabel, at least the cell that deals with it, is open to pragmatic solutions, which are then followed up. I believe that this is indeed an answer to the question of jointly seeking a pragmatic solution. As long as people are in consultation and feel the good will of Infrabel, that seems to me to be an acceptable proposal. So I'll reconnect this to the neighborhood. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u118	Mr President, earlier when I answered about punctuality, even if the authors are not there, I would like to point out that SNCB has today provided the official figures on punctuality. On domestic traffic, at global level, January 2016: 89.9%; January 2017: 90.7%. For insured correspondence that posed a problem in Mons in January 2016, that was 91.4%; in January 2017: 94.3%. So, an increase of 2.9%. For Charleroi-Sud, correspondence increased from 92.2% to 94.5%. It's official. There's a statement from SNCB. Finally, here are figures for punctuality on lines 96, 161 and 162. On line 96, in November 2016, punctuality was 82.2% and in January 2017 88.7%, an increase of 6.5%. This is the Mons line. A lady made a petition saying that it was no longer possible, but she told a journalist that it was much better. And Mr. Tabone recognized him, too. But it's not because it's a month that it's final. On line 161, the November 2016 punctuality was 77%, reaching 91% in January 2017, an increase of 13.3%. On line 162, south of Namur to Arlon, punctuality was 56.7% in November 2016 and, in January 2017, 79.8%, an improvement of 23.1%. When I gave figures earlier, these figures were much more global. This is the result of a communication from SNCB this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u119	These are additions to the questions put by Mr Flahaux and Mrs Poncelet on punctuality. I regret, however, that SNCB provides you with an answer which is being corrected today. The figures for January could have been given in an answer earlier. This aside.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u120	Mr.President, Minister, in 2015, the absenteeism rate was 5.32% at the SNCB compared to 4.98% the previous year, but perhaps new figures have just fallen. How do you explain this increase in absenteeism? What measures do you intend to take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u121	Mr President, Mr Devin, compared to 2014, the percentage of absenteeism actually increased at SNCB in 2015. This is in line with the upward trend in absenteeism observed throughout the public sector, according to the figures published by Medex and in the private sector, according to figures from Securex's white paper, as shown in the table of which I give you a copy in the appendix. With respect to the medical follow-up of absenteeism, there were no changes during the period 2015-2016. An analysis of absenteeism is currently under way within SNCB and a number of actions will be carried out on the basis of the results obtained, which will lead to short-term solutions as well as long-term structural solutions. So, at SNCB, from year to year, we have an increase of 0.34%, as you just said. For Medex, it is + 0.27% and for the private sector it is + 0.43%.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u122	Minister, thank you for that clarification. We all have the answer that it's in court. When will this land? An ongoing study may last one year, two years, three years. When did this study begin and when do you expect the results? It's not a trick question. If you don't know how to answer it, you tell me and I'll ask the question again later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u123	Perhaps you could ask the question on the sidelines of the hearing of SNCB officials scheduled for next week. I'd like to ask them the question of where they are. I want to look for the answer, but I don't have all the leverage from all the design offices, from all the contracts that have been awarded to SNCB. I apologise, but perhaps the question should also be asked next week. If they don't have the answer, come back to me and ask me what the timeline is, what the steps are, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u124	Mr Minister, you may recall how interested I was in your thinking about the Thalys Walloon, the Benelux line and the line that could link Brussels to Switzerland. Could you give me more information on the line linking Brussels, Antwerp, Roosendaal, Dordrecht-Rotterdam-Central, The Hague, Schiphol, Amsterdam-Central? What is his attendance rate? What are the budgetary means put on the table by Belgium and the Netherlands to ensure the link between Brussels and Amsterdam? You explained to me that the Thalys Walloon was in deficit. I am concerned about whether the above line is a beneficiary or a deficit and what amounts have been spent on it, in terms of investment, in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the history of this line, I refer you to the answer given to question No 1372 put by Mr Di Rupo. The service currently provided is similar to the situation of the former Benelux train, i.e. a relationship at commercial speed significantly lower than that of the Fyra running via line 12 and Roosendaal without reservation and with a dual function of internal public mission in Belgium and the Netherlands and an international trade mission. The occupancy rate varies by section and must be compared to the occupancy rate on domestic trains in Belgium, which is 26.2%. The average occupancy rate on the basis of sales is 42% at the border. This corresponds to the 2015 sales of SNCB plus DNS divided by the number of seats on trains. However, in periodic counts, it is not unusual to see an occupation representing 64% of capacity, for example between Rotterdam and Brussels. Between Brussels and Antwerp, as well as between Roosendaal and Amsterdam, there are also domestic travellers. The IC Brussels-Amsterdam is a train without reservation. As a result, many travellers choose to borrow it with low-cost transport tickets (less expensive than for Thalys) such as subscriptions, free journeys, Passes. In such cases, it is very difficult to make reliable counts on the precise "origin-destination" basis. For 2013, the operating result of SNCB was positive. In 2014, with the increase in the number of frequencies, the result became negative. In 2015, the operating deficit worsened further, but was strongly offset by the mechanism negotiated with NS and the Dutch State by which NS compensates for SNCB's loss if it exceeds 1.5 million per year for traffic on conventional lines. The increase in frequencies beyond 12 round-trips and the passage through high-speed lines, negotiated in the Samenwerkingsafspraak with the NS and the Dutch State in 2013, greatly increase the deficit of the service for SNCB. Fortunately, the negotiated SNCB deficit-limiting mechanism by compensation from NS reduces the impact on SNCB's account. Since 2013, and according to the agreements between NS and SNCB, with the agreement of the then Minister, the possible deficit to be borne by SNCB is capped at 1.5 million. This was the case in 2015 and 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u126	Minister, this is clearly the difference in treatment between Thalys Wallon and what links...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u127	Who negotiated the deal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u128	I'm not a historian. I'm focused on the facts. However, I would like to open the debate. Mr. Bellot, who decided to stop the Thalys Wallon? This is a very clear difference in treatment. The Netherlands wants to keep this line and is ready to pay compensation. Belgium claims to be able to bear 1.5 million losses. Moreover, in Wallonia, Belgium does not want to support anything and is not even ready to put money on the table to maintain the Thalys Wallon vis-à-vis the French partners. It is true that a profound change of mentality has taken place: a change of government, a change of mentality with two different regions! You have just shown us that Holland had a different attitude and that the different parties in Belgium were not treated in the same way. If Elio Di Rupo asked the question, the answer is very interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u129	I would remind you that the minister at the time who negotiated this was Mr. Magnette. The second thing: the difference with a conventional train to the Netherlands on two sections of inland traffic is that each one bears the deficit of its part. In addition, the SNCB covers no more than 1.5 million of the charge. Thalys is a private company. It should be noted that SNCF charges SNCB the cost of passing the train on the French network. When we offered them, in 2010, 2011 and 2012, the same agreement as the NS agreement, SNCF refused. They say: "If you pass on trains, you pay yourself the cost of passing your trains on the French network." With the Netherlands, it's different. It would be so much easier to have a mirror effect. I would like to do that. To remake Namur-Paris as the international classic train that existed before; that each company covers the burden of operating the train on its territory. For the link to the Netherlands, the Dutch are the applicants. For the link to France, the Belgians are the applicants. I have no worries to apply to the network between Namur and Paris the same system as with the Dutch railways. I'd be a happy man. The problem is that SNCF does not agree to cover the operating costs of a conventional train on the network on its territory. I'm ready to go back tomorrow to Mr. Pepy to ask him. Unfortunately, he doesn't want to do it right now. The deficit of the French railway is currently enormous.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u130	You can answer me 15 times that it was Mr Paul Magnette who negotiated this with the Netherlands. I'm not making him wrong. But if we have such an attitude, we do it for all three parts of our country. You explained to me that it is not possible to do with the French what we do with the Dutch. In this case, the history of this line is not closed. Because if we share the same objective, the reality of the Walloons is no longer that of the Flemish. And we don't treat one party like the other. You're going to tell me, "It's not my fault, it's SNCF's fault." But there is an unrelenting observation that one can travel from Flanders to the Netherlands, but that it is not possible to travel from Wallonia to France. You can explain to me what you want, it's the truth. There are internal sections in Wallonia, several, Liège, Namur, Charleroi, Mons, as there are others in Flanders, which I mentioned in my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u131	Minister, we're going to be able to do this slowly. I'm talking about SNCB's 2017 Transport Plan. The association of travellers Shuttles.be is concerned about the lack of transparency of the SNCB. In fact, despite various information meetings organized by the Advisory Committee for Railway Travellers (CCVF) on the 2017 Transport Plan, the association has at this stage only a general list of projects selected and not retained, even for the project which it has submitted as a "priority" concerning line 132 Charleroi-Couvin. In this regard, Minister, what are the projects selected and not selected in SNCB's 2017 Transportation Plan? What changes are planned for line 132 Charleroi-Couvin and line 108 Binche-Turnhout?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u132	Mr Devin, as answered last month to question 16113 on the changes envisaged under the Transport Plan on lines 96 and 108, the plan is based mainly on three development axes. In addition to the quantitative extension of the transport offer through the addition of trains up to 5%, SNCB has ensured a qualitative improvement in its transport plan by increasing as much as possible the commercial speed of its most important relationships in terms of passenger volume and has paid particular attention to the development of train and bus-train connections in several connecting nodes. As far as concrete projects are concerned, I refer you again to the road shows which will begin at the initiative of SNCB this month. Their aim is to communicate in detail the next changes in supply in terms of volume, commercial speed and correspondence. On 14 March, SNCB and Infrabel will come to the committee to explain the Transport Plan. The management contract is well advanced and should enter its finalisation phase, following Ms Dutordoir's entry into office. We have indeed waited for it to be in place to make the commitments it will then have to defend. As far as Infrabel is concerned, his company has just commissioned his management to negotiate the business plan and the management contract with my firm. We are far from succeeding with Infrabel, believe me!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u133	Mr President, it is true that Mrs Dutordoir was expected, but since the time that Mr Cornu had announced his departure! We agree on that. And if the minister tells me we're not ready to land, I won't ask him what the deadline is. We'll see what's going on. I will not go further in the development of my reply. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u134	Minister, can you give us more information about the management contract? You told me about the road shows. Have dates already been communicated to each other?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u135	I think it starts on the 20th. I understand that the governors have been informed of this. I don't know the schedule, but they're coming to introduce you to the Transport Plan next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u136	Will they present the management contract at the same time? As long as you do, you might as well save each other's energy. So we'll have the presentation next week. For the management contract, Minister, can we have any information on this? I have heard part of your answer to my colleague Cheron. We were talking about deadlines. You're gonna tell me it's in class. Has a deadline been set? Could you give it to us? What is the status of the negotiations? In short, what is your timetable for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u137	I don't have a particular calendar. You should know that since June 2016, the government's major choices have been made and communicated to both companies. I expect the two companies and the two boards of directors to send me the documents. I have those of SNCB, but since the logic is that all the Infrabel and SNCB documents should be presented simultaneously, since management contracts in particular have a mirror effect and have exactly the same structure, it would not be logical to present one without the other. I reminded each other of our expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u138	Mr Minister, simply, you are acting transparently and you have already told us that, but time is passing. You filed the documents in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u139	I have tabled government choices, allocation of endowments, distribution of infrastructure fees. All major choices were made at the end of June, early July. They had all the information, so I expect the management and boards of an independent company to send me the necessary documents. I have everything on SNCB, point!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u140	Mr President, it is time for a pregnancy, nine months! Today, we announced a happy event. I was in a meeting this morning with Mrs Galant, whom I congratulated, by the way. I hope that, in the near future, we will have good proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u141	Minister, on June 5, a rail collision between a freight train and a passenger train resulted in the death of three people in Saint-Georges-sur-Meuse. The collision could have been avoided if the signal had been equipped with an emergency shutdown system such as TBL1+ or ETCS. What is the evolution in the installation of TBL1+ and d的ETCS since this accident?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u142	As regards infrastructure, as announced at the various security hearings held in this meeting, the TBL1+ programme was completed by Infrabel. This system now equips all the railway nodes. In accordance with the commitments made before the Infrastructure Commission, the installation of ETCS continues according to the masterplan. As of 1 January 2017, 20% of the main tracks, or 1,264 kilometres, were equipped. Infrabel continues to install the system. We sometimes talk about more than 1,500 kilometres. The 1,264 km concern the inland network, excluding LG 1, 2 and 3, excluding TGV lines. As regards rolling stock, the entire SNCB fleet assigned to public service missions has been equipped with TBL1+ since the end of 2013. As of June 2016, 29% of the SNCB fleet was equipped with activated ETCS; since January 2017, 33% of the SNCB fleet is equipped with activated ETCS. The aim of the masterplan is to equip the entire SNCB fleet for public service missions by the end of 2023 with ETCS.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u143	Thank you, Minister. Is it satisfactory that this was done in 2023? I could question you later if you don't want to answer me now. Do you consider this to be a normal time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u144	I think the Buizingen recommendations follow-up committee regularly checks whether the two companies are following the masterplan schedule. You're doing these auditions, I'm not taking part. I think they explained why it took time. There are questions of equipment, supply, equipment... I don't have a prepared answer but I understand that they indicated that, in terms of the deployment of ETCS, it was not possible to move faster, given the contracts, the markets and the technical and operational constraints. But I do not know who is on the Monitoring Committee. I think this is the committee as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u145	The Monitoring Committee no longer exists. A follow-up meeting is normally held in this committee from time to time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u146	Yes, but it was your commission that established itself as a monitoring committee by questioning Infrabel and SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u147	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u148	I guess you're making the point once a year. You should ask them to tell you where they are on the deployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u149	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I note this inquiry to be made in the follow-up committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u150	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Inez De Coninck's 16925 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u151	Minister, Infrabel owns hundreds of railway tunnels and rail bridges. It concerns a variety of infrastructures, to which Infrabel always refers as "artificial works'. However, it has to be noted that many bridges and tunnels look far from artistic. In fact, some structures are aesthetically annoying and can put a brake on urban development in the vicinity. Relatively modest interventions make it possible to transform such infrastructures into an added value for the neighborhood: dressing up with art, information carriers, green walls. Such things can have a totally different effect. In the past, service-providing network companies have already worked together with municipal authorities to re-dress visually disturbing infrastructures with a view to urban development. An example of this is the water tower of Gentbrugge along the E17. I come to my specific questions. Does Infrabel have a concrete view on the visual revaluation of old bridges and tunnels? If so, in which municipalities has this possibly already resulted in results? Is Infrabel willing to cooperate with the cities and municipalities for the purpose of visual revaluation by means of decoration or painting? Under what conditions could this be possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u152	Dear colleague, Infrabel aims to pay attention to the aesthetic aspect of the bridge or tunnel in addition to the structural aspect of maintenance work on railway bridges. Let me give you some examples of achievements and designs. Infrabel is always willing to engage in dialogue with cities and municipalities to explore cooperation in local initiatives. The examples I give you show that Infrabel has already worked with public authorities and associations in various projects to provide bridges and tunnels with aesthetic decoration. In the case of cooperation, agreements are required on the installation, maintenance and demolition or removal of the clothing. In addition, the establishment shall not constitute an obstacle to the management, maintenance and repair of the bridge or tunnel. After removal, the construction must be restored to its original condition. At the same time, the safety regulations must be observed in the vicinity of tracks and the operation must not be compromised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u153	Mr. Secretary, it is clear. I would also like to thank you for the specific examples. It is clear that society is open to consultation in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u154	Colleagues, let me take a look at the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u155	In that case, Mr President, I will have my questions translated and I will take the answers with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u156	The following questions are all converted into written questions: President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Question No 169, by Mr Van den Bergh: Question No 16970, by Mrs De Coninck: Question No 16990, by Mr Van Hecke: Question No 160, by Mr Gilkinet: Question No 170, by Mr Van den Bergh: Question No 170, by Mr Van Hees: Question No 170, by Mr Raskin: Question No 170, by Mr Gilkinet: Question No 170, by Mr Gilkinet: Question No 170, by Mr Van den Bergh Mr Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u157	Mr President, Minister, I am sorry that I was absent earlier, but I was talking about other planes, the fighter planes on which the majority have just made a decision. That is why I was absent, and I thank the Chair for having put my question forward. Mr Minister, the decision of the government of the Brussels-Capital Region to remove the tolerance for finding infringements of the Order of 27 May 1999 on the control of noise generated by air traffic has already been the subject of numerous reactions, both in and outside the Chamber. These regional standards have been systematically validated by the country's highest legal bodies, including European ones. For the past three weeks, Brussels Airport, airlines and parties of the federal majority have shamefully stirred up the spectre of job losses. Alarmist figures have been put forward by each other, without anyone being able to verify their veracity, I have asked you a written question on this subject. Blackmail on the job is, for me, indecent. It is known that infringements of Brussels noise standards are concentrated mainly on a few roads (the Canal and the Delta road, roads used mainly by large freight carriers) and elsewhere in Brussels during the 6 a.m.-7 a.m. hour. Extending the night until 7 a.m., as Ecolo and Groen demand, as well as 14 other community associations since yesterday, would solve a great deal of political and legal problems. If you do not want to move towards this environmental night for all air routes, an environmental night applied to air routes flying over areas where the majority of infringements are found in Brussels would solve in the short term the legal problem you are currently facing. In addition, Article 34 of the licence granted to Brussels Airport Company explicitly states that "the holder shall respect and enforce, in the course of its operation at Brussels-National Airport, the acoustic standards established by the Brussels-Capital Region and the Flemish Region, after consultation with the Federal State". Brussels Airport therefore does not comply with the terms of its own operating licence. Hence, minister, my four questions. Could you tell me the results achieved by the Consultation Committee which met on February 19, 2017? The Prime Minister responded in plenary two weeks ago. What were your responses to the compromise proposal put forward on 16 February 2017 by the Brussels government? What operating restrictions do you intend to take in the long term to comply with Brussels noise standards and possible and legitimate future Flemish noise standards? The Flemish Region has noise standards for all kinds of activities but not at this stage for aircraft. Did you remind Brussels Airport that it does not comply with section 34 of its operating licence? What steps have you taken to ensure that it is respected? My second question is a very recent issue, since very recently, the mayor MR of Wezembeek-Oppem, Frédéric Petit, wrote to you to tell you how urgent it is, according to him, to equip the 07L runway of Brussels Airport with a PBN landing procedure (Performance Based Navigation). It will be recalled that in the spring of 2016, following written questions that I asked you, the Brussels people learned that Minister Galant had initially asked Belgocontrol to publish an AIP amendment, making this track 07L permanently operational. You corrected the shot later by requiring Belgocontrol to publish an AIP Sup. This temporary instruction allowed the intensification of the use of this air route using Runway 07L for the time of the work on Runway 01/19 only. Thus, the implementation of the PBN procedure on Runway 07L combined with your AIP Sup made landings on this runway technically possible at all times. This caused for a few months of summer a very intensive and unprecedented overflight of more than 300 000 Brussels from the north-west and Flemish Brabanons from the northern periphery. In a falsely naive way, Mr. Petit points out to you that in fact "the PBN had already been used in 2016 for approaches to Runway 07L during maintenance work on Runway 01/19. The system had been positively evaluated and can therefore be applied." As a matter of fact, Belgocontrol made it clear that to do so, he only had to get your green light. In fact, your party colleague asks you to republish an AIP amendment, the same one that you abolished in March 2016 when you came as Minister of Mobility. Minister, do you intend to respond positively to the request of the mayor of Wezembeek and therefore ask Belgocontrol to publish shortly an AIP amendment, creating a new Route Bellot, flying over more than 300 000 Brussels? If so, when? Is an increase in the use of Runway 07L, now equipped with the PBN system, envisaged as part of the ongoing drafting of the Vliegwet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u158	Dear colleague, on 21 February 2017, the Flemish Community introduced a second conflict of interest on the basis of Brussels noise standards. Although the Brussels-Capital Region challenges the validity of this conflict of interest, the Brussels government has decided that no fines will be levied within 60 days of this new conflict of interest. A meeting between advisors and an interdepartmental meeting took place before the expiry of the 60-day period of the first conflict of interest. Following the consultation committee of 20 February, which concluded without agreement between the parties, and the new conflict of interest triggered, the Prime Minister met with the Ministers-Presidents and the competent Ministers of the Regions in my presence on 23 February. These meetings were held in a calm and constructive atmosphere. At that meeting, it was decided to set up working groups on certain technical elements and on the requests of the different regions according to an agreed agenda and content between all parties. At present, three meetings have already been held. These working groups will meet on a regular basis over the next two weeks until the next Consultation Committee. These working groups will bring together members of my firm, members of the relevant regional cabinets, representatives of the federal and regional administrations, as well as several airport, economic, social and other actors. These meetings will allow for an in-depth examination of the various aspects of the applications and an attempt to find a point of convergence. During this period, ministers are expected to meet to assess progress. A final meeting will be scheduled by the Prime Minister, in the same format as on February 23, to draw the conclusions of this first round of consultations. At the level of the federal government, I am continuing my work towards a comprehensive, structural and equitable solution that will be coordinated with all stakeholders, including residents and, of course, all associations. With regard to the PBN system, international standards will require us in the medium term to equip all the tracks of this system. However, today I cannot comment on this or that track, which would render the principle of fair consultation meaningless. I would point out that the solution must be comprehensive and cannot be confined to specific, bilateral actions, which are constantly called into question and which are detrimental to the coherence of such a dossier. I would add, Mr Hellings, that I receive a lot of proposals, a lot of letters, a lot of e-mails: very short, very long, well-founded, less well-founded. Be assured that we all read them. We try to understand all the suggestions, sometimes the false ones, sometimes the real ones. I can assure you of the loyalty with which I want to act in a balanced manner, by listening to all the speakers, all the interlocutors and, whenever possible, by meeting with them. Contrary to some information that circulated, when associations asked to meet with us, when airport operators did the same, as well as political representatives, my collaborators in the firm or myself, met them. Now we are in the consultation phase on the regional requests that have been made recently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u159	Minister, thank you for your answers. First of all, I will repeat what I said to the Prime Minister, in your presence in plenary session, it is positive to see the main interlocutors talking about the Regions and the federal government. The Vliegwet you are working on will undoubtedly have an impact on the environmental skills exercised by the Regions. I strongly encourage you before it is presented to the government and a fortiori to Parliament, to have a cooperation agreement between the Regions, which have the environmental competence, and the Federal State to articulate the different competences between them. If you present the Vliegwet without a cooperation agreement with the Regions, this project is likely to be challenged before the Constitutional Court by the Regions because you know, like me, that this Vliegwet contains in Annex 1 air routes which are concrete and which will have an impact on the regional competences. With regard to the potential intensification of the use of Runway 07, of course, international standards oblige us to use, in a State that respects the principles of safety and security, the safest guiding systems. They do so that Runway 07 is used as a last resort and has always been considered in this way to land. If you had the wrong idea to publish an AIP amendment that would allow this track to be used as much as the others, in the name of the fact that it would now have a technological tool that would allow it to be used at all times, you will move the nuisances of 60,000 people who illegitimately suffer these nuisances out of another 300,000 people. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these people have already experienced these nuisances this summer and have already mobilized. It is enough to visit social networks, they have already mobilized and they are worried. Under the Wathelet Plan, the 400,000 Brusselsers who were flown overnight had never been. And they reacted. Today, 300,000 northwestern Brusselsers could be flown over by landings if runway 07 was intensified. They are already mobilized because they have already experienced this nuisance. It could be catastrophic for your reputation of seeing a Bellot Road come into being.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u160	I don't know where you got that information from! Have you noticed any act, a fact on my part, on the part of the federal state? The PBN is an obligation. To be part of the scheme of preferential tracks, it is not the PBN, it is not the VOR that are necessary, it needs an ILS. Runway 07L does not have an ILS system. I am part of a dynamic of consultation, where ambition and vision are needed. A structural solution will only be found if all the parties around the table, political parties, regional institutions, associations of residents contribute to its search. My method is not that of my predecessors. I tried to understand why they had encountered difficulties. Some were even motivated by good intentions. I dare hope so. If these methods have not worked, we must change ways. I would like to seek a form of consensus, of accession. Together we will find a solution. If we fail, we will fail together. Yet these are differences of view on all levels: no layer of speakers can say that we have a common view on this issue. None! We can show you the evidence and explain it to you. Sometimes, in general terms, a form of agreement appears, but it is in detail, that the devil hides. Have you observed a common point of view between employers and trade unions in political families?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u161	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u162	Yes, you may be at home, but in all the other parties, that is not the case. Look at what is happening between the Flemish government and Brussels, within the political families. At the legal level, no court of first instance adopts the same position. There is also the separation of powers, which I respect. The path of consultation is the only way to find a structural solution and to satisfy the legitimate demand of many overlying residents, who feel that they are too much, and the legitimate demands of those who live there, who work and want to keep their activities. This balance is delicate. It is in this research that I register. The path is not easy. I don't need to create roads in Brussels. They all already bear the names of political figures. I hear people today contesting the roads they've created. I have memory. I like to read and document: they all have the name of a political figure contested today. Our political action must be oriented towards a solution. I'm looking for this solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u163	Minister, you will never have heard me question your goodwill. I've never made you a trial of intent. We agree on that. There is a common point of view. Yesterday, 14 Dutch- and French-speaking associations shared a common view of the night. The environmental night has the advantage of reducing the nuisance at the source without shifting the nuisance from one place to another, populated or not. The two reasons for concern that justified my question were first that your predecessor had taken the regulatory steps to publish a road, the 07 on a permanent basis. Not temporary. Fortunately, you corrected the shot and I am the first to recognize it. And my second reason for concern was that the mayor of Wezenbeek-Oppem of your party, Mr. Petit, wrote to you to encourage you to use Runway 07 more valiantly and to take the necessary steps, namely the publication of a permanent AIP amendment for the intensification of the use of this track. And it is legitimate that, as a Member of Parliament for Brussels, I should like to refer to the legitimate fears of 300 000 Brussels nationals who are potentially overrun. I will conclude by wishing you good courage in resolving this situation. You have not inherited an easy file and we will always be at your side if you make the logical decisions that are necessary. The first of these is, of course, the environmental night that the Greens, Flemish and Francophones call for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic614x.u164	Questions Nos 16936 and 16937 by Mrs Caprasse are converted into written questions.
