ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u1	Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou has given birth and rightly asks that her questions Nos. 18109, 18229 and 18388 be turned into written questions, since she will be absent for a little while. Ms. Nahima Lanjri and Mr. Egbert Lachaert are stuck in traffic jams. We will therefore start with the members present. We will postpone questions from colleagues who will arrive too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, on the occasion of a communication, your predecessor, Mrs Elke Sleurs, announced that it was realistic "to consider that every day a hundred women, men or children are victims of rape". While the official figures refer to eight cases per day on average, its estimate would be more in line with reality, since the vast majority of victims would remain in the shadows and would not file complaints. In the face of this terrible reality, the Government must maximize its efforts to punish the perpetrators and support all victims in parallel. In this context, it is also important to strengthen public information and awareness-raising measures, in particular to address negative attitudes and to deconstruct stereotypes. Also, it was with great satisfaction that I learned of the launch, on the occasion of Valentine's Day, of a vast campaign entitled "100 a day", symbolized by a broken rose. Among other things, it aims to encourage victims to break the silence and denounce the facts they have suffered. I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, a few questions on the subject. Could you outline the main objectives of this campaign? What exactly are the measures that have been put in place and their timetable? What actions, both in traditional media, social networks and public signage, have been programmed? What synergies have been put in place with the voluntary sector? Finally, in terms of assistance to victims, have any new measures been planned, particularly in synergy with the Community authorities? Thank you, Secretary of State, for all the answers you can give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u3	Mr Calomne, thank you for your question. At the time of its launch, the campaign against sexual violence of 14 February this year had the following objectives: raising awareness among the general public of the problem of highlighting the parameter according to which sexual violence is often caused by known persons, a relationship or a former partner, and increasing the propensity to report assaults. To broadcast this campaign, the following channels were used: - sending broken roses to the press, a press conference, a video showing a woman in a cage with a broken rose; - the creation of new pages in social media such as Facebook and Twitter; -an advertising campaign, on Valentine's Day, expressing a message of public utility; - a large poster and an article in the Metro. As you know, a campaign must always be accompanied by political measures to ensure a more effective reception of victims of sexual violence, so in October I will launch the pilot project involving the opening of three multidisciplinary centres for the reception of victims of sexual violence: in Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders. These centres will bring together police, judicial, medical and psychosocial support services for victims in an existing hospital. In this pilot project, we will also work with the current state services through an effective redirection system. All relevant ministers at the federal and federal levels are therefore aware of the project. The aim is to extend this pilot phase to one centre per province where victims of sexual violence can find shelter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u4	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. While it is important to raise awareness among victims so that they can make a complaint and talk about what they have suffered and endured, concrete measures are needed to accompany them. We will follow the development of these multidisciplinary centres that you set up I thank you for this initiative, because I think it is important to take concrete action in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, this is an opportunity to recall that when you come to present your policy note for 2018, i.e. in October or November, the various Ministers and Secretaries of State will be reminded that this will also be the time to take stock of the resolutions that have been adopted. One of them was the fight against violence against women. The multidisciplinary centres were among the elements we had worked on, especially with you when you were a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, welcome to your first little Question Time. Recently we read a destructive analysis by two experts on poverty, in particular Wim Van Lancker and Ive Marx. They make firewood out of the objectives of child poverty of your Flemish colleague, Minister Homans, because, as the experts say, those objectives are entirely utopian. Flanders wants to reduce the number of children from a family living below the poverty line from 150 000 in 2015 to 60 000 in 2020. According to the experts, the government is not doing anything to tackle poverty in a structural way. They add that many cases are federally regulated, such as social security and benefits, and that reducing the figures on child poverty is therefore absolutely not Flemish competence alone, but that federal policy has to be quite consistent with that. I would therefore like to ask you for an update, Madam Secretary of State. Have you discussed this with your Flemish colleague? If so, has that worked out yet? If not, when are you planning this meeting? What is your response to the comments of both poverty experts? Do you agree that much more can be done about social security? What will you do in concrete terms? You have already listed a number of issues in your policy paper. How's that going?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u7	Mrs Jiroflée, thank you for your question. I read all the opinion papers that poverty experts write, whether in newspapers or not. So I also read the piece by Wim Van Lancker and Ive Marx with great interest. With a number of poverty experts, I have had regular consultations, because they are experts and the more know-how I get from them, the better. Prior to that, the policy of combating poverty of the competent Flemish minister is her responsibility and it is not for me as the Federal Secretary of State to make statements about it. I can tell you that since my appointment as Secretary of State, there has been a consultation between the cabinet of the Flemish Minister responsible for the fight against poverty and my cabinet. The main point that has been discussed is, as I have repeatedly said in committee, the absence of an inter-ministerial conference. An ad hoc consultation between federal and Flemish policy leaders on poverty is of course good and useful, but structural consultation with all relevant ministers in the framework of a formal inter-ministerial conference is better. That is why, in response to the comments made by a number of Members of Parliament in the committee when discussing my policy statement on the absence of an inter-ministerial conference, on 5 May I kindly asked the Minister chairing the Inter-Ministerial Conference to convene them. The Presidency rests with the German-speaking Community, with Minister Antoniadis. To date I have not received an answer and I therefore sent a letter to Minister Antoniadis last week to remind him of my earlier question. In my opinion, we should meet as soon as possible. Finally, important levers can clearly be used at federal level in the context of poverty reduction in general and in children. What I want and will do in practice, I have explained in detail when discussing the policy statement. As federal secretary of state and coordinating policy for poverty reduction, I will focus in particular on horizontal and vertical poverty policies. Horizontally, the government's focus remains on activation and increasing social minima. Vertically, I will take priority initiatives to tackle poverty in single parents and therefore in children. At the moment, my cabinet and I are preparing the Super-Minister's Council, which the Prime Minister has announced, specifically with regard to the fight against poverty. I will come up with a number of proposals on activation and social minima, in particular how we can increase them over the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased that you have already made efforts to extend the Inter-Ministerial Conference. I think that's very necessary. I think your predecessor had too little consultation with the other ministers. As far as social security is concerned, you say we'll have to wait for the Superministry Council. I've been looking forward to that for a very long time. We found your wordings in your policy letter on this attenuation of what was in the coalition agreement. You used much more cautious words. I hope that these super-Ministers' Councils will be followed up, in the sense that there will be a concrete plan with a clear timing. We're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament 17882 by Mrs Jadin is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, we read in the press, which has now been confirmed by various other channels, that two large companies in our country, Engie and ING, have found a convenient way to circumvent this government's policy. Over time, we have taken all kinds of measures to keep people active longer, to keep them longer on the labour market, to phase out bridge pensions. A creative way has now been found to make these 53-year-olds and 55-year-olds inactive, which we naturally regret. We are offering a discharge package which will put people at home until their retirement and give the signal that they will no longer work and remain inactive. At first I thought that if a company wants to bear those costs, because that costs a lot of money, so far, but when I thought more deeply about it, I really didn't like the signal that it gives to society. In this way we continue to maintain that the elderly have been written off for us from that age of 53 or 55. That way, that culture stays in it. My question then is whether this does not create legal problems. On the one hand, a 55-year-old person receives a hugely advantageous package, allowing him to stay at home until retirement. On the other hand, a person who has the accident of being born a month later will receive an ordinary dismissal allowance. That is a huge discrepancy between the categories of staff on the basis of age. Age is included in our anti-discrimination law as a criterion in which one cannot unauthorizedly make a disproportionate distinction. I also put a question to the Minister for Employment. He hasn't answered me yet. You're faster on the committee. Madam Secretary of State, how do you see that? How do you feel about this? Do you see any possible age discrimination in both cases? It's in 53 and 55 years. Does Unia, who is very active in all kinds of domains, perhaps have time and space to investigate this and possibly take action?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u11	Mr Lachaert, you know that as a Member of Parliament I said in committee with you that 50-plussers should not be put aside. They are vital enough and we cannot just write them off. We have to put them to work. The coalition agreement contains a number of proposals. I am thinking, for example, of the reform of seniority certificates. After all, we must do everything we can to put those 50 or 55-plussers to work. As far as your question on possible age discrimination is concerned, I would like to say that as a member of the executive authority I find it difficult to conduct this investigation myself, let alone make an assessment in an individual case. I believe that this is the jurisdiction of the courts. However, you are correct in your analysis that Unia can also carry out such investigations. I can inform you that Unia has opened a file on ING on the basis of a notification. The file is currently under investigation. It is therefore not possible at present to give more information on this because the investigation is still ongoing. As Secretary of State responsible for discrimination, I can formally inform you that age discrimination is the largest form of discrimination in our labour market. Unfortunately, this phenomenon is under-exposed to the other forms of discrimination. As the competent Secretary of State, my focus will be on that age discrimination over the next two years. You can therefore expect a number of proposals. It may also be a question of sending the message to our employers on a campaign basis that we should not write off 50- or 55-plussers. I will therefore make a strong commitment to tackling age discrimination, but also in the government agreement there are measures that the government urgently needs to take to ensure that we do not leave those people to their fate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, at least I am pleased that Unia is making time for an investigation, because, as you yourself say, there are problems in our labour market especially among young people, the elderly and those with opportunities. There is still a lot of work to be done, especially with the elderly. With this kind of proposal, we continue to incorporate this culture that older people have been written off. We really need to get rid of that. The age criterion is literally in the anti-discrimination law. I hope that further action will follow. I'm glad to hear you're going to bet on it. I also put a question to the Minister for Employment. He will be able to answer them, because we can indeed discuss a number of measures which are contained in the coalition agreement and which have not yet been implemented. You can therefore count on our support for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u13	Madam President, I would like to ask my question, but I do not know whether Mrs Uyttersprot is still coming or whether she has apologized. After all, this is a combined question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u14	I don't know either. Too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u15	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, at the plenary session of 11 May 2017, Ms Lahaye-Battheu asked your colleague, Minister Van Overtveldt, a question about the Alimony Claims Office. She said that DAVO's offices are easily accessible to all women. The Minister confirmed that. Madam Secretary of State, that is absolutely untrue. In the past, the DAVO enjoyed too little reputation, was even completely unknown to the general public and was far too inaccessible to vulnerable women. You will agree with me that, in the vast majority of cases, it is about vulnerable women who are particularly dependent on child support money and for whom this monthly contribution is absolutely not an unnecessary luxury. After a previous decrease from 30 offices to 23 offices, it appears that from September 2017 only 11 contact points will remain, one point per province. This only makes the situation of accessibility worse for these vulnerable and often financially deprived women. I am therefore asking a lot of questions about the closure of the DAVO offices. I know that this debate has been going on for a long time. Will you take alternative measures so that single-parent families can also contact other organisations and institutions to claim their alimony? I understand that the OCMW's are being rethought. Is that right? How are the plans coming along? What's the status? On the other hand, is it only one DAVO office per province? Are you planning to take action to increase the reputation of the DAVO, so that all single-parent families are aware of their rights? I have asked that question several times to your predecessor, but always without results. Will you take any other measures to guarantee single-parent families that they will be helped in obtaining their monthly alimony?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u16	Madam President, if I am not mistaken, this was a joint question. Perhaps I should say first that the DAVO falls within the competence of my colleague, Minister Van Overtveldt. However, I do not like to open umbrellas, especially since I am also a coordinating secretary of state for the fight against poverty. Over the past few months and weeks, I have discussed this dossier several times, and I know that it is a real problem. The latest EU-SILC figures again show that single parents, especially mothers, are at far too high a risk of poverty in this country. The figures are known and I will not repeat them. It goes without saying that a break-up or divorce is one of the main causes of poverty among single parents. I myself reminded you once again when I visited the MIRIAM project in Leuven in March. Almost all the mommies there were talking about the ex-partner or ex-husband who paid no or too little alimony, with the result that they were all alone in raising their child or children, not least financially. That is, of course, unacceptable. If there are children, both parents are always responsible and have to take responsibility. That is precisely why the DAVO was founded in 2003 in the bosom of the FPS Finance. If a monthly maintenance is not paid, the creditor may submit an application to the DAVO. The DAVO therefore takes action to claim monthly alimony from the creditor. The DAVO may also pay advances on maintenance to the creditor if the creditor cannot honour his obligations. Optimizing the functioning of the DAVO, especially with the staggering poverty rates of single parents in mind, remains an important focus for the government. As you know, the implementation of the Third Federal Action Plan on Combating Poverty is not only one of my absolute priorities as the competent Secretary of State, but also one of the government's 25 priorities. In this plan, the Minister of Finance and I, in the context of the fight against poverty, take formal commitments to take initiatives to improve the functioning of the DAVO, with the results of a sensitive increase in digital accessibility and a deepening of cooperation with local OMCWs. Finally, I can assure you that optimising the functioning and awareness of the DAVO will also be a theme at the forthcoming Council of Ministers on the fight against poverty. To answer your question in concrete terms, in addition to the 11 info centres, the OCMWFs can already participate in the intake of the files today, including the granting or renewal of the advances. They may use electronic forms available on the website of the DAVO and the FPS Finance. The DAVO also organised an information session on these electronic forms for the OCMWFs on 31 January. The 11 information centres are responsible for contacts with the maintenance beneficiaries. They will assist them in submitting an application for compensation or advance payments. This application may be submitted by electronic means for those entitled to benefit. The DAVO can thus concentrate on the recovery of maintenance fees and arrears. With regard to the direct collection of maintenance contributions due, I can inform you that it is possible today via payroll, after intervention by the court, if the creditor has regular monthly income. I am currently looking with my colleague Johan Van Overtveldt at the possibility of simplifying the system of direct collections, because DAVO was established in 2003, but the budget outsourced by the DAVO is almost tenfold. So we need to see whether the people involved are often talking about men who may be able to, but do not want to, pay. In these cases, we will just have to act a little more stringently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased that you acknowledge that there is a problem in reality. I see Mr Van Overtveldt looking at everything as if it were nothing, but that is not the case. I myself, along with a number of fellow Members, am on the evaluation committee. I note that due to the competence of the Minister of Finance, the emphasis is very often placed on the collection of arrears of money by men. I fully agree that this must be done, but I note in committee that the emphasis is placed on this. It seems to be forgotten that the DAVO has been set up to help people and, mostly, to help women who are entitled to alimony. They focus entirely on a correct financial picture. I fully agree that the picture should be correct and that additional efforts should be made to collect it, but the service is currently far too inaccessible for those who need it and for whom the DAVO has been set up, because it is covered by an ordinary financial service. Of course, the OCMWFs will refer those who knock on their door; that is the work of the OCMWFs and most do it very well. However, I believe that a much more accessible point of contact should be considered. Women must be made much more aware of the need to make them aware of their right to this aid and to be entitled to that money. One must help them to achieve that. I insist that the threshold is far too high in relation to that aspect of the system. You're referring to the Supreme Council of Ministers. Well, I hope that the problem there will be addressed. I am already in happy expectation of the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u18	Have you ever given a date for this super Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u19	Originally, 10 June and 8 July were proposed, but these dates are being revised. I haven't been briefed on the exact date yet. We are following it, but at the moment the date of the Super-Minister's Council has not been communicated to us. I look forward to it, just like you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u20	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, my question dates back to January, i.e. six months ago, but it will only now be dealt with by the exchange of State Secretary. In January, the Group of Ten met and concluded an interprofessional agreement for 2017-2018. One of the elements of that agreement concerns the distribution of the welfare envelope that was established. Over a period of two years, 2017-2018, it will amount to an additional EUR 600 million to further increase the benefits that have already been raised in the past. In doing so, the social partners have given priority to raising the benefits farthest from the poverty threshold. For example, income replacement for people with disabilities was brought to the level of living wage, which had since been raised by 6%. The premium received for thematic leave was also raised significantly for single people with children, by 38%. In addition, with regard to the raising of the minimum rates of unemployment, among other things, the unemployment benefit, the SWT and the occupational integration allowance, the emphasis was placed on the heads of the family. We assume that the government will take over the IPA, which is in full swing. In this context, I have a number of additional questions. Taking into account the decision of the Group of Ten, what benefits still do not reach the level of the European poverty threshold? What further efforts should be made to effectively reach the European poverty threshold for each of these benefits? Finally, what steps do you, as Secretary of State, intend to take to ensure that the benefits that are currently below the poverty line increase to that poverty line?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u21	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, thank you for your question. It is a question that indeed dates back to 31 January and was addressed to my predecessor. We discussed this in the discussion of the policy statement, but I certainly want answers to your question. The federal government has indeed decided to fully implement the interprofessional agreement. This will continue the policy of this government on the substantial increase in social minima towards the European poverty line. If we do not include indexation or compensation for non-indexation, both the IVT and the living wage have been increased by 4.9 % since the beginning of this legislature, including the achievements of the new IPA. Since the beginning of the legislature, the IVT and the annual living wage have been 600 euros higher for cohabitants, 900 euros higher for single people and 1 200 euros for family heads. In total, since the start of this government, by September 2017 +9 % for both the IVT and the living wage, including indexations. In the implementation of IPA, the government will make available a budget of EUR 169.9 million and EUR 506.8 million respectively for welfare adjustments in 2017 and 2018. These budgets focus on the target group with the highest risk of poverty, without increasing inactivity and unemployment traps. An important part of the implementation of IPA is to increase the minimum benefits. These will generally increase by 1.7 % over the period 2017 and 2018. With increasing social minima and a policy of job creation in the private sector, this government continues to work on a structural basis to combat poverty. We will continue to work in the future and in accordance with the government agreement on the gradual increase of all social minimums up to the level of the European risk of poverty. The social benefits associated with some social benefits will be included in comparison to the European risk of poverty. I come to a number of specific questions. Today we have not yet achieved the objectives. The social minimums are not at the level of the European poverty line. There is still a great deal of work to be done in this respect and a great deal of work still needs to be done. How hard these efforts are cannot be calculated clearly, as the European poverty line is a moving target and the social benefits must also be taken into account. However, the latter is not an easy story, as there are social benefits at federal, Flemish and Walloon levels, and the OCMW are still offering social benefits. In 2008 the Court of Auditors carried out a first study, so it was almost ten years ago and I think it is somewhat out of date. The study estimated that EUR 1.2 billion is needed to raise the social minima. However, the fact-check of the Seventh Day stated, among other things, that this EUR 1.2 billion is insufficient and that it must be EUR 1.5 billion. Meanwhile, we're ten years later. The first thing we need to do is to calculate and map the social benefits. That's work for specialists from the Court of Auditors and the Planning Bureau. So we know how much more is needed to reach the level of the European risk of poverty. As I said earlier to your colleague Jiroflée, the first appointment will be at the forthcoming thematic Council of Ministers on poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, I am a little disappointed that you have not answered my first question on the benefits still below the European poverty line in concrete terms. You have not said what benefits are involved, or you will provide me with a written summary. That the social corrections have to be taken into account, that's right. That's what the coalition agreement says. You say in your reply that the social benefits granted by the regions must also be taken into account, and even by a number of OCMWFs. However, this should not discourage OCMWFs from granting social benefits, since what the OCMWFs grant, for example giving EUR 50 here or there, is included in the total amount to reach the poverty line. Then the bill for the OCMWFs was quickly made. Then they're not gonna give anything. If that is taken into account, they will not give it anymore. That's a dangerous slope, isn't it? I hope you'll take a look at that with your specialists. I have the question of which social corrections are included and which have not already been made in the past and also during the discussion of the policy letter. You did not give a concrete answer to that at the time. I hope you do not go so far as to include a number of things that all OCMWFs do in a different way. I think there is a need to draw a line in the benefits that exist. That must be the same for all Belgians, but certainly not from one to the other. Madam Secretary of State, I hope you will answer my question in a concrete way, possibly in writing. Otherwise, I will have to ask my question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u23	You may ask your question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u24	Mr Kir turned his question No 17080 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u25	This question also dates back to the end of March. The annual winter shelter in Haren, in Brussels, stopped on 27 March. Then a 300 migrants ended up in the streets, for the record, refusing to apply for asylum. It was mainly about people from Eritrea and Sudan who wanted to travel further to England. Those people asked for the closing of the winter shelter to be postponed by one month, because it was still too cold outside. They also asked for more time to take care of their business. How do you see a solution to this issue? Is an extension of winter care possible? I am talking mainly about next year, because in the meantime this is no longer relevant because the demand dates from months ago. How will you do that next year? Is it possible to provide for a longer period? Eventually, that shelter is financed from federal funds. Is it possible to work with the OMCW and the Länder on a solution? What agreements were made with DVZ regarding accompanying those people for return? The rules are clear: either you apply for asylum and you have the right to receive shelter, or you do not apply for asylum and you have to leave the country, and there is the right to be accompanied to leave the country. On the other hand, we know the reality: it's often about families with children and they don't just put them out on the streets in winter. We need to find a human solution to this without throwing the rules overboard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I think it is indeed important to avoid a number of cases by next winter. I said myself that it was necessary to sit with the DVZ or Mr Francken to work on that guidance. If it's possible, it's better that those groups are turned off for the winter. However, if they are still here and cooperate in their return, they must be taken care of. It keeps going on about people, about families with children. We must find a human solution to this. I also had a question about the Inter-Ministerial Conference. You say it still hasn't come together. It is a good thing that my colleague will give a message to the Presidency to bring it together. I think, however, that a slope B should be walked. We saw that your predecessor failed to bring together an inter-ministerial conference. You've been at it for a couple of months. If that formal approach to the Inter-Ministerial Conference does not succeed, there is nothing to prevent you from convening an informal meeting with those involved in order to find a solution to this problem. Otherwise, you might wait for Godot. I would therefore advise you to hold a meeting with those concerned in order to do better next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, experience experts in poverty and social exclusion are people who have grown up or experienced poverty in their privacy. Through training they were given skills to perform a bridge function between the poor and the non-arms. Within the federal government, they are involved in improving access to fundamental social and other rights. Both the federal government agreement and my resolution on poverty reduction provide for an evaluation and adjustment of the functioning of the experience experts within the federal services. That's what experts and people on the ground think is necessary. After all, they find that the experience experts today may be a little too isolated on the FPS, that they are not getting enough out of it and that they can do much better. My questions are as follows. Are you planning to make an evaluation of the functioning of the experience experts at the Social Integration PPS? Will this project be continued, if necessary after adjustment? Do you intend to submit a proposal to the Council of Ministers on the optimized operation of experience experts? Will you put a proposal on the government table to ask for additional resources to improve the functioning of experience experts? Is that necessary or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u28	Mrs Lanjri, as you know, the experience experts in the Federal Public Services act as bridge figures with a specific experience in the reality of poverty. They learn about the public service in which they work, look at the assets and the difficulties the service has in reaching the target audience and ensuring the fundamental rights of each individual. After that, it is up to the public administration in question to be open to the comments and recommendations of the experienced expert. You rightly mention that project experience experts were included in the federal government agreement and in the resolution on poverty reduction. In addition, the third Federal Action Plan specifically devoted three more actions to this project: actions 47, 51 and 52. You know the evaluation is under way. A month ago I asked through the PPS Social Integration whether it was possible to talk to a whole range of experience experts. We did that, too. What these people do is very important. One of those experience experts worked at the FPS Finance and said that a tax bill was sent to someone in poverty who said he didn't understand what was in it. The experienced expert has given some tips to make that letter more accessible. Such experience experts also work in the RVA and various other public administrations. So I do see the point in this and I am convinced that these experts are needed. You know that every year we had to look for financial resources to pay for this. A public service such as the FPS Finance has now put some experienced experts on the payroll. I think that's a smart thing to do with a public service that recognises the added value of that. So I'm waiting for the evaluation. I've had conversations with the experience experts themselves. I want to avoid that we still have to look at where we can get these funds every year. I shall therefore submit a proposal to the Council of Ministers for the inclusion of this in our public services once this evaluation has been carried out. I do not know exactly when we will receive this evaluation at the moment, but I will ask the administration about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, the project will therefore continue in any case according to the current way of working, with funding year after year. So for next year, there will be no problem with funding. Did I get that right? Please correct me if you do not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u30	For this year the money is available, but for next year I don't know yet. For this reason, I will be presenting a proposal to ensure that not only next year, but forever. Year after year seeking resources for the experience experts is not really a way of working. We must have a plan for financing the experts in public administration. Now, if I am not mistaken, we always have to look for a budget of around EUR 500 000 a year. We've been looking for 2017. Every year we have been searched and found, and this will be the case for 2018, but I think that we are better able to define this in a structural way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, you could not tell me when the evaluation was completed. You say you want to wait for that evaluation and go to the government with it. I hope that you will have these results this month, because Prime Minister Michel intends to conclude the budget negotiations before the summer. If you do not want to look for additional resources next year and the years after, that evaluation will have to be carried out very quickly. I hope you will be able to inform me by e-mail when that evaluation is complete. I hope that this will happen soon so that you can effectively ask for the necessary resources. As far as our group is concerned, we fully support those experts of experience, but we believe that, as was also provided for in the coalition agreement, adjustments are useful and necessary. I don't think putting people in administration or putting them on the payroll is enough. It's a good thing they're sitting there, but they still have to be able to play their role as an experienced expert. Otherwise it will be just officials between the other officials, if they get a different role in the future. You must therefore ensure that they retain the role of a bridge figure and that they are in regular contact with the poverty organisations. That is where improvements are needed. Today, that doesn't happen well enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u32	Questions Nos 17709 and 17712 by Mr Hedebouw and 17712 by Mr Hedebouw. Van Hees are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u33	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, in your policy statement, you committed yourself to ensuring the establishment of a national human rights mechanism. From a reply from your colleague Geens in April 2017 to a question from Mr Van Hecke, I understood that the draft note establishing the human rights mechanism is almost ready and that an agreement was already reached with your predecessor, Mrs Sleurs, on all important aspects. Minister Geens indicated that he hoped that the file could be speeded up after your arrival, so that consultations with the Communities and the Regions could be held soon, in order to finalise the cooperation agreement. The aim would be to sign the cooperation agreement in 2017 and to declare the human rights mechanism operational by the end of the current legislature. In the French-speaking newspaper La Libre Belgique of 12 May 2017, I read that the theme would have been on the agenda of the special Council of Ministers or the superministry council of a few Sundays ago. Ik quote La Libre Belgique: This Sunday, there will be a discussion of the establishment of a human rights mechanism, which was already included in the government's agreement. However, the communication at the end of this Council of Ministers contained nothing about this. Can you tell me more about the state of play on this file? Do you follow the timetable your colleague, Minister Geens, hopes to reach?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u34	Mrs Willaert, I can assure you that it is still my commitment to vouch for the establishment of a national human rights mechanism. It may seem very simple, but it is fairly complex to put this into practice. My predecessor, Mrs Sleurs, has already dealt with the dossier in detail before I take office. Together with you and Mr Geens, I hope to be able to bring this to a successful conclusion. You will understand that, as a new Secretary of State responsible for Equal Opportunities, I wish to place my own accents. For that reason, I have put in a short period of time to take over the file. I can inform you that there have been regular consultations with the Justice Department and Amnesty International on this dossier over the last three months. It is still my intention to submit a draft note to the Council of Ministers for the summer recess together with Mr Geens, with the aim of establishing the national human rights mechanism by the end of the legislature. I hope I have given you sufficient information on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, I understand that it may be a little too soon for you to establish this effectively in 2017. Rather, you are talking about the end of the legislature, and that is something other than what Minister Geen told Mr Van Hecke at the beginning of April. I am certainly curious to see the accents you want to put on that. We will follow this matter closely. I don't have to tell you how important this is. After all, there are still a number of gaps and that is why it is important to set this up. Moreover, we are being struck at with regard to respect for human rights in prisons. As far as measures to combat terrorism are concerned, too, we must ensure that they do not violate human rights, which we all consider to be very important. I look forward to the establishment of the national human rights mechanism. I hope it will be good and set up quickly, even though it may not always be easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u36	In any case, I intend to present a draft note before the recess. However, you also know that it takes a while before everything is established and in operation. I hope, however, that it will still be established during this legislature. I will not wait until the end of the term of office with my draft paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, as you are no doubt aware, Belgium has recently dropped two places on the so-called Rainbow Index, which ranks all European countries according to the holebi- and transgender-friendliness of their policies. One of the reasons for this is that the draft law, which is to replace the 2007 trans-law, had not been adopted at that time. According to Çavaria, there is a missed opportunity, even though the draft law has now been adopted, because the principle of self-determination is not fully applied. Madam Secretary of State, at the future congress of Çavaria on International Day against Holebifobie and Transphobia, you have signed a declaration of commitment. What is the state of play? What are you going to do to really engage you after putting that signature? What measures will you take? The fact that we used to always lead the peloton of the transgender- and holebifriendly countries while we now just descend is a pity. Are you going to work on the two causes of the Belgian decline on the Rainbow Index? At what time can we expect results?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u38	Mrs Jiroflée, thank you for your question. The signatories commit themselves to work together on the acceptance of sexual and gender diversity and the well-being of LGBTI individuals, and to show solidarity with LGBTI individuals within and outside the borders; and confirm that sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression and gender traits are an integral part of a person and include self-determination as a starting point, and call on organisations and individuals to participate in our utopia from their own role in society. Anyone can make a difference and this explanation is the starting point for this. Indeed, I was pleased to sign Çavaria's declaration of commitment on 17 May. It goes without saying that, as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, I will focus on improving the legal and social position of LGBTI individuals or the rainbow community. The first results were already achieved when, on 24 May, the Chamber of Representatives adopted the draft law on the reform of transgender arrangements in plenary. You agreed to that, too. That was a first, important step. Too bad, but unfortunately that law was too late to influence Belgium's ranking in the Rainbow Index. Understandably, ILGA-Europe only takes into account legislation that has already entered into force. There is no doubt that next year the law will have a positive impact on the ranking. In addition, as described in my policy statement, I foresee the following policies to promote the inclusion of LGBTI individuals. Firstly, a national campaign to combat transphobia and transphobic violence, which will be launched on 20 November 2017, in the context of the transgender remembrance day, the day on which we pay attention to the victims of transphobic violence. Secondly, the follow-up and update of the inter-federal action plan to combat homophobic and trans-phobic discrimination 2013-2014 and the inter-federal action plan against homophobic and trans-phobic violence will be integrated into a single inter-federal action plan to combat homophobia and trans-phobia. I will present that plan to you and the committee by the end of this year. That is also a priority for me, because it should have been done a long time ago. So I really want to do something about it. Thirdly, I also intended to organise a broad survey of the population, specifically measuring the attitude of citizens towards LGBTI individuals, in line with the European Commission's recommendation against racism and intolerance. Fourthly, the creation of an Intersex Infopoint, following one of the policy recommendations in the study on intersex persons. I want to support people with intersex condition and parents of children with intersex condition and support them in the form of correct, easy-to-use information, following the example of the successful Transgender Infopoint. The ILGA Rainbow Index must continue to be seen for what it is, namely an instrument of civil society that seeks to provoke a new policy. Therefore, new categories are added every year, such as a ban on conversion therapies, forms of therapy that should cure homosexuality. Although these practices are, of course, reprehensible, we do not hear a question from civil society to pursue a policy on this issue. We have no knowledge of such practices in this country. Therefore, it would not be advisable to use the limited policy resources to impose a legal ban only in view of an increase in the Rainbow Index.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u39	Madam Secretary of State, let me be clear, that figure is obviously not my first concern either. My first concern is that something happens. I'm glad there's a date set for the national campaign on transphobia. That is a good thing. You have listed the issues in your policy paper once again. I'm waiting for a timing for that. I'm stuck with that one problem. I repeat what I said on the day of the adoption of the trans-law. We have approved it with great conviction, but it remains a fact that Çavaria does not think it is really emancipatory, even though they too welcome that great step forward. Perhaps this can also be addressed in the future. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u40	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I refer here to an article published in La Libre Belgique last week which refers to a study by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men (IEFH). According to the study, the figures for reporting on gender-based discrimination doubled in one year. As many as 70 per cent of complaints related to discrimination on the basis of sex or gender have been brought by women. It appears that this discrimination is often related to pregnancy or maternity. As a result of this study, the Institute concludes that the position of women in the labour market remains more than vulnerable. Madam Secretary of State, how do you explain this increase in gender discrimination complaints? In 2016, the Institute intervened in 18 cases before different courts. Do you already have figures for the first quarter of 2017? What can be done to further curb this particularly unfair phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u41	Madam President, Ms Jadin, the increase in complaints of gender discrimination can be explained in part by the increased visibility of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and, more precisely, of its legal tasks, namely to assist, within its budget, free of charge and in full confidentiality, everyone seeking consultation on their rights and obligations. The other possible explanation for this increase in complaints is the media impact of some cases, which leads to an influx of complaints to the Institute's legal service. With regard to the assignment of the double surname, since the adoption of the 2014 Double Name Act, therefore before the change made by this government, the Institute has received 65 reports on this topic. Twenty new reports on this subject were introduced in 2016, the media having frequently addressed this issue. The Institute, however, notes this increase by the results of several of its studies revealing the black figures of gender-related discrimination. In terms of discrimination related to pregnancy and maternity, for example, her 2010 study entitled "Grossness at work, experience and obstacles experienced by female workers in Belgium" showed that three out of four women had experienced some form of discrimination due to pregnancy or maternity at work. The studies demonstrated a significant underreporting of complaints. The reports received within the Institute are therefore, in fact, only a small part of the discrimination actually perceived in Belgium. Convinced that this problem requires a cross-cutting approach, I decided to launch – this is a first in Belgium – a federal action plan "Genre et Emploi". The aim of the plan will be to propose a series of concrete measures, which will be based on five axes: to facilitate the combination of work and private life for women and men, to combat gender discrimination in the labour market and to improve the protection of parenthood, to eliminate the wage gap, to strengthen equal representation in the economic decision-making process, and to deconstruct gender stereotypes in the labour market. The plan was consulted by civil society at the end of 2016 and its contributions were analysed. My firm is currently working on drafting a project that will then be presented to my government partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u42	Madam Secretary of State, thank you very much. I'm making two observations. First, I see the Institute's usefulness in highlighting certain discriminations and in encouraging some women, who may not have dared to take the step, to file a complaint. It is known, whether it is for discrimination in the workplace or for violence against women, that it is difficult for them to take this step. Second observation, Madam Secretary of State, the stated objectives are sufficient proof that you have, and we have, a lot of work to do to implement projects resulting from this plan, as well as the urgency of doing so. It's 2017. It's a shame to still have to ask questions like that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, a committee of experts was set up to evaluate anti-discrimination laws. This committee is composed of representatives of the magistrate, the lawyer, the workers' and employers' organizations and of the experts proposed by the relevant ministers. The committee is composed of 12 effective members. The appointment of KB entered into force on 14 August 2016. According to the Royal Decree of 18 November 2015, the first evaluation report should follow within the six months following the entry into force of the appointment decision of the members of the Committee. The evaluation report should therefore have been available on 14 February 2017. What's the status? Is there an explanation for the delay? What further steps can we expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u44	The anti-discrimination laws should have been reviewed long ago, under Mrs Milquet. Unfortunately, this has not happened. My predecessor had ordered the evaluation to be made. A committee of experts has indeed been set up. Unia shall provide the secretariat of this committee. It receives more than 20 000 euros in addition to the 6 million euros they receive annually from the federal government. Unfortunately, this is not enough to provide for a full translation of the evaluation report. I read in the newspaper that the EUR 20 000 was too little to provide for a translation. That surprised me, because I find EUR 20,000 on top of the EUR 6 million grant quite a lot. I've been looking for a solution. I've consulted with the services of the Chamber. They were prepared to use their translation services exceptionally for the translation of this report. I am very grateful to them for that. My cabinet also remained in contact with these services during this process. They will provide a full translation by the end of this week. Then the report will be delivered to Parliament. As you know, in accordance with Article 52 of the Law combating certain forms of discrimination, it is for the Legislative Chambers to carry out the evaluation. That is not for me as a member of the government, but I believe that I have done everything I can to get the evaluation report translated. I hope it can be delivered to the committee by the end of this week. I would therefore ask the President to have it discussed in detail here, possibly with a number of experts, because it is a comprehensive evaluation. If necessary, I'm also at the disposal of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u45	We are following the translation work closely. We will try to hold a joint Justice and Public Health meeting. That will depend on their schedule. It is indeed a law that has been passed in the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u46	That's good news. I understand that it can happen quite quickly. However, I assume that your cabinet and Unia will take the necessary measures to avoid this kind of strife in future so that everything goes a little smoother. We look forward to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u47	I would like to add that it was not my fault. In fact, I find it inappropriate that, while Unia is already getting EUR 6 million, we have to pay an additional EUR 20 000 for the secretarial work, which we are already paying through the EUR 6 million. I do not think it is possible for Unia to fail to deliver that translation. I just read that in the paper, on which I drew my plan and provided the translation. At least it's not me. I do not think it is right that an organisation receiving EUR 6 million, with an additional EUR 20 000 on top of it for the secretariat, should not be able to deliver a translation. I'm sorry, but I don't have any words for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u48	I am not speaking on that last point, Madam Secretary of State. I can only conclude, also from the newspaper, that the strife between you or your cabinet and Unia is making things difficult, and I am simply arguing here for regulation, a more normal relationship between a service and a cabinet. That is all I can say. I'm not here for the rest of it, so I'm not going to interfere.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u49	I hope you say that to Unia too, because you say that to me very often, but I hope you say that to Unia as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u50	This is just not a way of working for a government and you have to solve it with Unia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u51	I agree with you that this is not a way of working. If, however, you know that EUR 6 million is awarded to Unia and an additional EUR 20 000 for this, and then you play a whole game about that translation, then I really do not think it is up to me, Mrs Jiroflée. You probably have a lot of contacts with Unia, so I hope you will also tell Unia that this is not a way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u52	I just don't know. It is simply up to you, Madam Secretary of State, to take responsibility there. That's gotta be smoother. Voilà, that's all I want to say about that. I'm not defending anything or anyone. I'm just establishing...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u53	You're attacking me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u54	No, I'm not attacking you. I'm just determining. I didn't attack you. I asked you a decent question about why that is left behind. When I read the papers, I find there's trouble. I just hope that they will be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u55	The terms of reference should clarify that translation is included in the report and study work. We therefore look forward to it and hope that the services can assist us in organizing this evaluation meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u56	Madam Secretary of State, if I ask you this question now, it is in part because, a good week ago, the Women's Life Association brought together the parliamentarians of the House and the Senate to share with them a study that it had carried out with a little more than 400 women on the sexism of which they are victims in the public space, the different realities and difficulties encountered. It was quite impressive to hear that 98% of young women interviewed said they had been victims of sexism in the public space; 48% said it was a recurring reality, causing much humiliation and anger. They related physical assaults and verbal assaults. The meeting also revealed that, in addition to the fact that there were many physical and verbal attacks in the public space, the use of the law was difficult, because few women knew it and that they could file a complaint. Few women know how to use the mechanisms that require a witness to accompany this complaint. We also find that few people agree to testify. This is the case in all the attacks suffered, but in this context in particular. Stereotyping continues to exist outside of gender-based violence against young women. There has been an increasing increase in the public advertising space of relatively sexist forms. It is also apparent that judges and police officers react unevenly in different districts and personalities. It is interesting to mention the good models: it is also apparent that, since 2012, in Brussels, the administrative sanction has been reinforced when it comes to a sexist act. These are administrative sanctions, not court sentences, and therefore they attract more attention and make things more effective. Madam Secretary of State, is it envisaged, and if so how, to introduce changes in the burden of proof and in the way it is assessed by the various courts? The law against sexism only takes into account gender-based actions and behaviours. Do you not think that its definition and scope should be expanded to include gender-based messages? Are there any information and awareness-raising measures planned to publicize this law? Is there an articulated work with the various competent authorities to complement the purely repressive dimension of the law with more prevention? I quoted in my question the example of "anti-frotting brigades" in France because the attacks mostly take place on trains and metros. This tool appears to demonstrate its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u57	Mrs Gerkens, with regard to the first question, I invite you to address my colleague, the Minister of Justice. In the fight against sexism, the Belgian legislator is a pioneer in this area, since he passed the first law in the world to deal with this subject. This is the law to combat sexism in the public space of 22 May 2014. It sends a clear signal that society disapproves of sexism. This legislation reflects the importance that our society attaches to the rejection of certain behaviours. There is, to date, no judicial decision based on the law against sexism. It is therefore still too early to question it or to adapt it. On the other hand, I believe that additional measures should be taken rather than amending the law. I abhor certain behaviors, such as sexual street harassment in certain cities or neighborhoods. We cannot fight that with a law. I too was not a fan of that law in 2014. If we are to change the mentality, we must do so by means of measures which change the opinion of certain people. I am also thinking of the cities of Antwerp, Malines and Schaerbeek, which are putting in place a broad action plan and an awareness campaign to combat sexual intimidation on the street. For my part, I can of course take a series of measures, but it is important that the local level also put its hands to the dough. For my part, I am also planning an awareness campaign on street sexual intimidation. We will make it clear which behaviour is punishable by law and to whom victims can turn. Then I will also launch an application that will allow victims to find their way to help services and the police more quickly if needed. Finally, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men published a brochure on the law against sexism. The Institute also provides training and lectures on sexism to raise awareness and inform the various actors, including the academic world, employers and trade unions. In the framework of the policy circular on research and prosecution of discrimination and hate crimes, the Institute also provides training on hate crimes to magistrates and the police. The fact that the Institute publishes brochures and provides training for academics, employers and trade unions is all good, but I believe that if we really want to change something in society, we should not do so by law. After the 2014 law, no file has reached the court. I firmly believe that every time something like this occurs, society must make it clear that this is unacceptable. I firmly believe in sensitizing and informing everyone as well as possible, first of all the perpetrators, of course, not the professors or the employers. It is really in those streets that we must be present. I'm working on a awareness campaign right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic679x.u58	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. It is true that a law is not enough for this kind of measure. Nevertheless, this law is particularly important because it marks things: we cannot afford certain acts or words. Unfortunately, it is unknown and difficult to apply. There have been few complaints, but I hope that they will still lead to judgements that will give body and show that these behaviours are unacceptable. I hear your willingness to develop awareness-raising tools to remind us that these words and actions are unacceptable. I share the view that the local level has great power and that law enforcement and security officers must be well aware of this and have the eye to intervene. I also put a question to your colleague Mr Geens on this subject because if we want to file a complaint, the need for two witnesses complicates the process a little. I don't have the solution, so we'll have to think about it.
