ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u1	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Franky Demon's 15975, 16001 and 16042 are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you about the security of the large Belgian railway stations. However, since then, you have carried out a mission to Israel dealing with public security. Minister, what did you withdraw from this visit? What mechanisms have you observed in the infrastructure of this country that could be adapted or transposed to the Belgian railway network? Is there or will there be cooperation with Israel on mobility? Will a budget be devoted to the protection and security of the Belgian railway network during 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u3	Mr President, Mr Pivin, in Israel, I have mostly received confirmation that the protection of soft targets is essentially a combination of different measures. Work needs to be done on three aspects: first, the collection of information and intelligence on potential threats; second, the detection and eradication of the threat; and third, the prediction of an adequate interception capability to intercept any potential threat. The first aspect involves the full cooperation of all security forces so that information can be collected, analysed and used in a maximum and targeted manner in order to be able to proceed to the next stage, namely detection and eradication. The detection of potential threats can only take place if we know where they can potentially come from. This detection can also be done through technological means (ANPR, CCTV, facial recognition, etc.) that via police officers such as, for example, behaviour detection officers. These resources are currently being developed. Already in Zaventem, the technological means and training of police officers are being put in place. Once this is done and some experience has been gained in Zaventem, it will also be implemented at other regional airports. The removal of the threat may, for example, consist of structural security measures (armoured doors, armored windows, etc.) In addition to other measures making the attacks more difficult to commit or minimizing the consequences. Finally, in the case of a potential threat, it can be immediately verified whether the threat is real and if so, it must be adequately responded to. Under IPF 81, training opportunities have been provided for the establishment of task forces in the police areas, which will enable rapid and adequate response to specific threats. In addition to these measures, an Amok training course will soon begin, during which each basic police officer will receive specialized training on how to respond to terrorist incidents. Here is a fairly comprehensive answer on the various measures. The vision text and a concrete plan of action for its development were approved in July 2016 by the National Security Council. Several follow-up meetings were held at which this action plan was discussed in practice. One of the points of action concerns intelligent technology; it is managed by the firm Mobility. An initial deadline had been set for the last half of 2016 but was not met. For a concrete answer to your question about concrete development measures, I refer you to the Mobility firm. I can add, however, that in the discussions on the PNR system that Mr Buysrogge will be asking me about earlier, we intend to see how to implement, install this PNR system also on the rail network. We already have the agreement of four neighbouring countries. In my opinion, it is possible to do so. The other countries are also convinced of this. We are therefore going to start working with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u4	Minister, you haven't brought in any particular technology in your suitcases, ahead of what we have, which could be of use to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u5	The suspicious behavior detection system is not really a technology. The Israelis trained our coaches.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u6	It's more of a procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 16088 was converted into a written question. Mr Top is not yet here. If he doesn't come back, his question will be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u8	Mr. Chair, Minister, I would like to draw your attention today to the fire standards to be met in the shooting centres, which are used in particular for the practical exercises of the police officers. You know, like me, that these places can be the scene of major incidents because of the use of firearms, dangerous substances, shooting accidents (e.g. ricochet) or intrusions. I am told, moreover, that the shooting centre at Geruzet in Etterbeek had already suffered a fire a few years ago, causing several injuries. The failure to comply with fire standards has reportedly been mentioned by some sources as the main reason for this fire departure. Worse still, the situation has demonstrated a lack of training or information for the manager on the arrangements to be made and the appropriate responses (evacuation, precautions, emergency exits) to this type of situation. In some centres, the emergency exit is used as the main access, which engulfs the passage in the event of evacuation. So many cases lead me to ask you about fire standards and their application. Are fire standards formally established and accessible? Can you ensure that all shooting centres meet these standards? Are controls organised? In the event of an incident, centre managers have an indispensable role, but how can they ensure that they are properly trained and informed in incident management?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u9	Mrs Ben Hamou, in addition to the applicable fire legislation, which is an essential reference, the fire standards to be met for the Federal Police shooting stands are systematically included in the environmental permits granted for the development of such specific infrastructure. The competent fire services shall, in this respect, remit the requirements to be met, which may be higher for fire pits, taking into account the particular functionality of these infrastructures. Fire standards are not the only ones to be met. Consideration should also be given to safety standards related to fire drills - for example, anti-ricochet coating. The prevention committees carry out annual visits to the workplaces, including shooting stands, thus allowing for the identification of possible shortcomings. The Federal Police's Masterplan Infrastructure provides for the upgrading of fire pits with such shortcomings, which contains specific guidelines for fire pits, particularly taking into account the functional needs of federal police services. With regard to your second question, the fire stand manager is formally appointed and informed of his or her role and responsibility for fire prevention. To this end, it receives support from the internal prevention and protection service of the prevention committee but also from the logistics and infrastructure services. In addition and with the assistance of the internal worker prevention and protection service, a fire prevention file is drawn up by the person in charge of the building in which the shooting stand is located. Its content is communicated to all users, including the manager of the shooting stand. This file clearly reflects the procedures for alerting, alarming and evacuation. These are also the subject of a poster campaign with the regulatory pictograms placed at strategic locations. All buildings occupied by the Federal Police have formed a first response team responsible for the implementation of procedures in the event of an outbreak of fire. In addition, an annual fire evacuation exercise is organized. This exercise allows you to acquire the right reflexes in the event of a fire, but also to point out the shortcomings in order to be able to improve them. Fire monitors are, in this particular case, the main actors: they undergo comprehensive training, during which procedures in the event of a fire, incident or accident are taught. Recycling is also planned. During each training, a safety procedure is applied. It may be different depending on the stands and specified in the rules of procedure which remain at the disposal of these monitors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u10	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for his full answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I am reminded that the hours reserved for sports training would have been abolished in most police areas. In order to be able to cope with their missions on a daily basis, however, it is essential that police officers be able to exercise and maintain themselves in good physical condition. Since these hours have now been abolished, the authorities rely on the good will of the police officers to maintain their physical condition during their rest time, outside of the hours of duty. A situation that, together with the staggering shortage of troops, the terrorist threat and the difficulty of their missions, makes the work of the police complex, thus multiplying the number of burn-outs and depressions. In these circumstances, some police officers choose to take sick leave, as in Molenbeek a few weeks ago, depriving police areas of their staff. It is a way for them to protest against the lack of investment and resources given to their profession. Minister, can you confirm that these hours of sport have indeed been removed? If so, what are the reasons? Have you objectively considered the impact of this measure on the physical condition of the police and indirectly on the smooth running of their missions? What alternative can you offer to these police officers in terms of working time arrangements, if any, reserved for sport? In general, Committee P has already had the opportunity to point out that many continuing training courses are not followed for imperative reasons related to the service. What is the status of this view and what steps are being taken to correct this problematic situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u12	Ms. Ben Hamou, the problem of the practice of sport within the integrated police force is solved by circular GPI 37 of 9 April 2003. This circular distinguishes between two types of sports activities. First, sports activities prescribed by the authority. These are considered to be benefits of service. They are divided into two categories: training activities (control of violence, self-defence, etc.) and functional training (exercises and trainings imposed by the responsible authority as part of the organization of the service and preparation for the completion of operational missions). These activities are organized either in the internal infrastructure or in external facilities, but always under the direction of a specialist in the field concerned, for example, the control of violence. In addition, each head of body may, if he considers it appropriate, authorize the practice of a sport and recognize this practice as functional training. For example, this measure has long been applicable in two federal police directorates-general where two hours of sport per month were considered to be functional training, under certain conditions listed in an internal note. In order to create a consistent policy across all branches, the Federal Police Steering Committee recently approved a new policy note that no longer provides hours of sport but provides many facilities for staff to engage in sport, reconciling it with their professional lives. In addition, Circular GPI 48 also provides training in the more specific context of violence control. To the best of my knowledge, no directives have been issued to limit activities in this first category. Of course, I encourage heads of corps and heads of operational units to train their police officers and to maintain a physical condition that will enable them to adequately carry out their missions in the field while taking into account the means at their disposal to ensure that their missions are carried out. Secondly, sports activities not prescribed by the authority. These are not recorded as benefits, but an accident occurring there may, subject to certain conditions listed in the circular, be considered an accident at work. These activities have never been recorded as service benefits. There has therefore been no restriction in this respect. Finally, some exceptional activities may be exempt from service, e.g. participation in national or international competitions. As far as your second question is concerned, as I said, each head of the body can, if he considers it appropriate, equate the practice of sport with functional training. It is within the autonomy of each police force to define its policy in this area. Again, I can only encourage the men and women of the police services to practice sports in a private, collective or not, not only for their own health but also to enable them to carry out their operational missions as long as possible. With respect to your third question, it is very difficult for police schools to know why a staff member withdraws as there is no obligation to motivate this withdrawal. However, at the level of the National Police Academy, the practice is that when a person withdraws for imperative reasons of service, he or she can be registered directly in the next training session. For this purpose, it is automatically placed on the waiting list linked to the training concerned and can, via a registration system on line, choose the training session which is best suited to it. Other police schools are encouraged to do likewise, to the extent of their organizational capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u13	Minister, thank you for all your answers. On the one hand, I understand that different training courses are provided. But, on the other hand, you also mentioned the fact that the two hours of sport that were granted were abolished for the federal police. As compensation, it is easier for them to be able to play sports. But how? What are they given to do sports next door, if we delete the two hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u14	We didn't delete anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u15	But you said it in your presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u16	You're asking me a question. I'll answer you. We have not removed anything: neither at the ministerial level nor at the level of the chief of police. This is the responsibility of the head of the corps, i.e. of each directorate within the federal police, and of the local chief of corps. It is up to them to see what different systems existed within the police. Today, we've standardized. They say we're "facilitating." This means that if people want to do sport, they have the right to do it during hours of duty. But they must no longer do it collectively. We didn't cut off the hours of sports. We made them easier. They were told that they had the right to do a few hours of sport, and that they could practice their sport when it was best for them. This is considered to be service delivery.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u17	Why didn't you keep the two hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u18	As I said, this is the responsibility of the zone chiefs and the directors. It's up to them to figure out how to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u19	Have you not taken part in the decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u20	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u21	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament 16161 by Mrs Heeren is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 16238 was converted into a written question. Mrs. Temmerman was here, but she was recalled to another committee. She may come back, or her question will become... 16240 converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delannois' 16247 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u23	Mr President, at the end of last year the Chamber adopted a new framework law on PNR. That framework law can only enter into force after sectoral consultations have taken place and after you have had the opportunity to discuss the necessary royal decisions. The international support for PNR legislation is also important. I believe that there has also been some support for neighbouring countries after the terrorist Anis Amri was able to travel freely from Berlin to Milan. I understand from media coverage that Belgium, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom reached agreement on 26 January 2016 on the introduction of passenger lists, specifically than for high-speed trains. It would be an international pilot project, for which, among other things, a joint task force will be set up, which will consult with Thalys and Eurostar. I could also conclude from the press reports that the first results of this task force could be expected by the end of March and that there could be an operational system by the end of the year. Mr Minister, I have the following specific questions. What will this task force look like? Where will she be located? How am I supposed to see that operational? In addition to consulting Thalys and Eurostar, what will be the tasks of this task force? How is it financed? How will the exchange of information between countries take place? What is the state of play in the consultations with the sectors and in the drafting of the various royal decrees announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u24	Mr Buysrogge, as you know, on 22 December last year Parliament adopted Belgian PNR legislation. At that time, I stressed the need for a common approach with our neighbouring countries for the various sectors in the light of security and commercial interests. For example, it makes no sense to work on the Thalys only with PNR in Belgium and not in the Netherlands and France. That is why I took the initiative to draw up a proposal to establish a common approach with our neighbouring countries to collect PNR data in the high-speed rail sector. Last Thursday, on 26 January 2017, Belgium, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom reached an agreement on the launch of a pilot project to introduce passenger lists for high-speed trains. So we're talking about the Thalys and the Eurostar. This agreement was reached in the margins of the JHA meeting in Malta and stems from my conviction of the need to cooperate with neighbouring countries. A task force will be set up under this initiative, composed of experts from each participating Member State. Belgium will play the leading role in this and will also take the initiative. It will not be a physical task force that has an office somewhere, with the current means of communication we can exchange everything with each other. Initially, consultations are held between the countries and thereafter with Eurostar and Thalys on the modalities of the common approach to the collection of PNR data in the rail sector. We will initially ask them to cooperate on a voluntary basis and to forward their PNR data. It's not about supplementary data or specific things, just things that they're already capturing and playing on today. I know very well that the rail sector is a specific sector where, for example, a lot of last minute tickets are sold. So we're gonna take that into account. I believe there are solutions to this. By the end of March, this Task Force will present the first findings, again at the JHA meetings. These first proposals are the findings of the Member States and the first contacts with the sector, in order to identify what is possible in what context. As far as financing is concerned, specific funding is not necessary at the moment and is not at issue. We will set up a PNR system. A budget is provided for this, including for the airport sector. That's a course the route. In the same PNR system, we will charge the Thalys and Eurostar data. The exchange of data between the passenger information units of the countries is one of the modalities on which consultation is organised. This exchange will in any case take place in the same way as the future exchange of PNR data for air traffic. You asked about a state of affairs of the royal decrees. That for aviation is almost done. The sector is also asking for this. It's progressing. As far as trains are concerned, we must be able to prepare the royal decree by mid-year so that we can get these things operational by the end of the year. As far as the other sectors are concerned, we still have to start the process. I've always said they'll follow one by one. It will be relatively simple for the maritime sector, because it is largely about us and the UK. The UK already has a PNR system, has a lot of experience and is asking for it. Bookings in the maritime sector are all made via the Internet. It is therefore quite easy to set up a PNR system for this purpose. A PNR system for international bus transport You have rightly referred to Amri....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Those buses run through a lot of countries. So let us first gain experience in the other sectors. Then we will see how, with a whole range of countries, we can organise the system for the bus sector. You know that all the Member States of Europe are bound by the directive and must have their PNR system operational by the end of 2018. In the course of this year, therefore, you will see a rapid acceleration in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. We were indeed the first country to transpose the PNR Directive. That was done by the Chamber on your initiative. In the meantime, we're gonna be following our neighbors. It is good that we are taking a leading role specifically for high-speed lines. I can assure you that I will continue to follow this, both the international consultations and the timetable you give indicatively for the various royal decisions. In due course, I will ask you again about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u26	Minister, on 25 January I asked you about civil protection reform. I would like some clarification here. In fact, in your answer, you explained to me: "for units that would be closed, an adequate solution will be considered, either in the remaining units, or with other public services such as emergency areas, the police, the Office of Foreigners, prison surveillance, etc." Minister, have the public services to which you refer, and which may be affected by the closure of certain Emergency Preparedness units, been formally consulted with respect to this eventuality? If so, at what level was this contact made? Is it only at the federal level or have some local services that would be directly concerned been sensitized? And if this contact has been made, do you already have any information on their position? If not, consider doing so, when and how?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u27	Mrs Poncelet, so far, there have been only exploratory discussions with the internal and external partners of the Internal FPS. With regard to possible mobility outside the Internal FPS, these are valid avenues for further consideration, such as emergency areas, the Federal Police, the Finance FPS and the Justice FPS. Given the exploratory nature of the interviews, it would be too early to expect a definitive or targeted position of the partners. As soon as political agreement on the reform is reached, it will be possible to examine the future of the staff more closely. The staff members concerned will be given personalized support, i.e. they will have an interview with each staff member to offer them different possibilities and try to find a personalized solution for each staff member. For this to happen, we must first have the political decision, to know in which direction we will move.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u28	Thank you, Minister. You didn't really say when things could evolve. I know that in a political agreement it is not always obvious to plan. But we will remain very attentive. I assume that there will be elements in the press in good time and we will not fail to react at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u29	Minister, this is a supplementary question to the one I asked you last week on civil protection reform. In your reply, you stated that "all urgent front-line tasks will be transferred to the emergency areas following the reform of the fire zones". Can you give me a list of these tasks? What do you mean by "first-line urgent tasks" that could be transferred to the emergency areas? Has this list been defined with the emergency areas? Have the relief areas been made aware of the changes that might take place in the near future? If not, is this planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u30	Mrs Poncelet, in terms of legislation, the reform requires an amendment to the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014 determining the tasks and tasks of civil security carried out by the emergency zones and by the operational units of the Civil Protection and amending the Royal Decree of 16 February 2006 on the emergency and response plan. In particular, there is a reference to columns 1 and 2 of the annex. Column 1 currently includes the tasks of the relief zones with the support of other areas and operational units, if necessary. A reduction of this support from Civil Protection is envisaged for these tasks which, following the reform of the fire services, are already part of the responsibility of the rescue zones and which are already being carried out for them in a large part of Belgium. Column 2 includes specialized civil protection technical support. The wording of the tasks in columns 1 and 2 will be specified to clarify the distinction. The list of tasks assigned either to fire zones or to emergency preparedness will be validated by the Federal Government Select Committee. This decision will then be endorsed by the Council of Ministers. Given that a broad consultation was held in 2016 with all stakeholders and that a compromise proposal finally emerged, no further problems should arise once the political agreement on the other aspects of civil protection reform has been reached. The opinions of the following federations were taken into account: the Royal Federation of Belgian Fire Brigades (FRCSPB), Brandweer Vereniging Vlaanderen (BVV), the Councils of Zone Commanders and the Vereniging Vlaamse Beroepsvrijwilligers (VVB). Even better, several proposals have been adapted in order to be able to benefit from wider support in this area. As noted, an appropriate proposal to allocate tasks was discussed in extenso with the main partners active in the field. For the rest, the planned reform can only be achieved by continuing to work with the relief areas in order to facilitate the transition if necessary. This consultation will be intensified on the basis of the details of the location and the number of remaining barracks. I can also point out - and this will be done in some cases - that front-line tasks, now carried out by civil protection, will be transferred, including equipment, the financing of the areas and, if they so wish, the personnel. If the tasks are transferred, the means involved will also be transferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. What you have added is precisely the beginning of the next question. Mr President, may I turn to the following question? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u32	Mr Minister, the answer you gave me on 25 January on civil protection reform raises many new issues, particularly within the relief zone units that could be affected by possible transfers - as you have just said. Indeed, the transfer of urgent front-line tasks to relief areas implies that relief areas will have new missions. It can then be assumed that specialized personnel and specific equipment will be part of this transfer. Do you confirm that? Will the budget related to these missions also be transferred or, in other words, do you envisage an increase in federal allocations in the budgets of the relief areas to ensure that these personnel and equipment are taken over? How will this budget be assessed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u33	Dear colleague, let me first point out that we are not going to increase the number of tasks in the emergency areas. But the presence of a Civil Protection Barracks in some places - not everywhere - gives emergency zones or Civil Protection Barracks an advantage that other areas will not have. Therefore, switching these front-line tasks to emergency areas does not add tasks to them. Elsewhere, the areas already have these tasks. As I said, the possible transfer of equipment and personnel will focus on elements other than the specific specialized technical support capacity. It is precisely these tasks and resources that are assigned to Civil Protection. These may be means that can facilitate the performance of front-line tasks by emergency areas. The aim is to ensure that areas do not have to suffer financially. For areas where Civil Protection currently provides front-line missions, the transfer of the equipment concerned must take place. I will examine the question of an additional count. But, I repeat, given the modest impact, we should not have great hopes. It will be necessary to negotiate with each emergency zone or civil protection barracks the means necessary and available to carry out these tasks. Timing will also be discussed. I don't want to force things. We will examine their ability to receive these tasks. We're not going to force things. It's about security. I must be sure that the areas are capable of carrying out the tasks transferred. For this, we negotiate with them regarding means and timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u34	Minister, thank you for these answers. I hear you don't want to force us. Good. As you say, security is important. Nevertheless, civil protection zones and relief zones remain in the wave, because the information is not circulating. In any case, the areas I have contacted are waiting for answers and there are many questions. That's what I'm trying to clear up. I see there's no definite timing. This is still quite vague. I know that there is a political agreement behind this, that everything depends on this political agreement. But this remains worrying, as the agenda is not clearly defined.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u35	Mr President, Minister, the Royal Decree of 10 November 2012 sets out the minimum conditions for the most rapid adequate assistance and the appropriate means for the relief areas. Thus, Article 2(2) specifies the minimum means available to each rescue zone. It appears that, as part of an intervention to combat a fire, an explosion and its consequences, each area will automatically and immediately have to send a multifunctional self-timer with a non-commissioned officer and five firefighters as well as a command vehicle with an officer. Currently and given that pre-areas and areas have a transitional period until 31 December 2017, less than a year, to comply with the provisions, the number of people present from the barracks to an intervention of this type is four. That is the current situation! From 1 January 2018, however, the shift from four to six people in intervention may complicate the situation in some areas that do not have enough professionals to complete the teams of this kind. This is particularly the case in rural areas. These areas will therefore have to reorganise their teams, perhaps hire professional staff and, consequently, increase their budget, which will have an immediate and consequent impact on the municipal budgets, since the municipalities are largely involved in the operation of the relief areas. Mr Minister, while this royal decree is obviously constructive both for the safety of the population and the safety of the stakeholders, it remains difficult to apply for the areas. Indeed, the list of "model departures" for an intervention is so wide that it should be reviewed so as to prioritise the types of interventions according to the number of actors needed for them. Minister, could you consider amending the legislation to take account of rural situations? Would it not be appropriate to make nuances in this order allowing the rural relief areas simply to bear the burden? Would it not be easier for some areas to bring these six people together at the intervention site rather than leaving the barracks, using reinforcements from another barracks? Finally, could you consider revising the list of "model departures" for an intervention based on the number of stakeholders needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u36	Ms Poncelet, Article 12 of the Royal Decree of 10 November 2012 effectively states that "relief zones shall be granted a transitional period until 31 December 2017 to comply with the provisions of this Order". During this five-year transitional period, the zones had to plan for the gradual implementation of the provisions of the decree. At the end of the transitional period, therefore, most of the work should already be done. Almost all of the relief areas have established an operational personnel plan. In drawing up this personnel plan, the relief zone must take into account, inter alia, risk analysis, intervention statistics, the actual availability of voluntary personnel during the various working hours of the day, the operational organisation scheme and the above-mentioned rules on the minimum adequate means. The establishment of the operational organisation scheme and the personnel plan may highlight the need to redeploy part of the existing professional staff between the various relief posts and/or to recruit voluntary or professional staff. This possible additional staff, necessary to enable compliance with the provisions on the minimum adequate means as of 1 January 2018, must logically already be recruited given the length of the training of a firefighter. As regards the possibility of securing the minimum appropriate resources at the place of intervention rather than at the departure of a single post, it is already in the regulation and is well-supervised. Article 6 of the Royal Decree of 10 November 2012 provides for an exception where it is impossible to gather the minimum number of six persons for the self-pump within the time limit set by the zone. In this case, it is possible to simultaneously send two self-employers with four persons, one of whom is a non-commissioned officer, from two different positions. This exception will remain valid after January 1, 2018. The circular of 3 June 2013 sets out the reasons for this exception and the manner in which it is applied. The ministerial decree of 8 September 2014 sets the limits of the actions that can be carried out as long as only four speakers are present on the scene, that is, until the second self-taught one has arrived. For the details of this circular and of this ministerial order, I refer you to my reply of 9 November last to Mr Clarinval's oral question No 14557. Respect for these different rules is of paramount importance for the safety of response personnel. Finally, with regard to the possibility of the minimum number of speakers required for certain actions, I have already received certain requests in line with yours. I had therefore proposed to the federations of French- and Dutch-speaking firefighters that I submit to me a joint proposal for possible changes. It was in April 2016, at a consultation meeting between my firm, the administration and the federations, that they were last asked to formulate a joint proposal. None of this has happened to me to this day. As a result, I changed my method of work. In concrete terms, I asked the Knowledge Centre to develop a benchmarking of standards for neighbouring countries. A report is expected in the coming months. Based on this analysis, I will propose an amendment to the Royal Decree to the federations. As a reminder, I would like to point out that these standards have been established following the advice of fire operational experts and that a downward change in these standards, which are essential in terms of safety of stakeholders, cannot be envisaged without a consensus within the profession. I will finally add that I visited the DINAPHI area a few days ago. Here too, the questions you are asking were addressed. I can envisage that the personnel plan would highlight a situation which, after some time, would lead to the departure of six people by self-taught. Compared to today, we still want to hire either volunteers or professionals. But at some point in time, we'll make it, given the personnel plan. In the meantime, I want to consider the possibility of counting the six firefighters at the fire site, not at the start. We are in the process of deciding on this matter. It's possible that the sergeant, the non-commissioned officer, will come immediately, perhaps from another barracks, to the place of the "delict." I will discuss the matter with the specialists. But this can only be possible if the areas have proposed a personnel plan which, at a reasonable time in time, confirms the departure of six people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u37	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, there are a lot of texts in place to refine all these regulations and we will consult them. I see that you have some flexibility, though. I thank you for that; I hope that we can find common ground and that this can all go well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u38	Minister, I have a question on a subject on which we have had an exchange of views on a number of occasions and which was also addressed in the media last week. In this way I would like to get the discussion we have had in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety, to exhaust and clarify the arguments, the arguments, and the final plans. The newspaper articles have already partly contributed to a better understanding of the issue, but a number of questions remain open about the specific aspect of the distribution of iodine pills in the context of the new draft nuclear emergency plan. At the meeting of the subcommittee you indicated that there was a draft plan which already made a number of choices and that you certainly wanted to give more insight into the considerations that have been made for the particular distribution method and the perimeter used, hence my questions. What criteria will that choice determine for the time being? You said yourself that the cost should not be the only criterion or the mandatory criterion, but how the choice is determined is not entirely clear to me at this stage. In general, has the European Commission already given its opinion on the new nuclear emergency plan? What is the cost of the different scenarios, the distribution via pharmacists or distribution at home? What are the advantages and disadvantages of the two scenarios? I'm schematicizing it like this. What other possible changes will follow after the parliamentary discussion in the subcommittee? During the discussions I congratulated you on the working methods and dialogue on the draft plan. That's a good way to work. It would also be a good thing if the debate produced a number of adjustments, which could then be in line with the adjustments made to the feedback from the European Commission, which may or may not be there, but that is also a question I have just asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u39	Mr President, Mr Calvo, following on from my reply to Question No 5, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group) 15860 by Mr Nollet, on 18 January last in the Committee on the Interior, I repeat the principles for the prior distribution of iodine tablets, as set out in the campaign under way. The operative part, as elaborated in the 2011 campaign within the 20-kilometre zone around the nuclear power stations, remains. Through the pharmacies in this zone, iodine tablets were and are distributed to the inhabitants and collections of this zone prior to any emergency. Residents and collections are invited and encouraged to pick up the tablets from the pharmacies. Iodine tablet stocks are available from Civilian Protection Operational Units for distribution, if necessary, at the time. As part of the current campaign in preparation, this operative part is retained for the 20-kilometre zone, but also a prior distribution of iodine tablets outside the 20-kilometre zone is organised across the country, in consultation with the Minister for Health. As the risk of thyroid cancer falls significantly according to age and distance to the incident, outside the 20 km zone, only specific, vulnerable target groups will be actively encouraged to use iodine tablets. These target groups are children, adolescents, pregnant women and breast-feeding women. This active encouragement will take place through healthcare professions such as general practitioner, pharmacist, pediatrist, gynecologist and nourishing woman. This is fully in line with the advice I have received which also reflects this focus on specific target groups. However, no one is excluded. Persons who do not belong to these specific target groups, e.g. grandparents who visit the grandchildren, can still obtain iodine tablets from the pharmacist at their own request. Both inside and outside the 20-km zone, the prior distribution will be made through the pharmacies, as the pharmacist is considered to be a trusted person who can provide the necessary explanation of the iodine tablets and their use. Iodine tablets are also still considered medication. This means that iodine tablets will always be available for this prior distribution at all pharmacies in Belgium. For the implementation of the aforementioned strategy, an additional purchase of approximately 46 million tablets is initially foreseen. The cost of this cannot be disclosed at the moment, as it is determined by the laws of the market. There will be a market survey and then we will know the cost. I would point out that if necessary, additional iodine tablets can be ordered. You asked me about the opinion of the European Commission. We have not yet received that. In principle, the Commission has until 24 February to give its opinion. Your last comment concerned any changes to the emergency plan after discussion in the subcommittee. For this purpose, I would refer to my reply of 10 January to the members of the Subcommittee to inform me within a period of two weeks of their comments on the draft emergency plan which they have submitted. So far, however, I have not received any comments. The two-week period is not 14 x 24 hours for me, but at the moment I have not received any comments from the committee members. If we receive comments, we will take that into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u40	Mr Minister, I have missed the formal agreement. I shall, however, make a quick effort to translate the points we have raised orally in writing. For me, a lack of clarity has arisen in the last few days. They opt for the pharmacists and not at home. You argue that from the idea that the pharmacy is the place where medicines are to be collected and where advice can be provided. You motivate that from the frame. For that argument, I do not want to remain completely deaf and blind. Nevertheless, for me, the question remains what that gives for the situation itself. Not everyone is going to have supplied themselves. The following is not entirely clear to me. I thought I understood that people across the territory would receive a letter and that there would be a specific campaign for certain target groups. It is not entirely clear to me how people throughout the territory will be called upon to go to the pharmacist to pick up the iodine tablets. In that connection, I have heard several versions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u41	Mr Calvo, the details of the campaign are still being worked out. She's not quite finished yet. After all, we must also get the opinion of the European Commission. So the plan is not yet final with a line under it. The campaign as such is also being developed. There's also a monitoring behind it. We're running a campaign. Suppose it happens by letter and by other means, and we find that in a radius of 20 km relatively few tablets are taken, then we can re-evaluate the campaign. We can then see that the campaign is not strong enough and that we need to step up our efforts. The intention is that people will come in a 20 km radius to pick up the tablets and also receive an adequate explanation. It is quite easy to monitor how many tablets are removed as well as whether or not we need to step up on a communicative level. That seems doable to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u42	Mr Minister, the scope, initially in a 20 km perimeter, is now being extended to the whole territory. To bury that, a house-to-house distribution seems to me to be a better option, but you don't opt for that. All citizens must be informed in a very direct manner of the fact that iodine tablets are now available to all pharmacists, including those outside the 20-mile perimeter. I will work out both scenarios in writing so that you can relate to them and perhaps combine the benefits of different scenarios. Pharmacists can frame this, but outside the perimeter there must also be a clear message and citizens should be encouraged to get those tablets. I'm sure you can consider that suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-31-54-commissie-ic578x.u43	Mr Top has not made any further comments, and his question will therefore be put to the Council. 16100 considered withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament 16240 by Mrs Temmerman will be converted into a written question.
