ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 17479 by Mrs Leen Dierick was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u2	Madam Chair, Minister, on March 28, 2017, you stated in the Economy Committee: "I am prepared to participate in the examination of Mr de Lamotte's proposals in this committee." I have asked your Commissioner for Consumer Protection to take stock in the Committee on the Economy on 2 May of the status of the case when I re-entered the text of the resolution I had tabled. You announced that an agreement was expected on the draft revision by 18 April. Minister, his only answer was to say that he had no comment to make. How surprised I was to hear him say that! I believe that this is not a constructive way to move forward on this crucial issue of consumer protection. The resolution dates back to last year. You announced progress for December 2016. It wasn't. I had already arrested you in March. When the matter is put on the agenda, nothing happens. Minister, therefore, I would like us to take stock of the progress of the matter. Since the previous inquiry, have you read the opinions of CREG and Test-Achats on my motion for a resolution? Test-Achats has submitted a text, which has been forwarded to you and to all members of the committee. The CREG has also sent you opinions. I have tabled amendments to this motion for a resolution following these opinions. Minister, have you consulted with CREG and Test-Achats as you promised to do in your response to my inquiry? What are the proposals for action that you are putting on the table now to move forward on this agreement? When we worked with your collaborator, there was no new input in terms of accuracy. I would therefore like to hear your views on these four questions on the problem of revising the 'Consumer in the liberalised electricity and gas market' agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr de Lamotte, at the meeting on 18 April, a final draft of the Code of Conduct was submitted to the participants who validated it with some corrections. Subsequently, this text was forwarded to all energy suppliers who have entered into contracts with consumers requesting to confirm their adherence to this adapted code and to propose deadlines for its entry into force. In the meantime, I have received confirmation from 17 energy suppliers. Due to the status of the Consumer component, there have been no new testing-achats consultations. Concertation on the extension of the code to SMEs is ongoing. My firm had an interview with representatives of CREG on April 25, an interview at which this point was discussed. The definition of small and medium-sized enterprises referred to in CREG is a post-factum definition. In doing so, it is not appropriate for suppliers to be engaged before or at the time of the conclusion of the contract. That is why another definition is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u4	Minister, I take note of your answers. To hear you, things are moving forward, but we need to move much faster since everything should have been completed by the end of 2016. Having said that, I would like to know why you did not contact Test-Achats again when the latter, on its initiative, sent a note to the Parliament which was forwarded to you. Furthermore, as far as the meter criterion for SMEs is concerned, is the 56 kVA criterion, in your opinion, a criterion for defining an SME (consumption of less than 56 kVA) in order to move forward with the revision of this agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u5	Mr de Lamotte, to answer your first question about Test-Achats, I should like to know that I have a meeting with this association every month to discuss all the points that it considers important. On this occasion, she is informed about the problem that you have raised. The answer to your second question is negative because this criterion is not practicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u6	Can you say more? Are there any technical criteria that make this impracticable? What is the basis of your decision? Fifty-six kVA is an objective criterion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u7	It's not about objectivity, it's about organization. In consulting the experts, I understand that it is not realistic to proceed in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u8	What will be the practical criteria? What are you preparing for? What beacons will be set, apart from ex ante, as you said earlier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u9	I'm looking for a lasting solution. My point of view was based on experts. The discussion is open and not over. You're more positive than the experts. If a solution is practical and lasting, I am ready to adopt it. I hope that we will find a solution soon. It's as simple as that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u10	Mr Minister, it is a long procession that this resolution because I have already put it, I have developed it, I have come with amendments. I delivered the text through an inquiry. This was re-discussed two weeks ago in relation to the analysis of bills and resolutions. I would like to know, Minister, if you can commit yourself, when the text comes back definitively in a forthcoming committee analysis, to be present so that you can really make the political choice you are going to make with regard to this subject which was to be resolved by December 2016. So I particularly insist that we move forward on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u11	Mr de Lamotte, I propose to send you all the impassable technical elements, to make sure that after this information, like me, you are also convinced that some solutions are not reasonable. I'm going to ask you to list all the technical elements and forward them to you. For example, I was informed that it was not possible to know about consumption before. This is one of the questions that are now on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u12	Mr. Minister, thank you for proposing to send us the documents. It is a sign of openness that I appreciate and of the will to move forward on this issue. But the resolution is broader than this problem we have just mentioned. I think there may be a need for interaction in this context. Your presence in committee when the case comes back will be a driving force to move forward. Our real goal is to be able to succeed. I said it and I say it again. This motion for a resolution as tabled is open for discussion with the other groups in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u13	Minister, a press article indicates that websites such as eBay, Amazon and AliExpress would offer the possibility to purchase USB drives with a memory capacity of 2 terabytes at a particularly attractive price from 16 to 20 euros. After a second research, I learned that keys presenting this ability required, if one wants to be serious, a disbursement of 1,600 euros. Therefore, a beautiful scam is circulating through these sites. This is not the first time I have seen such practices. Often, as you know, Minister, the indications do not correspond to reality, as these keys have a memory capacity far less than the one announced. Other scams exist in this area, but I would like to ask you a more general question. Minister, how can we strengthen the fight against such scams? Have you been made aware of this problem - which I do not doubt for a moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u14	Ms Jadin, so far, the Economic Inspectorate has not received any reports of such a practice. As a result, no investigation has yet been conducted. In the wake of your question, the Inspectorate has undertaken research on the Internet. At first glance, it does not appear that this problem is widespread. It is obvious that there is deception when a product does not have the characteristics that the manufacturer or seller has assigned to it. On the basis of article 6.97 of the Code of Economic Law, the Economic Inspectorate may take action against commercial practices giving incorrect information on the characteristics of a product. The FPS Economy is also taking many prevention initiatives. It warns against various forms of scams through press releases, its website and social networks. A brochure entitled "Stop scams" was published in spring 2016. This brochure includes a sheet entitled "Prices too low, beware". The brochure is available on the FPS Economy website. Mrs Jadin, if you have any further information, I invite you to pass it on to me. I shall then immediately ask the Economic Inspectorate to examine them. For the rest, following your question, I asked the Economic Inspectorate to analyse the situation a second time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u15	Minister, thank you for doing this research. I am fully prepared to give you the resources that I have. This is, on the one hand, an article published in my region. So far it's pretty commonplace. On the other hand, I have done some research and the consumer protection association in my region, Verbraucherschutzzentrale, has, too, largely echoed this in my region. Thank you for the measures put in place by your administration and for the research that the Economic Inspectorate has done at this level. It is very important to keep informed and, for the consumer, to remain alert about proposals that sometimes seem a little too attractive to be true.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u16	Madam President, Minister, every year, managers of SMEs are invited to complete numerous statistical questionnaires. Of these, one is particularly vexatious: that of the SPF Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy. In this form, various information is requested, such as the identification of the undertaking, information concerning the accounting year and accounting data. All these data are already available in the balance sheet which each company is required to deposit annually with the Belgian Moniteur. In addition, the social report also contains a great deal of information. Finally, social secretariats and hub banks also have a large number of data. Completing this form, for a company, is a considerable waste of time. This leads to important work which, in my view, is useless, since most of this information is known to the federal state. This is also a source of error, as many companies fill out this form with little rigour, given the time allowed, which makes the statistics approximate or even inaccurate. Minister, could you look into this issue? It seems to me urgent to stop the harassment of companies and to suggest to the SPF to consult the data that have already been collected instead of adding an additional document to the existing administrative arsenal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that, at all times, a screening of all surveys is carried out with the aim of limiting the administrative burden on businesses to a minimum. During the current legislature, I managed to reduce the investigative burden by almost EUR 1.75 million. The business structure survey that your question deals with is about 30,000 companies or firms. A similar survey is organised in all EU countries. The data are also collected at the request of the Institute of National Accounts to draw up national accounts for the National Bank of Belgium and for the tables of entries and outputs by the Federal Office of the Plan. In consultation with the Agency for Administrative Simplification, the structural survey has been simplified in recent years. The forms of the survey are based as much as possible on the structure of the annual accounts. Headings that contain questions that duplicate existing data in administrative databases have been deleted. If this deletion would alter the logic of the survey form, the duplicate entries are pre-filled instead of being deleted. Each year, the focus is also on a different sector of activity. Thus, the number of firms surveyed is more limited than in the past. The survey form has also been developed with particular attention to respect for the Only ounce principle. Thus all the data available at Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises (business number, name, etc.) are pre-filled. With regard to personnel data, DG Statistics relies on the data available to ONSS. This information is therefore not requested in the survey form. In comparison with the balance sheet centre, there is no duplication of effort as the survey requests a more detailed breakdown of the items in the balance sheet centre. The items in the annual accounts are already pre-filled in the survey form, provided that the annual accounts are available on time. If the Directorate-General for Statistics does not have the information on time, these items must be completed in order to allow consistency checks. You will have understood that we have already done a lot of work but simplification is a daily challenge, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answers. I see, indeed, that you have already done a great deal to ease the burden and I encourage you to make even more efforts in this direction. I know that there are still requests for things that have been pre-filled. You'll really have to look at things using the Only ounce formula.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u19	Mr Senesael is not present and his question No 1 lapses. 17954. Merged questions Nos 18183 and 18227 by Mrs Smaers and Mr Van den Bergh are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne's 18190 and 18188 were postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u20	Minister, the sector of direct sales at home suffers from a bad image because of the stalling, often seen as aggressive, and practised by unserious people, "charlatans", especially as the announcement of a press article. The Economic Inspectorate received several thousand complaints between 2014 and 2016 concerning the said practices. In order to put an end to these stalls which are harmful to the sector, it is incumbent on me that a code of conduct will be put in place with the companies, which provides for many binding measures. What is the agenda for the implementation of this Code of Conduct? What steps have you taken to encourage industry actors to collaborate in the development of a code of conduct worthy of this name? Will the measures related to the Code simply be formal measures or will some be binding?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u21	The Code of Conduct has already been finalized. Currently, some 20 direct sales companies have signed it. In mid-February, I submitted the text of the Code to some 50 companies inviting them to join the Code. Two in five companies responded positively from the outset. The list is available on the FPS Economy website. The Code of Conduct contains a series of overriding provisions aimed at excluding inappropriate influence, harassment and clearly defined and transparent information requirements during maintenance of sale, as well as mandatory information on sales documents, which must be legible and above all understandable. Failure by one of its signatories to comply with the Code of Conduct constitutes an unfair commercial practice within the meaning of Article 6.98 of the Code of Economic Law and is punishable by a fine of up to EUR 200,000. Compliance with this Code of Conduct will be monitored by the Economic Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u22	Minister, thank you. Indeed, this Code goes beyond good intentions. I think it is a very good thing that we have also put in place binding measures to ensure that they are implemented. We may have an opportunity to see the first results later. Like you, I think it was necessary to tighten the screw in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u23	Madam President, Minister, a bank has the right to unilaterally terminate its relationship with a customer. Of course, this doesn't happen all the time, but in the press we could read that it does happen all the time. Brussels MEP for Green, Bruno De Lille, came to the press with a letter from his bank that the customer relationship was stopped. No further explanation of the reasons for this decision was initially provided. In retrospect, it was found that it was not possible to register with a new identity card. Of course, my question is not about this specific dossier, I know that you cannot or do not want to say anything about it, but it is an example to explain this question. Indeed, there are several reasons why a bank makes the decision to terminate a customer relationship. I would like to make a few brief comments on the situation in which the bank is acting unilaterally. For how many customers, the relationship is cancelled unilaterally by the bank each year? What are the reasons why a bank can't or can't do that? How many times or how long should a bank attempt to contact its customer, for example, that it must register with a new identity card, before it may terminate the customer relationship? As a potentially involved person, like you, what is the difference between the classic customer and the so-called PEP, politically exhibited person, which we both fall under? Is the bank obliged to inform the customer of the reason for the termination? If not, why not? How can a customer possibly defend itself against the bank's decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u24	Madam President, Mr Klaps, my services have requested figures from the banking sector federation. The sector federation has no idea of any concrete figures relating to the unilateral termination of the customer relationship by the banks. Of course, it is the intention of a bank to retain its clientele, I assume, but if there is a need to end the relationship, this must be done in accordance with the usual rules and with respect for any notice periods. The relationship between the bank and its client is governed by the general rules on contract law. These are included in the general banking terms and conditions. The banks are also subject to strict rules relating to the prevention of money laundering or the financing of terrorism, the so-called preventive anti-money laundering legislation. Banks must therefore correctly identify their clientele at the start of the customer relationship and request the necessary information, e.g. private customer identity data, wrists to the activities of a legal person client wishing to open an account and ask who are the largest shareholders. On the basis of these identification data and information related to their activity, they can thus verify that the client's transactions correspond to his activity. Financial institutions are obliged to verify the pertinence of the identification and other information they hold of a client with whom they have a business relationship. Updating or updating this data is necessary as soon as they have evidence that this data is no longer up-to-date. In addition, this process is monitored by the supervisor who advises them to check whether the data they hold on their clients are still relevant for the effective prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. In other words, financial institutions are obliged to re-verify and, if necessary, update the information they hold about clients in view of the risk. If banks do not receive a response or if they do not receive updated information from the customer after repeated questions, they are obliged to assess this in the context of the risk management and vigilance obligation. If constant vigilance cannot be maintained, they may consider that the relationship should be stopped. Politically prominent persons or PPPs, such as Heads of State, Heads of Government, Ministers and Members of Parliament, are a specific category of politicians for which the law requires the bank to be extra vigilant in the event of possible money laundering. In the case of this type of customer, they will therefore have to carry out an intensified customer review and take appropriate measures according to the risk sensitivity, for example to determine the origin of the assets and funds that may be used by a PPP for a transaction during the relationship. This may include, inter alia, the need for the bank to speed up the periodic verification of customer data. The data of an ordinary customer should also be updated, but less frequently. The bank is not obliged to inform the customer of the reason for discontinuation. In certain cases linked to suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing, the bank is even legally forbidden to inform a customer of the reason why the relationship was terminated. If a bank did, it would be subject to high administrative sanctions. In case the customer has a complaint about the termination of the relationship with his bank, he or she may lodge a complaint with the complaint service of the bank where he or she was a customer. In addition, the customer can also go to Ombudsfin, the financial ombudsman. Finally, the customer is always free to take legal action. That answer is, of course, separate from any concrete example that could have reached topicality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for listing all this. You will not be surprised if I say that this procedure does not surprise me, because, of course, I know it. I think banks are doing everything possible to recruit customers, and especially for customers from a certain income line, there is sometimes even a hard fight. I understand the need for tighter controls on politically prominent people. For their part, politically prominent people might also be able to show a little more restraint if they receive communications from their bank, knowing that the bank is not allowed to respond in public.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u26	Madam President, Minister, Test-Achats alerts us to the procedures of some lenders who are asking a lot of questions. Indeed, they proactively "offer" money to consumers when they have not asked for anything and do not necessarily have the means to pay back. It is not only financial organizations that encourage this practice of credit, but also supermarket chains. The amount of the arrears of payment accumulated by the Belgians was, unless I am mistaken, more than 3 billion euros in 2016. In addition, the number of problematic contracts is increasing. The trivialization of credit as reported by Test-Achats is not an insignificant act. Easy access to money without measuring the danger of credit at high or very high interest rates can have serious consequences for some consumers, especially for the most vulnerable. Minister, do you share these concerns? What do you think are the most problematic types of contracts? What is the evolution of the Belgian arrears of payments? Do you consider that the current legislation is sufficiently adapted to inform and protect the consumer? What are the government's intentions in this regard? Should the Consumer Credit Act be amended? Do you intend to expand the prohibited stalling practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against over-indebtedness in general and the role of responsible credit in particular cannot be trivialised. They are one of my priorities. That is why, following extensive consultations with various parties, I developed an action plan in 2016. It has two components. The first part focuses on in-depth monitoring and strict enforcement of existing regulations. For example, the Inspectorate conducted a large-scale survey of consumer credit advertisements in shops and chain stores. It was found that six out of ten advertisements were not in order. In addition, I am working on structural measures aimed at better analysis of consumer solvency and more effective detection by lenders of credit that frequently leads to defaults. I am developing guides that will help the credit sector to assess the quality of consumer credit in a uniform manner. The second part is to make the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers (CCP) of the National Bank of Belgium more effective, which is indeed an essential instrument in the fight against over-indebtedness as it reflects the credit burden. A survey and symposium held last September provided interesting avenues for reflection. These proposals are currently being discussed in the Committee accompanying the PAC. The aim is to adopt regulations based on these proposals. I will pay particular attention to credit cards. In general, it can be seen that, with regard to consumer credit, the number of credit agreements with arrears is increasing. The PAC statistics show that the number of arrears has grown less rapidly than in previous years. At the end of 2016, there were 155,936 registered defaults. There has been a 1.5% increase over last year. For more information, I refer you to the detailed statistics of the National Bank, available on its website.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand you're paying attention to this situation. Indeed, the figures you are giving are of concern to us. In particular, you indicated that six out of ten ads are not compliant. That's quite challenging! I can only encourage you to examine the proposals that will be submitted to you, in the hope that they will be quickly put into practice, so as to stop this trivialisation of credit, with the risks of the over-indebtedness it generates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u29	Madam President, Minister, recently we read in the press that hundreds of jobs in the construction sector are threatened by a shortage of certain types of insulation materials. This would be due to technical problems in some factories producing these materials. Prices of these specific insulation materials have already risen by some 30% since the beginning of this year. Deliveries run into long waiting times and therefore some construction yards even lie still. Since these are specific types of insulation material, contractors can still use other types, which are obviously still sufficiently available on the market. However, the Confederation Build raises the question as to whether possible agreements and cartels are at the root of this sudden scarcity worldwide. And that, of course, is another problem. Mr Minister, have you had contact with the Confederation of Construction on this issue? Will you launch an investigation, if necessary, to determine whether price fixing and cartel formation are at the root of the scarcity of certain insulation materials? If so, how will you proceed? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u30	Madam President, Mr Klaps, next Friday I have an appointment with the Confederation of Construction to discuss the problem of scarcity of certain insulation materials. I have also contacted the Belgian Competition Authority on this issue. I was informed that no investigation has been initiated. If, on Friday, the Confederation Build provides me with elements indicating the existence of possible infringements of competition, I will, of course, forward this information as soon as possible to the Belgian Competition Authority, which will then be able to check whether it takes a different view from what it has done so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your brief but clear answer. If a calamity occurs, such as a fire in a large factory, which temporarily prevents a product from being delivered, everyone understands that. Here, however, we are faced with a very strange phenomenon, in which a particular product can apparently no longer be delivered. We're not here in Venezuela anyway. I hope that the problem can be resolved very quickly. If there is some sort of dark scheme behind this problem, I hope that we can get it out of the way quickly. I look forward to your conversation next Friday. We will certainly come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic664x.u32	Mr Daerden and Mrs Fonck are not present, so I suggest that their questions should be answered. 17302 and 18086 lapse and we end the committee meeting.
