ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u1	Mr. Secretary of State, Newfusion has recently implanted an RFID (radio frequency identification) chip under the skin of eight employees, such as pets. This chip opens doors and allows people to access their computers. In this case, only volunteer employees were equipped with the chip. But we can imagine that this is just the beginning of a process. Not only is this potentially a device that allows the employer to exercise full control over its employee. But here the chip is also incarnated, so the person concerned will not be able to get rid of it until after a small surgical operation. Moreover, this is a particularly worrying development because it would legitimize and later trivialize the puncture of criminals, migrants, sick persons or persons considered marginal in the name of security imperatives. Hence my questions: Do you consider this isolated practice to be consistent with the constitutional and legal principles of respect for privacy and the right to lead a life in accordance with human dignity? Are you considering, through the forthcoming adoption by royal decree or through the introduction of a bill, the prohibition of such practices? Have you made contact with the company concerned? Has a consultation with your European colleagues on the attitude to be adopted with regard to the body implantation of RFID chips been initiated? What are the current results? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u2	To the extent that Mr. Hellings and Mr. Foret's questions have the same purpose, I will answer them at the same time. At this stage, no complaints were filed with the Privacy Commission which was not consulted or initiated an investigation. For my part, I did not contact the company concerned to verify that it complies with the law because this supervisory competence belongs to the Privacy Commission. Therefore, I do not have any other information on this matter than that which has been reported by the press. I will therefore answer your questions by analysing how the privacy law would apply to the facts as reported in the press. The employee's privacy is protected by the Act of 8 December 1992, which requires the employer to comply with several conditions. First, the purpose of the processing must be determined and legitimate. In this case, if the facts of which I read in the press are correct, the processing of data by the chip would have the sole purpose of checking the identity of the persons in order to open the doors and the computers. Secondly, the data processed must be relevant to the purpose. In this respect, with the same reservation as before on the accuracy of the facts relayed by the press, the chip would contain only one identification element. It would not contain biometric data on the physical characteristics of the employee, nor would it contain a geolocation process. If so, there would be no trace of the employee. The chip could just be recognized by a detector, to open doors or to turn on its computer. The system supporting the detector would not retain the data linking the person to the chip. Second, the law provides that the person is informed and gives his or her free consent. That is, the employer must inform the employee and cannot link the employment contract to the fact that he or she agrees to be implanted with a chip. Also according to the facts reported in the press, the employees would have had a choice between the chip implanted under the skin or a chip bet on a ring. Finally, with regard to security, the press reports that the data is encrypted, deducing that the risk of piracy would be low. If all these elements are true, there would be no breach of the broad principles enshrined in privacy law at this stage. On the other hand, I wonder: when employees wear a badge or a ring on which a chip is placed, they can remove it outside of working hours. On the other hand, if the employee has a chip under the skin, he always wears it on him, so can he remove it after working hours, at home and on vacation? Is there not a risk of continuous processing of the employee's data? Would it not be necessary for this chip to be deactivated outside working hours in order to limit processing to the corresponding length of working hours? These issues deserve a broad societal debate. This debate could take place as part of the implementation of the new European Data Protection Regulation. This regulation strengthens the rights of the persons concerned, in particular with regard to freedom of consent. More specifically, it gives Member States the opportunity to adopt laws or collective agreements to ensure respect for the protection of privacy in labour relations. At Belgian level, there are already two collective agreements protecting the privacy of workers: collective agreement 68 on the protection of privacy in respect of surveillance by camera in the workplace and collective agreement 81 on the protection of workers' privacy in respect of the control of electronic networked communication data. The management of fleas in labour relations could be the subject of a collective agreement, but the initiative in this area falls within the competence of my colleague in charge of employment and labour. At European level, the right of initiative in this area belongs to the European Commission. Finally, as you already know, on the basis of this European regulation, I will shortly table a bill that effectively strengthens the privacy committee's powers of investigation and sanction. In this way, I will give the Privacy Commission the power to investigate more thoroughly sensitive issues, such as the implantation of a chip on employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) enters into force in May 2018. As a reminder, this binding regulation requires companies to demonstrate to their customers that they have put in place all the necessary measures to protect their data. Very heavy penalties are also foreseen: regulators will be able to impose financial penalties of up to 4% of an enterprise's annual turnover or EUR 20 million (the highest amount being retained), in case of non-compliance (Article 83.6 of the Regulation). Implementation raises a question, particularly in relation to SMEs and TPEs: companies with more than 250 employees have so far been obliged to designate a DPO, Data Protection Officer. This is not the case for smaller companies. Professional federations would be asked to inform companies but it would appear that most of them are not yet aware of the legal effects expected in May 2018, or even of the very existence of the GDPR. All this shows that for the moment there is a small float in relation to who does what and within what time and with what means... one year from the deadline. Mr Secretary of State, what sectors of enterprise will be mainly affected by this European regulation? Which ones will be targeted as a priority by possible controls? Here are some examples: real estate and financial activities: real estate agency, asset manager, accounting office, independent accountant. Horeca: hotels, guest houses, bed and breakfast. Health: retirement home, pharmacy, medical centre, doctor (and other medical activities), liberal nurse (care at the patient's home). Leisure activities: gym. What is the government's status in implementing the Regulations? How will it support companies in the implementation of standards? Will additional resources be made available to support small businesses and to enable the administration to respond to requests for questions and advice or to resolve disputes? Are you planning any enforcement actions that would clarify the scope of certain provisions of the RPM? Is the government planning a transitional phase with tolerance for SMEs and TPEs in terms of sanctions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u4	Mr de Lamotte, I fully understand the questions and concerns of companies regarding the implementation of the GDPR and I can confirm that, both during the negotiations of the GDPR and since its adoption, regular contacts have been held with companies and other economic and social actors to hear their views and answer their questions. In particular, my predecessor has instituted a privacy platform, which I have maintained, with representation from the various business federations, which meets regularly at my firm and with which I take stock of the implementation of the GDPR. This platform is also a forum for the exchange of good practice between sectoral federations. As such, I can cite the very good initiatives of the FEB which has published a concise and concrete guide to help companies comply; and that of Beltug which has produced interactive tools to help companies manage their contractual links with IT subcontractors. With regard to the practical implementation of the GDPR, Group 29, which brings together the data protection authorities of the European Union, has issued several guidelines, in particular on when and how companies must appoint a data protection officer and for which processing they must carry out a privacy impact assessment. The Privacy Commission, for its part, has prepared a draft recommendation for public consultation setting out a specific list of treatments requiring privacy impact assessment. This list will have to be formally adopted by the future Data Protection Authority, which will replace the Privacy Commission. The Privacy Commission has also published a guide on how to prepare for the PDGR. This guide is a good starting point. It also announces that it will make other recommendations in the near future, specifying: the details of the processing register to be kept by enterprises; the obligation to inform the persons concerned; the obligations concerning profiling and the obligation to notify in case of data leakage. In this way, companies should be able to determine precisely their obligations at the time of the coming into force of the GDPR. With regard to the transition period, if the GDPR has already come into force on 24 May 2016, the effective application is scheduled for 25 May 2018. Since the European Regulation is directly applicable in national law, it does not provide for transitional periods and the Belgian legislator cannot introduce them. In any case, my draft law establishing the new Data Protection Authority, which is responsible for monitoring compliance with the GDPR, places as much emphasis on its task of accompanying controllers in their processing of personal data as on its task of monitoring and sanctioning. For these purposes, I have introduced the function of a Data Protection Ombudsman who is looking for an amicable solution before initiating corrective procedures. They are the necessary stick to enforce the law, but they must not be an objective. The objective is and must remain respect for the personal data of citizens, their rights and freedoms. The Privacy Commission also shares the approach to the bill by recalling on its website that it has always favoured mediation and that it is only if a controller is deaf ears and formally refuses to settle that it will resort to fines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u5	[[...]] ...The Union of Middle Classes or UNIZO in Flanders. I do not see the momentum set up in relation to this. In particular, there is a request for information to be able to move forward in this context and to make information tools available to SMEs and TPEs. You say there's what federations do, but there's what the privacy commission has to do. We really need to set up this organised information exchange platform so that people are ready on time, especially since, as you said, this regulation applies directly, and sanctions too. It is therefore time to insist on this approach with SMEs and TPEs. I really insist on the desire for dynamism on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u6	Again, I share your concern. To be clear, organizations like UNIZO, etc. which represent small and medium-sized enterprises, are present around the table, as well as consumer organisations, etc. I therefore think that this platform ‘privacy protection' brings together the necessary stakeholders. UNIZO has also developed such a tool. Here too, efforts are being made. I also believe that the Committee on the Protection of Privacy must make further efforts. It has published on its website eleven or thirteen key elements that each company must validate or implement. An effort is already being made at this level. A lot of contacts have been made between different companies, sectors... and the Privacy Commission. With regard to fines, the Privacy Commission is an independent body and it is up to it to decide how to apply them. Our reform provides a lot of tools to encourage organisations and businesses to be ‘complicated' and not to have fines. However, if companies really do not follow the rules, it is important to have the option of sanctioning companies from an unfair competition point of view. If companies make investments to follow the rules and others do not, this creates unfair competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u7	Question No 17543 by Mr Emir Kir is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u8	Mr President, recently, the application "itsme" was launched. This smartphone application, which allows you to identify yourself digitally, can be used to make payments, sign contracts officially, communicate with the government and execute orders online. The app therefore has the ambition to cluster a number of services that are now offered by different apps. However, questions have been raised about the security of the system and about the privacy protection of the data collected through the application. The privacy policy of the application is not clearly and automatically indicated for users, as should be. This declaration also mentions a fairly far-reaching processing of the data, contrary to what was reported at the time of launch. The following data would be kept: identification data such as name, gender, address, nationality, date and place of birth, ID number and elD photo, email address and mobile number, possibly a delivery address and the employer. There are also safety data: details about your device, the status of your registration with the mobile operator, the country in which the user is located. When installing the application, the user gives permission to the SIM controller to transfer all these security data to Belgian Mobile ID. All transactions carried out with this app are also kept up to date. It goes without saying that this company will have access to a very large number of users' personal data. These dates are also available for all members, being all participating companies. There is uncertainty about the technical details of the application. There is a limited explanation on the website about the security measures taken, but these are very vague. In addition, several experts expressed their concerns on some digital platforms. To date, the company has not disclosed the source code. At least that was the case when we tabled the question. In this way, programmers and bug finders from that community could nevertheless help the government to detect errors, as happens with the popular and well-known Linux server management package. There is little communication about the potential risk derivatives of the use of such an app. Itsme is entirely in private hands, but it is intended that the government will make its sites compatible with the app in the coming months. By 2018 this will have to be completed, because then Tax-on-web and mypension will also be accessible via itsme. It is therefore a private initiative which will be closely linked to a number of public services. A number of questions can be asked. I come to my very specific questions, Mr Secretary of State. First of all, how was cooperation with this company set up? Did that happen through a tender? Secondly, why does the government opt for a private company that also works with private companies in the search for mobile identification options? Thirdly, what budget is foreseen for this cooperation? Fourthly, what about the security of the application? What guarantees does the government give about this? How will they be checked? Fifth, has the Privacy Commission given an opinion on the cooperation with the system? If so, what was the opinion? Sixth, is it in line with the new European GDPR data directive? Seventhly, what is your view on having one person collect all personal data about companies over government, banks and telephony by one private player? Does this bring with it new risk derivatives? Finally, why is the source code of this application not disclosed? What steps do you intend to take to make this possible and thus restore confidence in this system? It was a somewhat longer question, but I think it is important to go into this new application in more depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u9	Mr President, I am going to outline how some of your questions have been understood and followed up within my competence. At first I think the development of this identity application is the first in a long row. A number of companies have joined forces and have worked with the government to see how they could do better and safer authentication to access certain applications. In this case, telecommunications companies and banks in particular have joined forces. I think we will see a lot of such applications appear in the future. It is therefore a collaboration between the government, which has the necessary data to do the authentication, and private companies that often have a mark on what the government can offer in terms of innovation, technology and protection. In this respect, I believe that we have created a win-win situation in itself to facilitate that access, on the one hand for the consumer, but on the other hand we can, of course, also, through this PPP, call for strong security technology. What do we have today? You and I both use banking applications and others. We log in with a simple password, which is sometimes not well protected, is not strong enough or can be easily hacked. This application allows to add another layer of security to it. I believe that this application in the field of data security has been a step forward. Secondly, we must, of course, examine what data is being collected and what is happening with it. There it is quite clear that the existing privacy laws, and in the future the GDPR, will apply absolutely to them. Therefore, data will also have to be collected with permission and that data will also have to have a clear finality, in this case authentication. There must also be a clear framework for what can be done with this data. Consumers also need to be clearly informed about this. That is an absolute necessity. This is why an opinion has been requested from the Privacy Commission, which was positive about the legal framework. Yesterday, the Infrastructure Committee discussed a legal recognition procedure for electronic means of identification, such as itsme. That's important. Once they are recognized, they can also be used to log in to other government applications, as described in your question. This is an important stage that we must go through. We need to follow existing privacy legislation and GDPR rules in the future, but we also need recognition. There is a check before the actual consent is given and therefore before you can log in to those Belgian government applications. In this respect, the new legal framework imposes very clear and strict requirements, not only in terms of security, but also in terms of the protection of privacy. In this context too, it is important that the Privacy Commission has expressed a positive opinion and that it is certain that everything is in line with current privacy legislation. I would remind you that in the future the Privacy Commission will also be given additional powers to carry out inspections in the field and to check whether the GDPR is being effectively followed. For some of your questions, I have to refer you to my colleague De Croo. It concerns questions relating to the procurement and selection of undertakings. For this purpose, Minister De Croo and Minister Jambon have taken the lead from the National Register, also for a number of other digital applications. For these matters, I would like to refer you to my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u10	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. I will indeed ask the other relevant ministers for the answers that are still missing. You also did not answer the question about the issue of releasing the source code, unless you say that the matter is not within your competence. I thought you were authorized to do that. As far as the safety of the application is concerned, has sufficient control been exercised to ensure that the application is safe? When it was launched, a number of social media experts made some comments. That is beyond my head, it is very technical, but there was an immediate major debate on it. Can that safety be guaranteed? Have any controls been carried out on that? Is that checked out properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u11	We have always said that it was also agreed that the highest standards should be applied. I am not always with the latest encryption on a technical level either, but I am told that the highest European standards have been implemented. I also think that we can no longer ask for such an application. It should be done in this way, as the application gives effective access to sometimes particularly sensitive information. It is therefore logical that we apply the highest standard, the highest standard of security in that area. There were also a lot of misunderstandings at first. I've seen some comments on social media. I've been able to answer and point out a number of things. After that, after I explained it, people thought it was okay. I would particularly like to point out that it will certainly soon have to be in line with GDPR. Principles such as consent, finality and proportionality will have to be respected. Therefore, it is necessary that such applications pass that check before they are recognised. Otherwise, it is not possible to link those online applications to government data. For the source code, I must remain guilty of the answer because I do not know 100% of what the background is, in the specifications and the tender that happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u12	Question No 16528 by Mrs Stéphanie Thoron is transformed into a written question. Questions No 18418 by Mr David Clarinval and No 19442 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u13	Mr Minister, since 1 July 2016, thanks to Potpourri I, we have had a new recovery procedure for undisputed money debts. This allows entrepreneurs outside the court to recover undisputed money debts through a bailiff. This procedure is quick, simple and cost-effective. It should provide a huge reduction in the workload of the courts of commerce. The annual report of the bailiffs now shows that there are considerable differences in application in the different Communities. For example, 87% of the files come from Flanders and 13% from Brussels and Wallonia. I also read in that annual report that the bailiffs are asking questions about the fact that there is no time limit within which one can enforce against the service of an enforceable report of non-confession. It is feared that this may lead to abuse of this procedure. As a result, I have the following questions for you. How is the extrajudicial procedure experienced? Has there been an evaluation? Next week, this procedure will apply for a year. If so, what were the results? Do you have any idea of the impact on the reduction of workload for the courts of commerce? Do you have a visual on the average time savings? Do you have any explanation as to why the procedure in Brussels and Wallonia is less effective? Finally, is it not appropriate to set a time limit within which an appeal must be brought after the service of a report of non-confession declared enforceable, since the annual report again shows the fear that the door is open to abuse?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u14	Mrs Uyttersprot, an evaluation has not been carried out so far. She's planned. I've already received the following information from the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs. Since 2 July 2016, on entry into force, until 31 May 2017, a total of 20 690 files have been launched. In the period from 2 July 2016 to 15 April 2017, a total of 17 159 files were handled during the first phase. Up to the payment notice, 2 254 files were settled. This is 13 % of the total number. A further 4 564 files, or 27% of the total, were settled after service of the order for payment. For the period mentioned, 856 payment plans were also registered, accounting for 5% of the total. If we add up these different forms of handling, it appears that in almost half of the cases a settlement will be reached within a month between the creditor and the debtor. In the other half of the files, a report of non-confession must be drawn up after 1 month and 8 days, i.e. 9 090 times or 53% of the total. Furthermore, it can be concluded that 395 cases had to be closed because a dispute had been registered. In view of these figures, the first balance sheet of the new procedure is positive. There is no calculation today of the time savings generated by the reduction in workload for the courts of commerce. There is also no clear explanation as to why the procedure is being used less in Brussels and Wallonia. Unknown is unloved. In any case, the National Chamber provides additional information sessions in the south of the country. I met the Presidents of the Commercial Courts yesterday and they confirmed to me once again that it is a positive development, but that this is a cultural change for all the actors involved. A time limit to appeal is considered in the context of an evaluation, but there is such a general principle as:quae temporalia sunt ad agendum, perpetua sunt ad eccipiendum. This, in French, has to do with the inversion du contenteux. In Dutch: as long as someone can be surprised by the procedure in good faith, he must be able to resist and therefore we should not be strict about the deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u15	Minister, you announce that there has not really been an evaluation. However, you have already given one. You spoke of 45% that is arranged within the month. Those are pretty good grades. After all, giving 20 000 files in one year is not nothing. That is therefore a positive first evaluation. In the southern part of the country a little bit more can be done. After all, when we look at the figures and see how well they are working, we must continue to reduce the workload, also in order to minimise the costs to the debtors, which will create a win-win situation. That should also be the objective of this out-of-court settlement. The minutes of non-contested proceedings and the time limits within which opposition may be lodged may be re-examined after an effective evaluation. Thank you very much for the first results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u16	Mr President, Minister, with the adoption of the Potpourri III, the internment law of 5 May 2014 was amended. This also amends the law of 1 July 1964 on the protection of society against abnormals and custom criminals. This law provides that an observation in a psychiatric ward in a criminal facility should be made possible. The subsequent laws also provide for the establishment of a secure clinical observation centre, the former POKO for research into whether or not to be responsible. Potpourri III states that the inferences will no longer take place in the psychiatric wards in prisons, but only in a secure clinical observation centre. You will provide such an observation centre in Haren, but by 1 January 2020 at the latest. The observation can only be done by psychiatrists who have received specific training. No one has yet completed this training. In the meantime, a college of expert psychiatrists may be appointed. Those experts should be registered in a national register of legal experts which has been in force since 1 December 2016. I have the following questions. What happens to people who are being put into observation at the moment? Do you know how many people we're talking about? Where is this inobervation taking place at the moment? Is this what happens in prison? I think I remember being told that this was not advisable. However, I was wondering whether it would happen. How many interns have there been since the entry into force of the new law, bearing in mind the introduction of the threshold?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, the observation is a mode of pre-trial detention with the aim of checking whether the prisoner is suffering from mental illness within the meaning of the internment law. Such a clinical psychiatric observation study should be carried out in a specific scientific context, with a specific infrastructure in addition to experts and other expert staff. During the discussion of the Potpourri III Act, I indicated that such a secure clinical observation centre would be housed on the new Haren prison site. Observations in the strict sense of the law are not imposed for the time being. This was already the case before the entry into force of the Internment Act on 1 October 2016. As previously, in the case of serious criminal proceedings or in the case of complex psychological problems, the investigating judge appoints a college of experts to carry out a thorough investigation, each with the various experts studying, observing and analysing the defendant's disorder or behaviour from their expertise. To your last question, regarding the number of interned persons since the entry into force of the law of 5 May 2014, I am happy to answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I will indeed raise these numbers by means of a written question. But I assume, as you say, that in serious cases, a college of expert psychiatrists will be appointed during the defendant's stay in prison or in another facility. We can then ask ourselves out loud whether that is the place where this should be done and whether there are no other opportunities, for example in an FPC or something, in which observation centres are already housed pending Haren. I will give it to you for the time being, because there has already been a serious improvement in the field of internment. If we want to move forward on that step, it is certainly worth considering.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u19	Questions Nos 19361 by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot and 19446 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u20	Minister, on 6 January last, a digital hotline was launched, supported by 50 welfare organisations, namely www.meldpuntbewinding.be. The purpose of this hotline is to identify pain points about the reigns. An advisory committee composed of representatives of those 50 welfare organisations will examine these notifications, discuss them with police chiefs and peace judges and collect the reports in an annual report setting out recommendations for improving legislation. The annual report will be delivered to the Supreme Court of Justice and to those responsible, hopefully involved. I have every confidence in that, by the way. In February 2016, you replied to an earlier question that the draft royal decree on the list of health conditions had almost been completed. Minister, has the royal decree with the list of diseases now been finalized? If so, when is its publication planned in the Belgian Official Journal? If not, what is the deadline for finalisation? In the meantime, have any recommendations been delivered to you following registered notifications via the digital hotline?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u21	Mrs Uyttersprot, as you say, I replied to a previous parliamentary question that the draft royal decree with the list of health conditions has almost been completed. The draft Royal Decree implementing Article 492/5 of the Civil Code, as well as a new and extended model of medical certificate, were now submitted to the Wilson proficient working group. Although this was very thoroughly prepared by three experts psychiatrists, the members of that working group themselves questioned the added value of Article 492/5. According to the members of the working group, practice shows that such a list is not necessary. The purpose of the drafting of that list was mainly to reduce the workload for the peace judges, who themselves indicate that they can easily deliver customized work. For this reason, the preliminary draft for simplification and computerisation of the legislation on will failure, which I announced in my policy paper of November 2016, will be proposed to delete the above-mentioned provision. On the other hand, the working group points out that the quality of the medical certificates so far is insufficient. For this reason, measures are currently being prepared to improve the quality of medical certificates in conjunction with the Minister for Health and the Order of Doctors. This will also support the peace judges in the implementation of the customisation. For example, the addition of the relevant documents, on which doctors based themselves in drawing up the medical certificates and on a system of accreditation of doctors specialised in the field. To date, I have not received any recommendations for improving the legislation on the willless. I can note that the hotline has only been active since the beginning of 2017, which may be an explanation. A French-speaking hotline has also been developed. The objective of the hotline is also very broad. It also aims to improve the way in which the law is applied and implemented by the actors concerned. This is related to the way people are received, the way they are handled and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u22	Mr Minister, I will read your answer again. If I understand correctly, the royal decree with sick images will certainly be finalized. I would also point out that the question is rather limited in the field and that there is a good understanding of who should apply the regime regime. The question is to what extent the royal decision on the ground will still have to prove its worth. However, in the spirit of the 2014 law, more and more family members and people close to their pupils are appointed directors. The King Baudouin Foundation has now apparently also published a brochure explaining in human language what governance is. This is important because it is mostly about laymen who are not always familiar with legislation. I understand that everything is subject to constant evaluation and advice by the hotline. We'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u23	Questions Nos 19513 and 19514 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u24	Mr President, Minister, recently I read in the newspaper that the Court of First Instance in Hasselt, following a procedure of a betting office against the Limburg municipalities of Beringen, Heusden-Zolder and Houthalen-Helchteren, considered that the planting of gambling offices could no longer be restricted by police regulations. Betting offices are governed by the Gaming Act of 1999 and are controlled by the Gaming Commission. To set up a gambling office, the candidate operator must adhere to strict rules and go through a tough selection procedure. After this procedure, the Gaming Commission grants the licences to the manager of the betting offices. In principle, operators can establish themselves anywhere after obtaining a licence as long as they comply with the KB which regulates their geographical distribution. However, local authorities often try to prevent betting agencies from appearing on all street corners, for example near schools. The Court of First Instance in Hasselt has now decided that the police regulations cannot be above the gambling law and that the operators, who have obtained a licence, should also be able to start with their betting office. The situation is different for the operation of slot machines halls. For this purpose, there must be a covenant concluded beforehand between the municipality of establishment and the operator. The decision to conclude such an agreement falls within the discretion of the municipality. The Covenant shall determine where the gaming equipment is to be located, as well as the detailed conditions, opening and closing hours, and opening and closing days. In addition, the Gaming Act provides for a ban on the establishment of slot rooms in the vicinity, among others, of educational establishments and places mostly visited by young people. These are legal instruments that, for example, my home town of Bruges has used before, to curb a proliferation of luna parks. Hence my question, Minister. Why can there not be the same rules for the betting offices as for the slot rooms, so that the municipalities can send them here?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, on Monday 19 June an article was published in The Belang van Limburg, which referred to a judgment of the Hasselt Court of First Instance. It considers that police regulations should not prohibit the establishment of betting offices. The problem of the limited capacity of municipalities in the gambling sector in their territory has been clear to me for some time now. My policy cell therefore already met on 13 April the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities, with the intention of developing concrete policies together with the municipalities. On 15 May the VVSG passed on its proposals. These proposals were put forward at the Interkabinets Working Group meeting on 6 June. The municipality can indeed play an important role in the control of gambling and in the protection of the player. My bill includes a scheme for the establishment of new betting offices similar to those for the gaming halls. Article 43/4 of the Gaming Act provides that the betting operator shall conclude a covenant with the municipality of establishment, as a condition for obtaining a licence from the Gaming Commission. This agreement determines where the gaming facility is located, as well as the opening and closing hours and who supervises the municipal supervision. In addition, in order to strengthen the position of the municipalities, Article 43/5 provides that the gaming establishment may not be located in the vicinity of educational establishments, hospitals and places mostly visited by young people, unless the municipality allows a reasoned derogation. I am pleased to inform you that your concerns have already been taken into account before you put your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u26	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u27	Minister, on 16 May last, you immediately reduced the eligibility dates for the provisional release of sentenced persons whose custodial sentence is three years or less, to one sixth to one quarter of the prison sentence. The argument for the measure is the rising prison population and the associated threat to the living conditions of the detainees and the working conditions for the guards. The problem of overpopulation in prisons is obviously not new and has recently been the subject of a debate on the proposal on provisional detention quotas, which I hope will not become a reality. In this sense, we have some sympathy for the temporary intervention you have decided on, but again it sends a bad signal, both to the citizens and to the magistrates. It undermines, in my opinion, the credibility of the prison sentence and the general punishment. How long will the measure be maintained? What is the impact of the decision on the prison overpopulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u28	Mrs Lambrecht, I propose that you answer your questions at the same time as you answer your questions about the extended penitentiary leave and the early release. The two are measures to ensure humane detention in our prisons. First of all, I can tell you that it is without prejudice to my intention to incorporate the whole of the sentence into a single legal framework. A draft Penal Code is currently being finalised for government consultations. The Code builds on the principles of the new Criminal Code, of which Book I was already approved by the Council of Ministers at first reading. It is logical and coherent that both codes will enter into force at the same time. In the meantime, we must pursue a policy that takes into account the reality and gives maximum respect for the humane treatment of detainees and the good working conditions of the staff. We could not foresee that the available capacity would fall back from 9 802 places in July 2016 to 9 261 places currently. Especially the closure of two pavilions in Merksplas after a fire and an additional wing in Vorst are responsible for this. During the same period, the number of prisoners has also increased slightly. Against this background, instructions on leave and early release should be read. In the case of leave, the measure shall apply to prisoners who have already been engaged with good results and who have been sentenced to more than ten years and have been punished by criminal penalties, excluding specific categories such as terro-convicts, sex offenders. I would like to stress that it is only a question of convicted persons who are only a few months from their eligibility date for a possible conditional release. The measure of extended leave fits in with the classical guidance of prisoners at that stage of their detention and in this respect does not deviate from the guidance of prisoners during normal penitentiary leave. The wearing of an anklet during leave is therefore not relevant in that context. In the case of early release, the instruction shall not set an end date. I will, together with the government, monitor and evaluate the measure. The impact on the inmate population is estimated to be about 150 less on a daily basis. Most of those sentenced with sentences of up to three years' duration are executed outside prison under electronic supervision. However, persons without a right of residence are excluded from this. It is therefore mainly the category between three and ten years, as well as those who are exempted for other reasons, who benefit from the regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u29	Minister, is it intended that I should read out the second question first? After all, I didn't get it right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u30	Mrs Lambrecht, I have answered them, perhaps in my haste. However, my answer covers both questions at the same time. We were of the opinion that they belong together and that is why I answered them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u31	Mr Minister, let me take a look at my second question. I remember that will not be worked with ankle bracelets. I would also have liked an answer to the following question. When the people concerned enjoy the regime of a week in prison and a week out of prison, it seems to me to be a new situation, which needs a new kind of guidance, which is foreseen. It doesn't just require separate cells and separate cell blocks. This guidance also provides for teaching people to be part-time prisoners, namely to spend a week in prison and stay outside for a week. It seems to me very difficult to find work in these circumstances. In this context, are there any opportunities for those concerned not to work for a week or a week? So there are a lot of uncertainties. It is a very difficult measure, especially in the field of guidance. Those were the questions of my second question, which I am now integrating into my two joined-up questions, in particular about the ankle bracelets and about the guidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u32	Mrs Lambrecht, I think I have already answered the question about ankle tyres. Of course, although this is another regime, we have a great deal of experience with the limited detention regime, where inmates only spend the night in prison. As you can see, work has often been found in ordinary society. However, you can count on the assistance of the detainees concerned in consultation with the justice houses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u33	Mr President, Minister, I am not pro, but thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u34	Minister, I heard that, in order to gain a better view of weapons held by citizens without the necessary authorisation, you will organise a new amnesty period early next year. That is what you said on Friday when you received the research "The Belgian illegal firearms market in the picture" from the Flemish Peace Institute. The amnesty period will run from 1 January 2018 until 31 December 2019. Citizens will have one last chance to declare their weapons and obtain a permit for them. The amnesty was one of the answers you gave to the investigators' report on illegal possession of firearms and illegal firearms. Another answer was that from September onwards there will be a pilot project for the introduction of the so-called PACOS system, a registration system for beliefs, including seized weapons. The researchers of the Flemish Peace Institute had called for this in their report because the existing data sources, such as the Central Arms Register and the General National Database, are incomplete or not usable for analytical research. The researchers Nils Duquet and Kevin Goris also found in their report of a good 100 pages that the arms policy in our country is very "incident driven." For example, a new arms law was introduced in 2006, following the dramatic shooting of Hans Van Temsche in Antwerp on 11 May 2006. The recent terrorist attacks in Paris, on 13 November 2015, and in Brussels and Zaventem, on 22 March 2016, also led to increased political attention on the subject of weapons possession and weapons traffic. The National Security Plan 2016-2019 also specifically asks for a better picture of the illegal firearms market. Following the presentation of the report, you replied that work is currently under way on the development of the PACOS system. In September of this year, a pilot project will be run by the police. In the meantime, you and your colleague Mr Jambon, the Minister for the Interior, would also like to see whether the quality of registrations can be improved in the shorter term by standardising the procedures for the Central Arms Register and the General National Data Bank and by further strengthening the role of the reference persons for weapons in the police. Minister, does the foregoing mean that the control has failed so far? Is it not better to improve control in particular rather than count on the spontaneous declaration of illegal arms owners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, before answering your questions, I would like to point out that the amnesty period will run from 1 January to 31 December 2018 and not until the end of 2019. In order to better combat illegal possession of weapons, I have already implemented several measures. You know that the wiretap and the night search were made possible to track down those crimes. Nevertheless, these far-reaching detection methods will not be used for any form of illegal possession of weapons. A study by the Flemish Peace Institute shows that the largest group of illegal weapons owners are not the serious criminals, but they are gun lovers who, for example, have inherited a weapon without applying for a permit. For this reason, in accordance with the coalition agreement, a final amnesty period will be organised which will apply only to licensed weapons, but not to prohibited weapons. This should encourage citizens to declare their weapons, register them and then get them to commit, neutralize or sell them. My announcement that registration in the Central Arms Register and the General National Data Bank can be improved is not about the registration of the legal possession of weapons, but about the seized weapons. The Peace Institute found that registration is not always of the same quality. For example, mistakes are made in completing the technical characteristics of the weapon. This does not promote the traceability of weapons, nor does it improve the image of illegal possession of weapons, which is why I can examine whether this registration can be improved in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u36	Thank you, Minister. I'm very curious. In a few months' time, I will ask you how many people have spontaneously signed up their weapons to get a permit for them. I hope that it will be a large number, so that it is not a measure for nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u37	Questions No 19596 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux and No 19604 by Mr Raf Terwingen are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u38	Mr President, Minister, I have reports that some 50 prisoners should be sleeping on the floor in Ghent's prison at the moment. They would not even have a full mattress. Moreover, there are fungal problems in the cells and smokers and non-smokers are still locked up together. As a result of the rationalisation of prison staff, activities in Ghent have been reduced to a minimum this summer. This isn't gonna happen anymore. The possibilities for calling and showering are also reduced. The absenteeism and the shortage of staff greatly increase the pressure on staff. I've questioned you about that before. Add that leave is often not allowed and you will understand that there is a great deal of frustration among staff. The fault is certainly not with the management, it must also row with the belts she has. They're structural problems. We hear and read in the media that the prison population is falling. In recent months she has risen a little bit, but in the longer term she has fallen. However, this does not seem to improve living conditions in prisons. Such situations are often inhumane and a modern rule of law is unworthy. This is also detrimental to the atmosphere in prison and the relationship between the prisoners and the penitentiary staff. In addition, our country risks being condemned again for human rights violations. This situation must be dealt with and resolved immediately. This can't wait till after the summer. The European Court of Human Rights has already condemned Belgium for the circumstances in which some prisoners must live. The complaint was then about the prisons of Lantin and Vorst. I have a few questions about this. First of all, is it true that prisoners have to sleep on the ground in Ghent? Is the number of 50 inmates correct? Secondly, since how long has this been the case? Thirdly, are there other prisons in which sleeping conditions are so bad? If so, which one? Fourthly, what is your reaction to this situation? Fifthly, what have you done in recent months in terms of living conditions in prisons? Sixthly, what action will you take to resolve this situation in the short term? Seventh, by when will you ensure that this will be resolved?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u39	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, with regard to your first two questions, the population on 27 June is 406 prisoners. There are currently 50 inmates sleeping on a mattress on the floor. Since October 2016, the population of this prison has risen from around 360 to 370 prisoners to now more than 400 inmates. As for your third question, the prisons in Hasselt and Antwerp also sleep on an average of 50 prisoners on a mattress on the floor. In Turnhout, Oudenaarde and Bruges this number varies between five and fifteen prisoners. The problem is less common in French and Brussels prisons. As far as your fourth or seventh question is concerned, it is obvious that this situation cannot last too long. I took the initiative to create additional places in the prisons of Beveren and Leuze, as allowed by the DBFM agreement, i.e. a number of additional places subject to additional remuneration. The additional capacity that will be available after the summer in some prisons, such as Oudenaarde and Leuven-Central, as well as the cooperation with my colleague from Health for the further transfer of the internees to the FPC Antwerpen from the end of August and to other regular care institutions, good for a hundred places this year and additional 100 places next year, will further reduce the population. As you heard in my reply to Mrs Lambrecht's question, I have worked out two teachings which will have an effect on the prison population. The first concerns the penitentiary leave, on which I explained in my answer to question No. 19578 by Mrs Lambrecht. In addition, a temporary derogation has been made since 8 June from the eligibility dates for the provisional release of convicted persons subject to one or more custodial sentences, the executable part of which is three years or less. These initiatives also ensure that between 250 and 300 prisoners are expected to spend less time in prisons on a daily basis. So all together it's about six hundred places that I can save. It is obvious that only the implementation of Master Plan III will provide a lasting solution to this problem. Only yesterday I met with all the persons responsible for the prison in Haren. The implementation of my plans and of the Master Plan III in particular obviously requires time, without reminding you of the calvary tour that it is not rare to build prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u40	Minister, I believe that your answer shows that the situation is indeed serious. The need for prisoners to sleep on the ground is, of course, unacceptable. You say that there are mattresses on the floor, but according to my information they are not really mattresses, they are described as thick mats. There may still be some discussion about this. It's about 50 cases. There are also problems in other prisons. The situation is not sustainable. This is also linked to the problem of smokers and non-smokers who have to sit together. This makes the situation difficult and almost unviable for the prisoners, but also for the penitentiary staff. You indicate that in the short term solutions are possible in Beveren and Leuze, due to an extension. Will there be enough penitentiary staff to answer that? After all, if there is extra space, there will also have to be additional staff. I can see you nodding now, but I understand from your answers to previous questions that there is a bit of a tight spot on the employability of penitentiary staff. I hope we will not end up in a hot summer. Everything must be done to find a solution. You're trying to be creative with other measures. I have reservations about this, but since I have not put any specific questions to it, I will not go into more detail now. I understand that this raises practical problems. If prisoners are staying in and out of prison for a week, where should they go and how will they be succeeded? What happens to the orders, for example? If they haven't been inside for a week, they can't make orders for the week in which they have to be inside. There are therefore many practical questions in the concrete management of prisons and living conditions. In my view, these issues should also be taken into account when new measures are being developed. In any case, I will continue to follow the problem very closely. I hope, together with you, especially with the opening of the FPC Antwerp, that a few weeks or months of structural extra space can be found in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u41	Mr Minister, after a lot of reports last week, mainly in The Belief of Limburg, you announced last Thursday that you would draw up a new gaming law. We have the same concern, namely to ensure that the biggest bet is the protection of the player and not the winning figures of the gosperators. A year ago, I wrote down this concern in a bill which provides for the minimum age for gambling up to 21 years, a reduction in the number of gambling offices to 600, a link with an EPIS system and so on. The figures speak for themselves. Profit increased to 787 million euros on an annual basis. People are literally invited to gamble. There are aggressive advertising campaigns and betting offices that shoot from Maasmechelen to De Panne like mushrooms. The downside of the coin looks much less beautiful: the number of gambling addicts is estimated at 45 000 and last week mayors were crying out for power over the lack of control over the insertion of gambling offices in their municipalities. Minister, gambling does not deserve normalization in our society. Gambling is not something that should be part of everyday life. I therefore welcome all your actions in this regard. Minister, what specific measures and adjustments do you intend to take with regard to the protection of the player? Will you include the specific proposals I have made, such as raising age, registration with the electronic identity card and linking it with the EPIS system? Are there any other adjustments that you are experiencing, for example reducing the number of gambling offices? Are the adjustments also applicable to the National Lottery? If not, why not? If so, are there any other measures you would like to take? Finally, in what other ways do you want to strengthen the impact and decision-making power of local authorities? Are you, for example, going to translate the current non-binding advice they can provide into a binding opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u42	As mentioned earlier, Mrs Van Hoof is preparing several draft royal decrees and a preliminary draft law. They are the first legislative package submitted to the approval of the Council of Ministers and Parliament. The aim is for this package to be submitted to the Council of State before the recess. Let me give you the guidelines of this package. The virtual gambling phenomenon is inserted into the list of automatic gambling games, which may only be operated in the fixed betting offices. Following a tolerance policy of the Gaming Commission since 2012, they are thus embedded in a strict protection framework. For example, the number of monoplay terminals allowed is limited to two per betting office, the age condition is set at 21 years, there should be a clear indication on the screen that the fictitious games on which one is betting are concerned. An exclusion system EPIS is introduced for the betting offices. The royal decision to restrict publicity for the online gambling market, which has been announced for a long time, is ready. It also imposes strictly general operating rules on online operators, which should better protect players against gambling addiction and waste of money. A significant volume reduction in gambling publicity was developed in consultation with the media. Another royal decree focuses on the reduction from 1 000 to 600 betting offices, which, according to the law, could still settle in our country. There are 684 today. The 84 in total will disappear in an extinct scenario. Upon cessation of activity or withdrawal of authorisation, it shall no longer be published as a vacant post. The machines that developed from recreation to true gambling machines in the public places are now treated as real gambling games and brought under the supervision of the Gaming Commission. They are limited to a maximum of four per café and are subject to strict operating and control rules, such as, for example, the application of the eID for checking the age condition of 18 years and implementation, which can only be carried out with coins of a maximum of 2 euro. Because it makes no sense to regulate without effective enforcement, the sanctioning power of the Gaming Commission is strengthened by the obligation to impose sanctions, rather than the optional option. In doing so, the control role of the municipality over the betting offices was aligned with that of the slot machines halls. From now on, the establishment of a betting office also requires a covenant with the municipality, which includes at least the place of establishment and the opening and closing hours of the betting office. At the same time, it provides that the betting offices are not allowed to settle in places where minors come or near institutions for the treatment of gambling addiction. The municipality can only derogate from these conditions if it motivates the reasons in detail. The full package must now be notified to the European Commission, which will set a period of unchanged policy for three months. In fact, these rules do not apply to the exploitation of gambling by the National Lottery, since it has its own system of regulation and the legislator has decided, in Article 3a of the Gaming Act, that it does not apply to the National Lottery. As far as the organisation of bets is concerned, the National Lottery is equally subject to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. When it comes to addiction issues, it is not just about gambling but also about tobacco and alcohol. We must act on attractiveness, availability and affordability. I note that in all your proposals you are working on the attractiveness through advertising and by raising the age to 21 years. You will work on availability by reducing the number of betting offices from 1 000 to 600. The Covenant is also a very good thing. Local government gets a say in this. In short, I note that my bill will be without object and that I will have less work in the autumn. I suspect you'll come up with a design. In terms of affordability, the National Lottery is a stepping stone. It is not the lottery tickets that one buys in the daily trade that will lead to addiction, but the online game, which is very affordable, and easy to play. In view of the expertise I've been building up, I've tried to play online, and it's really easy to go from one to the next and raise a lot of money in a short time. It's not your jurisdiction, but in my bill, I also propose to raise the age to 21 years. I'm sure I'll keep this for online play. I'll question Minister Wilmès about this. Anyway, I support all the things you come out of the closet with. We'll do this together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u44	Minister, according to Belgian legislation, many white weapons are freely available, but cannot be sold via the Internet or via mail order companies. However, they have been for sale on second-hand websites such as 2dehands.be for many years. There are also several for sale at this time. Furthermore, their terms specifically state that they may be offered on their website as long as they are not sold to persons under 18 years of age. That's a violation of the arms bill. 2dehands.be is explicitly mentioned in the circular on the application of the arms legislation as a platform on which no weapons may be sold. First of all, were you aware of that practice? Secondly, do you agree with me that the practice is contrary to the arms law? Thirdly, what action will you take to stop these violations? Fourthly, by when do you expect this to produce results?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u45	Mr Van Hecke, the arms law of 8 June 2006 does indeed provide for a ban on the sale or sale of weapons via the Internet. This is also explicitly mentioned in the circular of 25 October 2011 on the application of the arms legislation. The reason for this is that, in the case of a distance sale, it is impossible to meet the obligations imposed on the transfer of the weapon. The ban applies to all weapons, including the white weapons. According to the aforementioned letter, a weapon is an object designed or manufactured for the purpose of threatening, injuring or killing humans or animals. According to that definition, a kitchen knife, for example, is not a weapon and a sword. The breaches of the site 2dehands.be were also reported by a concerned citizen to my administration. He pointed out to the editors of 2dehands.be that such practices could give rise to criminal prosecution. The detection and prosecution of criminal offences are, of course, the responsibility of the local police and the prosecutor's office. If further irregularities on that site are detected or detected, those services will be informed accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic699x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I assume that if an official is informed of such publication or offer on the website, he will take the necessary initiatives in relation to the competent court under Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
