ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I quote: 'Your regret sounds sincere'. Prove it by depositing money to the Emilie Leus Fund and come back next month. That remarkable message was given by the Bruges police judge Peter Vandamme on 7 March to a driver who was caught driving last summer with 1.54 promille alcohol in the blood. He received approval from his fellow judge in Dendermond. On 3 April 2017, the defendant was ultimately reduced in sentence, after promising to make a gift of 750 euros to the Emilie Leus Fund. The EUR 1 200 fine became a complete fine with postponement and the one-month driving ban was suspended for half, just enough to cover the period of withdrawal of the licence. Even before the ruling, the Bruges police judge was burned down in an open letter from the President of the Supreme Court of Justice as a judge who invented a form of punishment outside the law. The open letter bore the title "Under the rule of law, magistrates must also behave! I have two questions, Minister. First of all, what is the attitude of the public prosecutor in this case? Secondly, will the court stand in court in this judgment, or is it a matter of appeal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u2	Mrs Lambrecht, as regards your question about the judgment of the Bruges police judge of 4 April 2017, I can inform you that the prosecution has informed me that it will not appeal the verdict because it is lawful, both for the appreciation of the facts as well as for guilt, punishment measurement and justification. The judge may and must take into account the facts, circumstances and personality of the perpetrator. Guilt insight and regret are part of that. In this case, the judge has pronounced a sentence within the legal fork. The penalty was even above the minimum, since the lapse of the right to direct was pronounced for 15 days while this was not legally mandatory. There is no need to take initiatives. On the written question No. 933 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu of 4 April 2016 on the number of service sentences imposed by the courts in 2013, 2014 and 2015, I can report that the competent services have prepared the answer. In total, in 2013 the courts imposed 9 657 community service sentences, in 2014 9 747 community service sentences and in 2015 10 212. The extraction date of these figures is 30 January 2017. I will reply quickly to your written question and I can already give you the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u4	Minister, the law on collective debt regulation has been amended several times in recent years. However, a number of changes remain disputed and a number of uncertainties or uncertainties remain. Are you considering an evaluation and, where appropriate, a revision of the legislation on collective debt regulation? If so, which issues will be addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u5	Mrs Lambrecht, the collective debt regime is indeed part of my policy plans. The legislation in question has already been the subject of a crucial amendment, namely the Law of 25 December 2016, the so-called potpourriwet IV, which already established a legal basis for the establishment of an electronic platform for the procedural settlement of collective debt regimes. The establishment and management of the central register of collective debt schemes has been entrusted to the OVB and OBFG desk associations. My administration is currently preparing a draft law adapting the further processing of the procedure to the possibilities offered by such an electronic platform. My intention is to make the procedure more efficient in the first instance and thus to reduce costs. I would also like to ensure that transparent data on the procedure are kept. The information provided by the entry into service of the register will then allow us to thoroughly evaluate the functioning of the collective debt regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u6	Mr Minister, do you have any idea when the new regulation will come?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u7	As always, it must be as soon as possible. The new draft law will certainly be submitted in the coming autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u8	Mr President, Minister, in March 2016 the Council of Europe identified a series of guidelines for the prison and probation services on radicalisation and violent extremism. The report addresses, inter alia, the need for evaluation of the measures put in place in this particular context, the need for support for prisoners, and the need for monitoring. A year ago, the Deradex wings came into being in Belgium and several guidelines drawn up by the Council of Europe are clearly not followed or, at least, not in a systematic manner and without real transparency. The evaluation has indeed been carried out, but, to the best of my knowledge, the administration does not communicate the results of the evaluation. At the supervisory level, it appears that there is no administrative or judicial remedy available to detainees who have been placed in Deradex cells and the criteria for their assignment to this section are unclear. Finally, detainees in the Deradex wings do not have any real specialized follow-up. Minister, have you followed the guidelines of the Council of Europe? What is your action plan in relation to these monitoring and control issues? Why are the results of the evaluation carried out in Belgian Deradex wings still unknown? When can we dispose of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u9	Mr President, dear colleague, as of 1 April last year there were 16 detainees in the Ittre section and 10 in the Hasselt section. The methodology for the approach to radicalism is still being developed. Actions that are developing for radicalized prisoners are currently documented in two road maps. One concerns the internal management of this target group, the other concerns cooperation between the prison services and the services of the Communities. With regard to the internal approach, screening and investment policy are the most developed and operational. The classification of radicalized detainees in an ordinary prison, satellite prison or in a Deradex section follows a screening procedure, which aims to identify detainees on the basis of the following criteria: a person under arrest or sentenced as a leader of a terrorist group, a person under arrest or sentenced for having broadcast or made available to the public a message with the intention of inciting the commission of terrorist offences, a person who, during his detention, holds a jihadist speech combined with the manifestation of leadership qualities, a person who, during his detention, recruits other persons (detainees, personnel or external). The Community's approach is also developing and varies from one Community to another. Exposing these differences in detail here would lead me too far. There are currently 16 Dutch-speaking and 15 French-speaking Islamic Councillors, representing 22.65 full-time equivalents over a planned framework of 27. The Belgian Muslim Executive will propose 4 new candidates to complete the framework. A royal decree on the status of chaplains of recognized cults, counsellors of recognized cults and moral counselors is currently being prepared. It will include provisions on the rights and duties of such persons. In terms of staff training, investments are currently being made mainly in the widest possible basic training for all staff. Other development training modules are still under consideration. With regard to administrative or judicial remedies, it is worth recalling that the decision to place in the Deradex sections is an administrative decision and that, like all administrative decisions issued by the administrative authorities, it can be appealed to the Council of State (administrative court competent to deal with appeals against administrative acts). The guidelines of the Council of Europe, like many other recommendations such as those of the UN or the RAN Network, have been taken into account in the development of the policy. Evaluation of the Deradex wings is being finalized. The results of the latter are therefore not yet known.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u10	Minister, thank you for all this. I've been a little flooded with information about the number of inmates, screenings, religious counselors, etc. I had to wait until the end of your answer to learn that you didn't have the evaluation report. It was this report that I was most interested in, in order to have maximum transparency. We had the opportunity, during Prison Week, to visit Ittre prison and in particular the Deradex part. We realized that, unfortunately, there was not much follow-up or specific detention being initiated for these detainees. I will certainly come back to you to receive the results of this evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u11	Mr. President, Minister, Saturday, March 18 was held at the City Hall of Tournai on the return of the bar. He gave a very interesting speech, but above all, he was extremely concerned about the measures taken by the government on matters related to justice. One point concerning the abolition of certain places of justice for economic reasons was raised and raised the worst concern among the citizens of Tournais. More specifically, questions were raised about the future of the Tournai courthouse and a possible move of certain places of justice from Tournai to Mons. As early as May 2015, I asked you about the publication of your Masterplan Bâtiments judiciaires. In your reply, you made it very clear that this report would be available from December 2015. Minister, we are in April 2017 and the design of the future judicial landscape has not yet been developed. Could you tell me when it will be established? Are there any avenues for transferring audiences from Tournai to Mons?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u12	Mr President, Mr Delannois, as regards the logic of the Masterplan for judicial buildings, I refer to the answers I have already given on this subject. You will understand that reconfiguring the judicial landscape - including, in this case, the distribution of judicial buildings - is a complex and sensitive matter. It is complex because many parameters have to be taken into account, and sensitive because many actors are involved. The reflection is being continued. The general principles must first be defined. It is necessary to develop a long-term vision and this cannot be done in haste. I hope, by the summer, I can be more precise. You know that the three phases of the reconfiguration of the justices of peace have just ended. In any case, all decisions had been taken and they should now be implemented in parliament and on the ground. As far as the courts of first instance are concerned, I am preparing for the moment a plan that you have been reporting on for some time now, which will be called "The Court of the Future" and in which I will establish very precisely how I intend to address this issue. But there is nothing to fear: we are not going to rush. I apologize for asking you so much patience, Mr. Delannois, but unfortunately, I can't help it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u13	Minister, thank you for recognizing my patience. You're telling me not to fear anything. I'll take you to the word. But you have to put yourself in my place as an acting mayor. I assume there is no cause-and-effect relationship, but just before the elections, Mr. Reynders, Ms. Marghem and Mr. De Clerck brought some baptismal dredging on the baptismal bottoms. A new courthouse was to be built. The problem is, despite the dredging, we've never seen the child. Is this an elephant? Or will there ever be a new courthouse? We already had plans for a construction at the Luchet d'Antoing wharf. The file goes from National Defence to the Régie des Bâtiments to National Defence. I think the new courthouse at the Luchet d'Antoing is indeed buried. You say it's a complex file, there's a lot of sensitivities. I admit it. I hope in any case that you will take my tournaisian sensitivity into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u14	Questions Nos 17848, 17853, 17854 and 17855 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Question No 17940 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Question No 18016 by Mr Raf Terwingen are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u15	Mr Minister, I come from a very active police area which is known not only for the many flash checks, but also for the many alcohol controls. It is not always appreciated, but the policy is paying off when we look at the results on road safety. Locally we score well in terms of alcohol consumption behind the wheel, but the drug use in traffic is apparently an increasing problem. This is not systematically monitored, on the one hand by a lack of resources, on the other, because it is a time-consuming procedure. That is why I have a number of questions about drug use in traffic, in particular about the saliva test. Can you give an overview of the number of saliva tests carried out by the different police zones in 2015 and 2016? What budget is foreseen for making saliva testing available to the police zones for this year? How big was the budget last year? Some police zones lack saliva testing. My own police zone is planning to buy it for itself, because the Justice Department is lagging behind in delivering it. How many saliva tests were delivered to the different police zones last year and the year before? How many saliva tests were ordered by the police zones? Is that relative? How many saliva tests do you provide in 2017? Minister, in practice it is now eight minutes on average before the results of the saliva test are known. It is therefore absolutely not evident for the police teams working on alcohol controls to carry out systematic testing in this way. It takes too much time to pull someone out on the basis of visible elements. Then the team is just out of service to perform the rest of the checks that evening properly. A while ago there was a kind of electronic saliva test, the result of which should be available much faster. It is already being used in other countries. When will these electronic saliva tests be made available to our police zones? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u16	Mrs Pas, on the basis of the public procurement for the supply of saliva tests, I can confirm that, for 2015, 15 400 tests were ordered on the two contracts that existed in 2015 for a cumulative amount of 139 349 euros. For 2016 21 620 tests were ordered for an amount of 208 469 euros. To the extent of the appropriations available, the quantity requested by the police zones shall be converted into an order. In exceptional cases, the large quantities requested may need to be adjusted in order to be able to meet all applications at one time within the appropriations available. Such action is exceptionally necessary in order to comply with all the requests of the various police areas. It is, of course, annoying that it is necessary for the Justice Department to make certain choices regarding the distribution of saliva tests for the police. For some time now, we have been asking the police to make these choices in accordance with the different police zones themselves. For 2016, the number of tests requested was 25 855 units. As I mentioned, 21 620 were ordered. Justice does not have information on the use of saliva testing by police zones. This has already been requested from the umbrella supervisory bodies, such as the Local Police Permanent Commission, so that consumption behaviour can be better adapted to orders. For 2017, the annual needs for saliva testing communicated by the police have been taken into account. A budget of as much as 432 000 euros was allocated to deliver the 36 000 units requested. Due to the budgetary caution imposed for 2017, that budget can only be committed quarterly. At present, an appropriation of EUR 108 000 has been committed, on which orders are executed. In the meantime, the application for a further commitment disc of EUR 108 000 is pending for the second trimester of 2017. In reply to your question on electronic saliva tests, I can tell you that this test, like the currently used saliva test, is also an immunological test. However, the positive or negative result is automatically read without the interpretation of a police department. Some of the electronic saliva tests currently placed on the market are certainly good and are indeed used abroad. When the legislation was launched, the integrated police did not opt for an electronic saliva test because of the cost and because the technology was still in full development. The saliva tests have improved enormously in recent years and will improve in the coming years. The current non-electronic tests also work well. The reading time of the electronic saliva test takes at least five minutes, depending on the type. Currently, a number of firms also work hard with regular tests to get the time span to five minutes. Although I can understand the police's argument about reading time, I think it is particularly important that the reading of the result can be done as objectively as possible. Switching to a different, more sustainable toolbox for saliva testing, along the lines of the evolution of the apparatus for the breath test for alcohol consumption in traffic, should be the subject of consultation with my colleague, responsible for the integrated police. Purchasing durable materials for testing, either breath testing or saliva testing in road traffic, is more likely to be part of the field of integrated police equipment, while the current purchase of single-use saliva testing is seen as legal costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I am, on the one hand, pleased that, despite the budgetary squeeze in which you have to manoeuvre, the budget has almost doubled compared to last year and that you recognise that this is an important priority. There is a real need for a safe transport policy and, in a broader sense, a health policy. I will certainly look again at the figures you have given me. In all budgetary constraints, the budget should not play a role in terms of safety for these sustainable tests. That remains, in my view, the most important priority for a government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u18	Mr. Secretary, I've asked you a lot of questions about the weapons test bench and the destruction of weapons. In one of the last answers, you gave me an overview of the number of weapons destroyed in recent years. This varied between eleven and twenty thousand weapons per year, 95% of which were requested by the Registry. There's a special KB on pay rates. The latter dates back to 2012. The wage rates at the pilot bank are EUR 9.85. At the beginning of the arms legislation it was 5 euros, then 8 euros. So this has increased over the years. This therefore involves large sums of money. According to Article 24 of the Arms Act, which refers to Article 42 of the Criminal Code, the confiscation of the weapons is subject to the costs of temporary detention, transport and destruction on the trial bench of the sentenced person. I've consulted a number of judgments and judgments. However, I do not see the budget cost of this. This means that these costs will not be recovered. For many years now, therefore, the justice system has been failing. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Are steps being taken, or have you already done so, to remedy this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u19	The cost of destroying weapons cannot always be recovered from a suspect or a convicted person. For example, in the event of breaches of the arms law, the court may decide to dismiss if there are no other previous circumstances in relation to the person concerned which make a prosecution appropriate. Such dismissal may then be linked to the condition that the person concerned voluntarily surrenders the weapon and pays a friendly settlement. In that case, there is no conviction and the State bears the cost of the destruction. If the defendant is prosecuted, convicted and forfeited, the court costs will indeed be borne by the convicted party. In principle, nothing prevents the budget of these costs from being included in the judgment. The test bench charges a forfait per weapon destroyed. Unfortunately, I have no idea to what extent these costs are actually recovered from the convicted person. Perhaps the FPS Finance, which is responsible for the collection and recovery of the court fees, can clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I had already expected that the ball would be passed on to the FPS Finance, but I can tell you that the FPS Finance has nothing to do with this unless the costs are budgeted in the verdict. The costs can be poorly budgeted in the verdict if they are actually foreseen. There is a KB on court fees in criminal matters and there is a circular on court fees in criminal matters which is published regularly in the Belgian Official Journal. That letter contains a whole series of items that are subject to court fees and the amounts charged for them. The destruction of weapons is simply not included. I would like to accept today that, in the event of dismissal, it may not be possible to charge, but something can also be done about this. Minister, the first thing that will certainly have to be done is to amend the letter and the royal decree. Otherwise you simply cannot recover those costs. If we make the account from 2007 to now, I'm sure we've already lost some pretty good money. I believe, however, that the Justice Department could use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u21	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about a very interesting subject which is that of detainees in prisons in Belgium under a false identity. A mayor of a Kingdom entity has recently witnessed such a fact, namely the death of a person locked up under a false name. The inmate, by the name of Mr. X, was locked up under the name of Mr. Y. He died there under the name of Mr. Y and was buried under the name of Mr. Y. This fact of course causes a real problem, in particular security, and has dramatic consequences for the person whose name was borrowed. Minister, allow me to ask you the following questions. Can you give me the number of facts related to the false identities found in the country's prisons in 2016? What are the pre-incarceration controls to detect such incidents? What measures are envisaged to prevent this kind of incident from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u22	Mr President, Mr Delannois, DG PPE does not have the data on the number of facts related to false identities. The identity checks of prisoners are, as a first step, carried out by the police officers who make the arrests. Detainees and detainees under false identity or aliases are persons arrested without identity papers and mostly foreigners. These persons declare identities and sometimes nationalities that are not their own. At the time of the nut, the procedure provides that the identity of the person presented is verified. She is questioned about her surname, first name, date of birth. Some difficulties may arise in the case of foreign persons speaking in a foreign language. Sometimes the registry officer has to call on someone who can translate these questions. If there is a discrepancy, the authorities who requested the arrest are consulted (e.g. a material error in the spelling of the name or date of birth). The nut is only made when the certainty of the identity of the person to be incarcerated is acquired. His prints and photo are then taken in the Sidis Suite program under the given identity. Information on aliases is received later only if the person is already known in the files of the judicial identification under one or other names. If the person without identity documents is not included in the records of the judicial identification and maintains the announced identity, it is impossible to avoid aliases. DG PPE will shortly have an APFIS computer programme, via Sidis Suite. Inmate fingerprints will be automatically sent to the police, who will confirm the detainee's identity. This new system will make it possible to better identify aliases and merge folders after nuts. With regard to identity fraud and the use of pseudonyms, the various public services, such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Police, the Foreign Office and the prison administration, are working together to improve the exchange of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u23	Minister, I am reassured that you are trying to find solutions through a new system. But it still has to be admitted that it is quite intriguing. Imagine that one person died with another's name! If Mr. Delannois went to prison under the name of Mr. Geens and Mr. Delannois dies, I guarantee you that Mr. Geens will have a lot of problems to resurrect administratively. In concrete terms, this has already happened! I'm always amazed that we can be incarcerated under false names. I talked about it with members of the judiciary, who didn't seem too worried. As a mayor of a city where a prison is located, I am somewhat worried, not to say anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u24	Mr President, Minister, yesterday, 25 April, was the international day of awareness of parental alienation and exclusion. The purpose of that day is to bring awareness of this problem to the attention of the actors in the field, namely magistrates, police, psychiatrists and psychologists, but also to family and friends of people who deliberately or unconsciously manipulate their children to the detriment of the other parent. I have asked you a number of questions about this in the past. In the meantime, parental deprivation is similar to partner violence and is also prosecuted and punished in this way. That is certainly a step in the right direction. However, this is not enough. After all, evil has already been done at the sanctioning stage. The aim must be to restore contact between the rejected parent and the child, and this is not achieved by sanctioning alone. It is therefore important to be able to intervene from an initial suspicion or a first violation of rights of access. Hence my next questions. The Flemish Children's Abuse Forum would have provided a number of policy recommendations in connection with fighting divorces and parental deprivation. A number of recommendations would also have been made. Apparently, these recommendations date from June 2015. In response to a previous question, these recommendations have not yet been discussed. I wonder if this has happened by now. If so, what are the results? Is there any substance in it for effective measures? Do you envisage a plan of action to counter parental alienation as early as possible? If so, how do you see it? Have you been able to organise a survey at the level of the public prosecutor and the police about the application of COL 4/2016, which should therefore be regarded as partner violence? Does this lead to an adequate approach to the problem? What conclusions could possibly be drawn from this survey?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u25	I can inform you that the policy advice of the Flemish Forum on Child Abuse was discussed and approved on 23 March 2015 and subsequently delivered to the relevant ministers, namely the Flemish Ministers of Welfare, Education, Youth and Sport, and the Federal Ministers of Health, Home Affairs and Justice. It is important to note that this policy advice deals with the wider problem of fighting divorces, which can be regarded as a special form. The VFK has clearly defined the problem of parental deprivation as a special form of child abuse. The VFC's policy advice contains several concrete recommendations addressed to the relevant ministers. The recommendations in the area of justice have already been taken concrete steps. For example, a comparative legal study on hearing children in other countries has been carried out. However, the overall coordination of the implementation of these policy opinions is a responsibility of the VFC itself. In reply to your second question, I can inform you that the working group on family courts will discuss the issue of parental withdrawal at its meeting in May. It is indeed intended that the concrete approach should be discussed at that time, emphasising the timely recognition of the problem and the search for an appropriate response at each stage. In the fight against this phenomenon, a mix of civil, protectional and criminal measures will be necessary. At the same time, attention will be paid to the need for proper training of magistrates and lawyers, and in a subsequent phase, of course, there will be coordination with the Communities. Finally, I would like to inform you that, at the request of my policy cell, a questionnaire on this issue was sent by the administration to a number of reference magistrates, youth and family. In the meantime, we also received a number of answers. Despite the low response rate, some conclusions can already be drawn. Answers show that parental withdrawal is a difficult concept for which very few tools are available to get a clear picture of it. The replies confirm that parental deprivation can indeed be seen as a form of non-release of the children, Article 432 of the Criminal Code, thus falling within the scope of the COL 4/2006 on criminal policy on partner violence. In this respect, however, it appears that there is a particular need for the formation of magistrates who find it difficult to establish these links. The aim of this training could be to learn to recognise the signals of effective parental deprivation and to gain insight into the tools needed to address this problem. As I have indicated, these conclusions will be further discussed in the Working Group on Family Courts, in the presence of the expert network of magistrates in youth and family affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u26	Minister, if I understand you correctly, some concrete steps will be taken on the basis of the recommendations of the Flemish Forum. A working group of family courts will also look for solutions in May. It is already important that the problem is known. Solutions can only be offered to known problems. Every time, both in your answer to the second question and in your answer to the third question, the training of magistrates comes back. In my view, it is really important to recognise the problem, so that it can be remedied, preferably preventively, and at a later stage where necessary by sanctioning. This sanctioning can only, as has just been said, act as a response and as a stick behind the door. The problem is not solved. We really need to work on a solution right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u27	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of April, the Belgian press, through a network of investigative journalists at European level, became aware of reports written by imams and religious advisers based in Turkish embassies and consulates to monitor Gülenist supporters in Europe. One of these reports, dated 26 September 2016, was prepared by the Councillor for Religious Affairs of the Turkish Embassy in Brussels. At the request of the Turkish Directorate for Religious Affairs, he pins all the associations allegedly linked to Fethullah Gülen, be they commercial, cultural, artistic, media... The Fedactio Associative Cupola is also named there. This practice, which is in line with the purges carried out by the Erdogan regime following the failed coup d'état of 15 July 2016, poses a real problem of interference in our internal affairs and even an infringement of our national sovereignty, in that it is neither more nor less about control and espionage by an embassy, its diaspora. The European Commissioner for Foreign Affairs has thus held that the matter falls within the competence of States which feel they are injured. Therefore, I would like to ask you the following questions: Are the facts verified by the intelligence services? As suggested by the article of 2 April published in the daily newspaper Le Soir, do you think that the author of this report could be struck by a measure, possibly up to the distance, possibility that the R Committee recalled in its report in 2012? This report of Committee R drew attention to the fact that such practices were not permitted under our rule of law. If this is not a measure of declaration of persona non grata, it may be a non-extension of accreditation or even expulsion to the country of origin. Have any competent bodies, such as the National Security Council, already met and pronounced on this issue? First on principle, then on the case at hand. Has the State Security been requested for a monitoring investigation? Article 11(1), (5) of the Organization Act of the intelligence and security services entrusts him with the task of "searching, analysing and processing intelligence relating to the activities of foreign intelligence services on Belgian territory", regardless of the precise function of the members of those services. Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u28	Mr Maingain, I have been asked to answer the question initially put to Mr Didier Reynders on the question of State security. In view of its mission to detect activities of espionage and foreign interference on Belgian territory, the Sûreté automatically pays the necessary attention to the problem concerned and to signals which may indicate that problematic activities are carried out on Belgian territory. Since the political developments in Turkey, following the failed coup d'état, the Sûreté has devoted particular attention and resources to the consequences of this event and to the tensions it has caused, particularly within the Turkish diaspora. If it were apparent from these investigations that it was necessary to intervene, the intelligence service would logically inform the federal and federated authorities, if necessary. For an answer to your question on the sanctions and measures you list, I refer you to my competent colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u29	Minister, I understand that the subject is delicate. We also know the role that Turkey plays in other matters. I will ask your colleagues about other aspects. It is clear, however, that it would be difficult to understand whether the government would accept longer the interference of a representative of the Turkish Embassy with Turkish nationals or dual nationals in Belgium because, indisputably, all this is part of a strategy of political influence of the current regime. So I am not at all an advocate of the minister's tendency. I must admit that in terms of principles, I also have more than reservations about this trend, but whatever the case may be, there are fundamental freedoms in our country and we cannot accept this desire of a third State to control the thought and freedom of thought of its nationals or bi-nationals established in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u30	Mr President, Mr Minister, your colleague, the Minister of the Interior Mr Jambon, announced in the summer of 2016 his willingness to create a national guard. In broad terms, this guard would relieve the army and the police of certain tasks currently assigned to them. My question is based on this perspective, and more specifically on the role that the National Guard will play in certain missions of the security corps, now assigned to local police, relating to the supervision of detainees transferred between the prison and the courthouse. Minister, what role will the future National Guard play in the missions of the security corps? To what extent and in what way will this National Guard assume the functions of a security corps? What will be the new status of the members of the security corps, since the creation of this national guard will mean that the security corps of the justice system will be transferred to the interior?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u31	Mr President, Mr Delannois, all the tasks currently carried out by the security corps will be carried out, after the transfer of staff to the new Directorate of Security, by the staff of this new department. Security personnel will be transferred administratively to the Federal Police through legal and regulatory provisions. Specifically for him, a number of provisions will be made to protect his rights acquired in a transitional status. Negotiations with staff unions have already been partially concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u32	Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u33	Mr President, Minister, an article in the newspaper La Meuse on 18 April states that one of the two suspects suspected of having prepared an attack would have been in connection with the Belgian jihadist movement. As a reminder, three kilos of TATP, an explosive, weapons, ammunition bags and an Islamic State flag were seized in Marseilles on 18 April. The preparation of a terrorist act against several candidates in the French presidential election is suspected in the leader of the said individuals. I had addressed this question to Mr Reynders and it was redirected to you. According to the Paris prosecutor, François Molins, one of the suspects, although of French nationality, had links with the Belgian jihadist movement, and links with radicalised people of Verviers. Minister, what about, at this stage of the investigation, the possible links between the Belgian jihadist movement and the perpetrators of this failed attack? Do you have more information about the authors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, with the agreement of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, it can only be reported that the French judicial authorities have repeatedly requested their Belgian counterparts by letter rogatory in the days preceding the arrests in Marseilles. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has requested an anti-terrorist investigating judge from Liège to perform the duties requested. In addition, judicial information was already under way in the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office concerning one of the two individuals arrested. I cannot give details of the facts themselves, given the secrecy of the information and the secrecy of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u35	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u36	Minister, the Brussels courts, with the exception of the peace courts, are divided into a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking department, each with its own operation and staff. The previous prosecutor at the police court in Halle, Mr Steppe, wrote the following in the newspaper when he retired: "What happens in some police courts in Brussels, I do not think is possible. There they say for people without insurance a sentence for nine tenths with delay. Then you'd better get rid of the files. I could refer many cases to Brussels because the defendant is French speaking. But instead, I speak French. In a double interview in De Standaard of 5 January 2017 with Mr.Hennart, court president in Brussels, and Thierry Freyne, prosecutor in Halle-Vilvoorde, the latter has written: "It is objective that French-speaking investigators arrest people less quickly than Dutch-speaking. Last time we had a file of burglars caught in the act but not arrested. He was followed by the President of the Tribunal of Brussels, Hennart. The mayors in the Rand, like all those who argue in Brussels, also feel that French-speaking judges punish more mildly than Dutch-speaking judges. This makes it even a practice for suspects to shop and always choose French as a language of justice. A certain unity of justice could be expected within the same judicial district. Mr. Minister, can you instruct the Supreme Court of Justice as a neutral body to conduct an investigation into the unity of justice within the judicial district of Brussels, and in particular the differences in the case law of similar cases between French-speaking and Dutch-speaking courts? Why is that, or why not? I know that in the past a lot of audits have been carried out or are still in progress before the Brussels Court, but perhaps not with regard to that particular question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u37	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, you will not be unaware that the Supreme Court of Justice can carry out a special investigation into the operation of the judicial system. That is a power vested in the Joint Consultative and Investigation Committee of the Supreme Court, pursuant to Article 259a16 of the Code of Justice. Such a special inquiry may be initiated on its own initiative at the request of a majority of the members of the Chamber or Senate and also at the request of the Minister of Justice. However, I must point out that, in exercising its powers, the Supreme Court of Justice is also bound by the Constitution. According to Article 151 of the Constitution, the Supreme Court is obliged to respect the independence of the members of the judiciary in the exercise of their judicial powers and cannot therefore exercise control over the content of a judicial decision. The way in which Dutch and French-speaking judges rule and use the provisional detention in criminal proceedings affects the content of the judgments and thus exceeds the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u38	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u39	Question No 17918 by Mr David Clarinval is postponed. Mrs Jadin, under item 15 of the agenda, you have a question with a question from Mr Sebastian Pirlot and a question from Mrs Isabelle Poncelet. Can we postpone it since they are absent or do you want to put it down?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u40	No, Mr. Chairman, I don't want to put it down now because I want to be collegial. However, could I get the answer? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u41	Joined Questions No 17777 by Mr Sebastian Pirlot, No 17933 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and No 17969 by Mrs Isabelle Poncelet are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the subject of this question is often the subject of my region. In 2013, the number of internees staying in the psychiatric wings of Belgian prisons was 1,130. By the end of 2016 this number had been reduced to 750 internees. Persons placed in the psychiatric wings of prisons do not receive the appropriate care required by their condition. Minister, what is the current number of internees who are still in prison, not in a social defence institution? How many of these internees are of German-speaking origin?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u43	Mr. President, Mrs. Jadin, as of April 25, there were 727 persons interned in prisons. It is difficult to provide accurate data on the number of German speakers among them. Please note that German speakers often speak French, so they can be included in this category in central government data. In Paifve, two internees are registered as German-speaking, but there are certainly also other German-speaking people among the 180 internees in Paifve, who are taken as French-speaking. My services do not have data on the possible presence of German-speaking internees in other prisons in the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u44	Minister, according to a study published on 20 April 2017 by the Council of Europe, many journalists are reportedly exposed to violence, intimidation and self-censorship. The first most reported form of intrusion is physical violence and the second is cyber-harassment. Over the past three years, nearly one third of the journalists who participated in the study had been physically assaulted. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to know if you know the number of physical attacks on journalists in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u45	Mrs Jadin, I have read the Council of Europe press release on the recent study to which you are referring. I do not yet have the study itself. I would like to point out that this was done by means of a questionnaire to a sample of 940 journalists in the various States concerned. It is therefore dangerous to draw specific general conclusions to characterize the situation in some Member States. The time limit set by an oral question does not allow me to obtain information from the statistical analysts of the public prosecutor's offices. Moreover, the statistics kept by the public prosecutor's offices do not make it possible to extract the number of cases involving violence or threats against journalists, or cases in which the violence or threats are related to the exercise of the profession of journalist. It is also not possible to provide more detailed information about the authors. These variables are not included in the nomenclature, which is understandable. According to our information, there are only a few known incidents in our country in which journalists have indeed been threatened or subjected to violence. Our rule of law has established numerous safeguards for the protection of press freedom and journalism. I personally attach importance to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u46	Thank you very much, Minister. We are already two, since I too attach great importance to this matter, which is essential in a rule of law such as ours and in a democracy that we always want to defend.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u47	Minister, in Itter's prison, where there are serious criminals and suspected terrorists, a strike took place because the telecommunications security system did not work for the prison staff. The system is an internal communication system between guards, which allows each other to call upon each other when an emergency occurs. According to my intel, since the launch six months ago, the system has only been operational for one week. Are you aware of the system's failure? Has the problem been resolved by now? If so, when and how? If not, what is needed to solve the problem and by when will it be solved? Is the same system used in other prisons? If so, in which prisons is it used? How well or how badly does the system work there? Was it also stopped in other prisons because of the malfunction of the system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u48	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the installation to which you refer is effectively a communication system consisting of walkies with a geolocation system for a person in distress. The system has been rolled out in all Walloon and Brussels prisons. In a number of Flemish prisons, their installation is a fact. The system is generally functioning properly. The problems we experienced are mainly due to the fact that the installation was completed in a number of establishments shortly before the long-term strike in spring 2016. As a result, the knowledge gained during the training sessions has been lost and not sufficiently updated afterwards. The preparation of its use was also disturbed. Itter's prison was the last place the system was installed. The installation was effectively completed shortly before the strike. Lack of experience in the use of the equipment, the procedures to be applied and incorrect expectations of the system have led to problems with its use. These problems have hardly anything to do with the system itself. The training centre of Marneffe is planning additional training courses. There is also strong support from the installer. Soon the system must be able to be used to its full potential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If I understand correctly, the system is already working again and the people who have to deal with it can also deal with it at the moment. So the problem has been solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u50	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I give you the floor for your question on the prosecution of animal cruelty (No. 18001).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u51	Mr President, I will turn the question into a written question, since I still have to go to another committee. I might be able to take the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic648x.u52	Question No 18011 by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx is postponed.
