ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u1	Mr President, Minister, several media reported malpractice in removing asbestos a few weeks ago. Both the demolition works themselves and the removal of asbestos were obviously in breach of all the rules. Two witnesses, former employees of a company from Zwogem, would have gone to court about a year ago. Among other things, a list of places where the waste was dumped was transferred. There would have been very few investigative actions, including the disease of the detectives. Another investigation is about false measurement reports. An asbestos remover would have made reports on behalf of an approved lab and thus falsified the measurements. How many violations of asbestos removal and treatment have been identified in the last five years? How often did it come to a conviction? What was the penalty? How many investigations are currently under way into asbestos-processing offences? To what extent are these ongoing investigations a priority for the public prosecutors? Is it true that the investigation into the Swevegems company has been delayed? Was this indeed partly due to illness in the detectives? If so, can this study not be replaced? When does the court expect to be able to complete this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u2	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, it is not possible to provide statistically relevant figures because there is no specific prevention code for asbestos removal in the public prosecutor's file registration system. However, the College of Attorneys-General informed me that a brief survey of the public prosecutors showed that there were some pending cases in this area. With regard to the handling of such infringements, the Public Prosecutor states that when the facts are established in ongoing investigations, they will in principle be followed up. Since the investigation into the Zweegems company is an ongoing criminal investigation, you will understand that, given the secret of the criminal investigation, no data can be provided on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u3	Mr President, Minister, the last answer is, of course, the standard answer we receive. I understand that, but I think it's important. We've seen the reportage. It's been over a year and after the report, everyone shoots in action. That has been there for a year, stored as it should not, with all the consequences of that. And it's only after a report that people move to action. Maybe we should give a signal to the College of Attorney General after all. If such crimes are detected, and we know that they are substances that can have a very serious impact on public health, then they must be considered as an absolute priority and not just left behind, even if a detective is sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u4	Mr Minister, since 1 December 2016, the national registers for translators/interpreters and legal experts have been in force. In a first phase there was a temporary registration based on transitional provisions. A definitive register would have been established since March 2017. Interested parties register via eDeposit. The law laying down the modalities for this was amended this spring. It expressly states that this register can be consulted freely on the website of the FPS Justice Department. This was not the case at the time I submitted the question. I have not checked whether this is still the case, but there is therefore no openness, despite the fact that the law expressly provides for this. How do you explain that at the moment the temporary register is not free to consult on the website? Is there another way for citizens to access the register at the moment? When will the register be placed on the FPS Justice website?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u5	The register for translators/interpreters and legal experts is drawn up and rolled out for users in a roadmap over several years. In 2016, my services focused on the development of the registration module for the transitional register. This functionality went into production in November 2016. From that date, experts may submit their application for entry in the register. In 2017, the focus will be on the link with the MACH system, the business application of the judicial order. For example, the transitional register could be opened very recently to the Magistrate from 15 June 2017. In order to facilitate use, advanced search functionality will be launched in the last quarter of 2017. In the meantime, applications submitted shall be subject to progressive checks on the basis of the quality criteria incorporated into the final register. This transitional period allows experts to comply with quality requirements. For 2018, the widespread use of this register to the police and then to a wider audience is on the agenda, provided that a significant number of experts, interpreters, translators and translators/interpreters are included by then. Knowing that 1 586 legal experts and 1 238 interpreters, translators and translators/interpreters have already submitted their application for entry in the final register today and that Justice can already count on many high-quality experts today, that will not be a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u6	Minister, if we adopt laws, we think they will always be implemented, unless the law expressly provides that certain provisions will come into force later. But the law was pretty clear that the register can be accessed freely on the website of the federal government. From your answer, I can conclude that this is the case now, for example, or that there is a public record regarding the magistrates, for the police this will only be accessible from 2018 onwards and only afterwards for the wider public. I do not think this is in accordance with either the letter or the spirit of the law that we have approved in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u7	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Questions Nos 19360 and 19362 by Mrs Uyttersprot are postponed and the combined questions Nos 19360 and 19362 by Mrs Uyttersprot are postponed. 19361 by Mrs Uyttersprot and 19446 by Mrs Van Cauter. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Uyttersprot's 19363 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Uyttersprot's 19364 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u8	Mr Minister, in the case of a sale of a property in, for example, an apartment building which also sells part of the common parts of the building, there is a possibility that a general meeting may be convened between the signing of the sale contract and the passing of the notarial deed of the purchase of the property, in which the reserve fund can be increased. The potential buyer may not be informed of this and may not receive a proxy for that meeting. However, the law states that the buyer must be informed or invited. I would therefore like to receive an answer to the following questions. What interpretation of the law is the correct one? Should the buyer be informed, or is that not necessary? Are we talking about a blind spot in the law, which can change the interpretation? Was the interpretation changed over the years? How can there be a consistent interpretation so that the above matters no longer occur to other citizens in our society?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u9	Mr Top, Article 577-11 §2.2 of the Civil Code explicitly provides that the notary shall apply to the syndicus for a state of capital injections approved by the general meeting of the co-owners before the fixed date of the transfer of ownership, as well as the cost of the urgent work of which the syndicus has requested payment only after that date, and shall deliver it to the transferee. This provision concerns both calls for stiffening of the reserve fund and calls for stiffening of the operating fund. The law itself states that it must be a cost, approved before the fixed date of the transfer of ownership. This is done in most cases by the passing of the authentic act. The obtaining of a fixed date and the passing of the authentic instrument are therefore usually the same. Before the transfer has obtained fixed date, the new owner will usually not be invited to the general meeting. But through the notary, who wrote to the syndician for this purpose, he will be informed about the costs that await him. In the event that a general meeting would now take place between the conclusion of the agreement and the performance of the authentic instrument, and the acquirer had a power of attorney to participate in that general meeting, he was therefore already invited - he will be obliged to pay the extraordinary charges and the calls for capital made by that general meeting. See the same Article 577-11 §2, sixth paragraph of the Civil Code. If he has not taken part in the general meeting, he shall be liable, if necessary, to the costs approved by the general meeting before the fixed date of the transfer, but which have only become due after the general meeting. Therefore, there is no blind spot in the law. The buyer is informed of the costs incurred prior to the transfer, which he is expected to incur, including the costs relating to the reserve fund and the capital fund. If he was invited to a general meeting, which took place between the agreement and the performance of the sales contract, he will have to respond to the calls for capital injection. There has been no change of interpretation over the years. Nor are we aware of any significant cases which have given rise to multiple interpretations or discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed explanation and description. It seems to me that there is no difference of interpretation and therefore there is no blind spot in the interpretation between the signing of a sales agreement and the passing of the authentic instrument itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u11	Questions Nos. 19452 and 19453 by Mr. Jean-Jacques Flahaux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u12	Mr Minister, you have recently announced a massive investment in computer equipment for justice: a budget of €750,000 has been released for the purchase of 6,000 laptops for half of the judicial staff. Some say that this investment is not very important; I believe that it is the opposite, and that, on the contrary, it is essential to bring justice into the 21st century. Videoconferencing can now be used among members of the judiciary, for example for meetings. The objective of this investment is also to translate hearings by video-conferencing into proceedings before the investigating courts. This new system of appearance of the accused must, I would remind you, come into force on 1 September 2017. Minister, I would like to ask you a few specific questions about this investment in computer equipment. Has the purchase of 6,000 new laptops already been made? At what time is this equipment, would it be, or will it be deployed? How has this new material been or will it be distributed among the judiciary? What are the prospects for this investment in computer equipment? What are its concrete objectives, in addition to the use of videoconferencing? How will video-conferencing hearings in investigative jurisdictions be organized in practice? How will this be done, in particular with regard to the place of the lawyer, the possibility for the lawyer to meet confidentially with his client and the possibility of consulting the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u13	Mr Goffin, the purchase of 6,037 new laptops was made at the end of November 2016. 60% of these computers have already been distributed since then. These new laptops replace in the first place the old machines, which already date from 2009-2011, magistrates, chief clerks, clerks, secretaries, chief secretaries and secretaries heads of department. These new computers are more efficient and guarantee the continuity of technical support. This replacement operation is a priority. The concrete objective of replacing new mobile phones is to enable magistrates, chief clerks and clerks to be better assisted in their work through a more efficient and rapid tool. New mobile phones are equipped, for professional interpersonal communications, with the Skype for Business app as a basic videoconferencing tool. The investment of €750,000 is not linked to the purchase of these 6,000 laptops as part of the programme to modernise laptops. It concerns investments that allow us to extend to the other jurisdictions the pilot project on video conferencing in civil cases which, for some years now, has been successfully carried out at the level of the Antwerp Court of Appeal, in conjunction with the technical facilities of the Hasselt courthouse. The use of this videoconference shall take place at the request of the parties. The proposed use of video-conferencing for chamber appearances of counsel is provisionally suspended pending the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Lawyers.be brought proceedings against the law which had been adopted after consideration by the Commission. I await the ruling of the Constitutional Court before making any statement on the subsequent enforcement of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u14	Minister, thank you. As I said, this significant investment in computer equipment is useful. We may regret, given the ambient climate, that this has not been sufficiently disseminated. We will ensure that this is recalled when necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u15	Minister, the announced reform of the judicial cantons raises many questions, which are just as much evidence of the interest in the local jurisdiction of justice of the peace. Without going back to the reasons or modalities of the reform, I would like to highlight one of its collateral effects. The judicial cantons are used to define judicial districts. For the province of Liège, for example, the annex to the Judicial Code concerning territorial limits and the seat of courts and tribunals states that "the judicial cantons of the province of Liège, with the exception of the cantons of Saint-Vith and Eupen, form a judicial district." In addition, the judicial cantons are used to define the territorial jurisdiction of the divisions of the courts of first instance. Thus, again in order to take the example of the Court of First Instance of Liège, in accordance with Article 186 of the Judicial Code, a royal decree of 16 February 2016 lays down the rules governing the allocation of cases as follows: "Art. 1st. The Court of First Instance of Liège is divided into three divisions. The first is based in Liège and has jurisdiction over the cantons of Fléron, Grace-Hollogne, Herstal, the four cantons of Liège, the cantons of Saint-Nicolas, Seraing, Spriont, Visé and Waremme. The second is based in Huy and has jurisdiction over the cantons of Hamoir, the first canton of Huy and the second canton of Huy-Hannut. The third has its seat in Verviers and exercises its jurisdiction over the cantons of Limburg-Aubel, Malmedy-Spa-Stavelot, the first canton of Verviers-Herve and the second canton of Verviers." The abolition of certain cantons and the redefinition of the remaining cantons therefore have consequences for the definition of judicial districts and the territorial jurisdiction of the divisions of the courts of first instance. These two aspects will have to be adapted according to the new map of the judicial cantons. Therefore, Minister, I would like to put the following questions to you. Has the redefinition of judicial districts as a result of the cantonal reform ever been the subject of reflection within the government? Have the courts and tribunals been consulted? Should all judicial districts be adapted as a result of cantonal reform? What criteria will be taken into account for this purpose? Has the adaptation of the territorial competence of the divisions of the courts of first instance following the reform of the cantons been the subject of any reflection within the government? Have the courts and tribunals been consulted? In which courts of first instance should the division of cases be reviewed following the reform of the cantons? On what basis is this revision carried out? What criteria are taken into account for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u16	Mr Goffin, the reform of the judicial cantons does not alter the borders of the judicial districts. As soon as the territory of the districts is defined in the Annex on the basis of the judicial cantons, the adaptations of the latter's designations are provided for in Article 4 of the Annex to the Judicial Code. The draft law on justices of the peace will be submitted shortly to the Council of Ministers and will include these adaptations. On the other hand, the abolition of certain cantons and the redistribution of other cantons in the context of the reform may in some cases lead to the transfer of certain communes from one division of a court of first instance to another. The judicial districts concerned by these transfers of communes from one division to another are those of Antwerp, East Flanders, West Flanders, Liège, Charleroi and Luxembourg. Transfers of communes from one division to another have an impact mainly on the division of the court of first instance concerned which will be competent to hear the appeal of a decision of a justice of the peace. The amendments to the judicial cantons' draft were decided in close consultation with the presidents of the justices of the peace and the judges of the police court, as well as with the presidents of the French- and Dutch-speaking courts of first instance in Brussels and the court of first instance in Eupen. It can be assumed that, since the presidents of the justices of the peace and the judges of the police court have made proposals, they have consulted with their colleagues in the courts of first instance. These amendments will entail adapting the Royal Decree of 14 March 2014 on the division of labour courts, courts of first instance, labour courts, commercial courts and police courts, as well as article 1 of certain distribution regulations in force to date. For the time being, only the courts of first instance in Antwerp, Liège, Namur and East Flanders have rules on the allocation of cases. Where appropriate, the presidents of the various courts of first instance will have to make a proposal for a settlement of cases taking account of these changes in territories and divisions or a proposal to adjust their existing rules if they consider that the above changes have an impact on the distribution of their cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u17	Minister, thank you for this very useful clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic693x.u18	Question No 19496 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh is transformed into a written question.
