ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u2	Mr President, we have heard from the press that there is an agreement on the Members' pension scheme. Our question is whether we can get that agreement, because we are not present in the working group and you know that this is a very sensitive dossier for us. I would also like to know whether there is also a debate in the Chamber on this agreement. Since it is an arrangement about ourselves, it would be a good thing to have a debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u3	Mr Hedebouw, a unanimous agreement has indeed been reached in the Bureau of the Chamber. Otherwise, we will follow the procedure. This means that next Wednesday, around noon, there will be a meeting of the pension fund board, the non-profit association you are not in. Then, half an hour later, there will be a general meeting, which you will be in. That's where you can tell me what you think.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u4	Mr President, could we receive the Rules of Procedure so that we can conduct the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u5	Of course. I await the report of the Bureau of the House that has decided, as you know. I hope I can do it this afternoon or tonight. Then we will be able to return the report of the Public Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u6	I have received amendments to the draft law inserting the Book XX "Insolvency of Enterprises" into the Code of Economic Law and incorporating the definitions inherent in book XX, and the law enforcement provisions inherent in book XX, in book I of the Code of Economic Law, Nos 2407/1 to 9. I have received amendments on the draft law on the inclusion of Book XX "Insolvency of enterprises" in the Code of Economic Law, incorporating the definitions specific to Book XX, and the provisions implementing Book XX, in Book I of the Code of Economic Law, Nos. 2407/1 to 9. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 July 2017, I propose to return the draft law to the Trade and Economic Law Committee in order to discuss these amendments. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 July 2017, I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Commercial and Economic Law for consideration of these amendments. The draft law will be debated in plenary today, after discussion of the amendments in committee. Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendments in committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I think that the committee meeting will begin at 3 p.m. in Room 2, but that is subject to contradiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the four major majority parties, Mr N-VA, Mr M.R., Mr CD&V and Mr Open Vld, have all entered the elections with a great and important promise: with us it will be different, with us it will be better, with us the budget will be settled. Bart De Wever, our colleague with time credits, even pretended that would be something of nothing. A fingernip was enough and the N-VA would get the budget in order. What wasn't in those election programs? That was the index jump and working up to 67 years. That, ladies and gentlemen, promises are made and those who do not deliver will not dare to impose savings on a population until after elections, which is called vesicles. It's called lying to people. It's called breaking important election promises. Let me be very clear. We are not budget fetishists, we are not balance fetishists. We are much more interested in a society in balance than a budget in balance. For years it has been said that the left-wingers wanted to postpone the balance of the budget. We were killed for that. You shouldn't have. That would be outrageous. While the network of common sense is a testament to giving oxygen to an economy, to reforming things and thus, in the longer term, to achieving a budget balance. So we are not balance fetishists, but we do have a fetish, a dogma, and that is the dogma of justice. If you read in the Monitoring Committee's report today that an effort of EUR 8 billion still needs to be made to achieve a balance in 2019, we are concerned. We are concerned that the majority will once again release a great deal of invoices and savings on the people in our country, on the people who are already struggling, on the people who are hard at work. This is actually my most important question, Prime Minister, not to do so. If you say that you do not want to cut back on the economy and that you do not want to reduce purchasing power, then you really must do so, and then you must choose just solutions. That eight billion must not be paid by people who work, by people who have a hard time, but by Panama Tourists and the great abilities. Last week we read about a transfer, Mr Jambon. 3.1 billion euros a year our country loses because of tax evasion by Panama tourists. Take those transfers! My question is: what efforts do you intend to make when you withdraw to the castles in the next few days and weeks? Prime Minister, our group has an appeal to you to deal with it in a fair manner this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this government things would be different and, above all, they would be different in the area of state finances. The state finances would finally be put in order. Mr President, you will remember very well, there would be a recovery government from day one. As far as the budget is concerned, we have seen very little of that. What have we seen, ladies and gentlemen? The government gave the people the message that savings had to be made and that everyone had to do their part. What else did we see? We've seen an index jump. There was the increase in invoices on electricity and on water. There were savings in health insurance, in health care. We have seen the savings on sick people, on pensioners. What didn't we see? We have not seen any savings in the major assets. We have not seen, or perhaps have not seen, Mr Peeters, I will be careful. In any case, we have not seen it so far. Minister, the government has started a deficit of 10 billion. And after three years, we will have to cough up a deficit of eight billion in 2019. So nothing really happened. Our main question is then: where did the money go? Where's the money people all turned in to? Mr Prime Minister, that is the first question. The second question is will you really pass everything on to our children and grandchildren? (Conversation on the banks) Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the efforts of the previous government have been greater than you have done. You can rely on the economic growth that is there. Congratulations, but all economists say that this economic growth is due to the global situation. You can boast of a bigger job creation. We are very happy that there are more jobs, but we all read last week that half of those jobs are very precarious jobs. I assume you've read that, too. I assume you have also read that the risk of poverty among women is rising, as is the number of working poor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u9	Mrs. Temmerman, what is your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u10	I come to my question. My main question is how will you resolve it, Prime Minister? Prime Minister, you said a few months ago that we will shift the achievement of the budget balance to 2019. My question is when will you move them now? To 2019, 2020, 2021? You're putting a mortgage on our future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u11	"We're going to reach fiscal balance in 2017". I quote you, Prime Minister, in support, three years ago. And then, no, in fact, "we're going to reach fiscal balance in 2018." And, later, "we will reach fiscal balance in 2019". Today, Bart De Wever says: "To say we'll find 8 billion in two years," that is to say, we'll reach balance in 2019, "it's telling jokes." Indeed, telling jokes is what you have been doing for three years, Prime Minister, with your government. This is what the N-VA has been doing since it claimed to be the party of good governance, of the "goed bestuur". We also have a finance minister who is worse than Didier Reynders, and that's little to say! I know it's hard, but I think he can win this challenge. You told us jokes saying that the tax shift was fully funded, while there is a leak in the pipe through which billions go to capital. Finally, what you are doing with this government is tantamount to a double penalty for the population: on the one hand, the population must suffer austerity with ten billion fiscal efforts since you are in place and, on the other hand, the lack of budgetary rigour. Your right-wing government is and the austerity and the lack of budgetary rigour. Prime Minister, my question is simple: are you going to achieve fiscal balance in 2019? I propose you a multiple choice: a) I don't know, stop bothering me; (b) Yes, I maintain my course; (c) No, since the N-VA does not want to. And, alternatively, where have the billions of austerity disappeared, since the hole is still there?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Belgian Government once promised Europe a budget balance in 2016. That was fake news. Your government promised a budget balance in 2018. That turned out to be a joke. In retrospect, you say that you want to ensure that a budget balance is achieved in 2019. But now it turns out that it's a delay. You seem to have fooled people about vesicles. There's one thing I can tell you. It seems that we live not only in a Community standstill, but also in a budget standstill. To clean up a budget, Prime Minister, if this is not possible when the economy is going well, when will it be possible? If a budget does not succeed when interest charges are low, when will it succeed? Prime Minister, your government once said not to be able to clean up when it freezes. I find that it doesn't work when the sun is shining. Then there's the ageing. The ageing population will ensure that our social spending will increase seriously. By 2040 this represents 3 per cent of gross domestic product extra or 13 billion. Please, let's get to work on that, otherwise that buffer will never come. The Michel Government has said that we will fix the accounts here. Everyone agreed, from opposition to majority: we had to do it for our children. I note that you are abandoning that ambition and saying that we may do it for our grandchildren, or perhaps even for our great-grandchildren. The Monitoring Committee says we need to save extra money by 2018 and find resources for 4.3 billion. We read now that the RTBF says it will be less than two billion. Elsewhere we hear talk of a billion dollars. I would very much like to know from you when you are pursuing the balance of the budget and what steps you will take in the budgetary negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have often said in this rostrum, the government has made a clear choice. This choice is based on the ambition to create more jobs through structural reforms, economic reforms, social reforms and further fiscal consolidation efforts. Almost three years after the start of this government, there are the first concrete results. Firstly, and these are objective figures, there was a deficit of 2.2 % in the budget three years ago. Today there is a deficit of 0.9 %. This represents, cumulatively, a decrease of 0.9%, or EUR 17 billion in consolidation through structural measures that will make our economy more solid. That's the result! One hundred and forty thousand jobs have been created, mainly in the private sector. The unemployment rate is falling. The OECD ranks this government among the top 5 reformers among its members in terms of structural reforms and preparedness for the challenges of the future. Yes, we will continue this reform work on the budget, as well as on the economic recovery. I hear those who have been blaming us for three years for austerity, blind savings, and today not to be at the balance of the budget. We can't plead everything and the opposite! Mr President, what are the government's priorities in the next few weeks and months? We will make additional decisions with four objectives. The first objective is to make progress in the clean-up process. That is indeed a very important challenge for the government. We will work hard, also in consultation with the European Commission, to ensure that our exercise is credible to the citizens of Belgium, but also to the European Commission. The second point is the blame. Our debt level has fallen over the last three years. We will continue to be vigilant to see how we can continue our efforts in this direction. Thirdly, the investment pact. Our ambition in this respect is clear. Within a few days we will receive a first report from our strategic committee. We have had an in-depth discussion on this in committee. Our ambition is more growth, more competitiveness, strengthening our economy and structural reforms. A few days ago, I had the opportunity to discuss this with the European Commission, in the logic of additional and necessary structural reforms for a positive impact on our economy. On the one hand, unfortunately, it is a usual game between the majority and the opposition. According to some messages I hear, nothing would be done, everything would be sad, black and grey at the beginning of the action that is being carried out. I want to acknowledge with sobriety that, on the one hand, we have progressed much faster than we thought three years ago in the field of employment. We have achieved much more substantial results on competitiveness, on wage disadvantage, on the ability to grow our businesses. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you are actually talking about budgetary balance. In three years, we are making progress in reorganising the environment by reducing the tax and parafiscal burden by EUR 4.6 billion, while at the same time cleaning up. These are the results for more purchasing power, for more jobs and for a stronger economy!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, you obviously did not listen very carefully to my speech. I have even recognised that it is a matter of common sense not to destroy us today. The budget is important not to transfer the invoice too much to our children and grandchildren, but they also do not buy anything if their parents cannot pay their bill at the same time at the end of the month. The children and grandchildren also live best in healthy air. Today's problem is not only that we do not have a budget in balance, but also that we do not have a society in balance. The investments you're talking about aren't there! Because I knew you'd come up with a list, I've got a list. We do not say that everything is wretched and tormented. We believe that Belgium is a country with many possibilities. We also see a number of pluses, but they are often there despite the policy, rather thanks to the policy. The pluses are mainly the result of the European economic context, Mr Jambon, which is attracting the European economy. There are also figures relating to the losers of your policy, Prime Minister. The number of living wage-earners has reached a record; only five countries, including Greece, Romania and Portugal, are doing worse in terms of efficiency. The risk of poverty among working people, especially women, is increasing. There's an increase in absenteeism. We've been in traffic longer than ever. This week we have fallen back from the 15th to the 27th place in the field of innovative economy, Mr Beke. Just before this summer recess, I urge you to deal with these matters. People almost leave on vacation and they should be able to do so with peace of mind. Colleagues of CD&V, we only have one fetish, and that is not a budget in balance but justice. I hope, for once, that you will keep your word in that regard. It's high time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have never said that savings should not be made. In fact, some of your government constantly blamed us for this in the previous legislature, when you were part of the majority. We do have a problem with you constantly saving on the hood of the same people. Every time you save on the ordinary man in the street, you forget the great abilities. Moreover, all the successes you mention are largely due to the revival of the economic situation that we, fortunately, are experiencing today. Where's the money from all your savings? We will still have a deficit of eight billion in 2019. Where'd the money go? How will you explain to our generation, to the next generation and to the next generation that you have done nothing with it? Nothing. Prime Minister, we ask for honesty. Honesty in the savings. If you need to take a number of measures for the forthcoming savings, colleagues from CD&V, please do not forget the great capacities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u16	Prime Minister, you say that you cannot be blamed for both austerity and lack of budgetary rigour. That's exactly what you're being blamed for! You practice austerity at the same time as a lack of budgetary rigour! That's the double penalty I mentioned earlier! We know your technique: when you are confronted with your budget failures, you talk about the issue of employment. Some jobs have indeed been created because of the international situation, but what jobs are they? Fixed employment increased by 1.1%. Insecure employment, acting and company, increased by 16.7%. 16.7% increase is the reality! You do not create jobs, you create precarious jobs! Finally, you tell us that you are making reforms. I'm willing to grant it to you. You are making reforms, but what reforms are they? It is a multiplication of gifts to capital: index jumps, the retirement age increased, social security detrigued! And we know that you still have some in store: ISOC reform, tax shift bis, etc.- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You are carrying out a policy of giving to capital at the expense of labour and this is felt in the statistics since the National Bank has shown that for the past three years there has been a transfer of income from labour to income from capital: 5%, that is to say billions of euros, have passed from the pockets of workers to the caisses of companies!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u17	Prime Minister, job creation and investment are indeed necessary. We fully support that. But if you say that that is enough, then you are not right; you are wise to the people. However, you were the government of larupture, the government of the break-up with the Di Rupo government. You were the government of change. You are becoming the government of the boulevard or broken dreams and promises. However, I am very happy about one thing, Prime Minister. You prove that cleaning up without state reform is not possible, because what turns out to be? A Community standstill leads to a budgetary standstill. Restoring in the wild growth of the Belgian institutions is the only way to clean up without hurting the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u18	Minister, you have been aware for a long time that we are strongly in favour of giving workers as much autonomy and opportunities as possible to build into their working arrangements at the end of their career. We have already taken a lot of measures on SWT and time credits to keep people working longer. At the same time, however, we also see an increase in burnouts and stress. Hence, in addition to the measures to keep people longer at work, there is also a need for reform to keep people on their feet, to keep them workable. The current system of runways from 60 years of age offers a partial solution to this problem. However, the system is very rigid and gives the worker little flexibility. One can only work four fifths or half-times while one often also needs some rest points in the career for a few years before his 60 years. For some people half a day a week also makes a big difference to keep it doable. In the non-profit we have a good example of this. There the wrinkle days have already proved that there can be more people in the sector by having these rest points built in and that it can also last longer. That's why we think those soft runways could be a good system for 55-plussers to install rest points. The metal industry took the lead. The social partners have drawn up a proposal among themselves to make it easier to do it from 58 years on, either by taking a lighter job or by switching from night and shift work to day work or by switching to four fifths. The loss of wages would be offset by a premium financed by the employer, ranging from €74 to € 154 per month. The question is whether this could be exempted from social security contributions. You have received this sector and you have taken the initiative to develop an RB in this area. Some government partners apparently needed some time to see the importance of those soft runways. Many consultations and discussions, which are part of the political process, are now beginning to produce results. So we must never despair in politics, because recent reports indicate that there would be support from the other government parties for our position. Are those messages true, Minister? How is this now being done within the government? Will this initiative of the metal sector possibly be extended to other sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u19	Mr Vercamer, it is true that with regard to runways in the time-credit for older workers, we have made a number of agreements in the government agreement with the philosophy of keeping people longer at work and increasing the effective career life. I agree with you that we can add more flexibility and better modalities to this. It is also true that last year I received the agreement of the social partners in the metal and technological sectors. These sectors are sometimes very creative. They then had an agreement to provide for a wage supplement for the 58-plussers when they would change their career. This means, in concrete terms, from full-time to part-time, from night to day shift, taking up a less burdensome position and so on. Congratulations to the social partners in this sector for agreeing. I said at the time that I would support that plan. I think that is an important additional opportunity to deal with this in a more flexible way. The fact that this can be achieved through a collective agreement, which has been reached, is an additional plus. It is true that this is a shared competence that I share with Mrs De Block. We have made a royal decision. On 21 February 2017, an IKW also passed on. I assume that we are now both proposing this within the government to see how other fellow Members deal with it. I hope that we will be able to achieve greater flexibility and more modalities with the government by consensus. The metal industry has given us a very good example.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u20	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is a good thing and a positive development that the two competent ministers have found each other in this dossier and that there is a moving insight. Luckily, only dogmatics don't change their minds. In any case, we are counting on a speedy decision so that workable work on the work floor can be made very concrete on the basis of this initiative. We are also counting on it to be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u21	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State, Tomorrowland will start next weekend, a fantastic festival for which a lot of people could get a ticket. What did it turn out this week? The federal police made the effort to screen and run the databases at the request of the municipalities of Boom and Rumst. 37 people were told that they were no longer welcome. The reason for that refusal was apparently not given. The privacy committee expressed serious reservations about such a general screening this week. There would be a municipal police regulations in Boom and Rumst that should give them a legal basis. Mr Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of State, the question arises as to whether such action is not too far-reaching. Apparently such screenings have been carried out in the past, but this year they are more extensive. Not only were people linked to a criminal record or to signals from Interpol or Europol, but also ANG, the General National Database, was used. However, the ANG includes not only convictions and proven facts, but also reports and unproven facts, which may contain important information for the police, but which may not be sufficient to punish someone without any means of appeal. I come to my questions for you. Firstly, is the legal basis for such a general screening sufficient? What is in the relevant police regulations that have been approved? Can you explain more about the criteria for excluding people from this festival? Secondly, do you have any results from the investigation launched by the privacy committee and the P Committee this week? Thirdly, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, can you explain more about the ANG and the data contained in it? Are these correct? How long do these reports last? Fourthly, and finally, the most important question, do you think that the measure of general screening is proportionate and desirable? How far can we go in the future? It is in the interests of our rule of law and of protecting our privacy to get a clear answer to these questions from the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u22	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the previous speaker has already asked you a series of questions and I will not repeat them. The P Committee will examine what is legal or not, but the question that concerns us is whether this is an effective approach to what threatens us all, especially potentially terrorism. Does this measure not involve too much arbitrariness and do not undermine the rights of individual citizens? It is an important issue and I have a number of supplementary questions. On the basis of which criteria do those concerned receive the final verdict that they are not allowed to use their ticket? What criteria are useful, useful and desirable to determine which events should be screened in this way? I understand they don't do that for the Werchter festival. Brosella is already done, but this weekend the festival of Dour starts and the Ghent Festivals begin. What will happen to football events, streets, the 20 kilometers through Brussels, the Antwerp marathon and so on? Nowhere can I find guidelines on this, not even in the terrorist threat analysis I looked at this morning. The OCAD has not drawn up any guidelines. My question is what guidelines you give from your security policy and to which organisations? What events should be the subject of such preventive actions? In a rule of law, it is appropriate for the government, which, like Parliament, is concerned about security, to give clear guidelines, so that there is no arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u23	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, unlike a number of fellow Members, I have never been to Tomorrowland myself, and I will probably never go there either. Visitors to Tomorrowland have apparently been checked and screened by local police for the last six years. This year, the screening was done for the first time by the federal police. This is done with the permission of the mayor and on the basis of a police regulations approved by the city council. Taking into account threat level 3, it is also good that extra attention is paid in our country to the safety and security of mass events. The tickets to Tomorrowland are registered. Tomorrowland's organization passed the names on to the police. The police had them screen all 270 000, and 37 people were refused. Tomorrowland's spokesperson said that in recent years dozens of people have been refused. So this isn't new. This year involved were apparently e-mailed stating that they would be refused for security reasons. Apparently, the P Committee, the privacy committee and the COC have started an investigation, because certainly the privacy committee has already raised concerns about the legal basis. Our usual friends from Progress Lawyers Network have done the same, but for example Professor Dumortier of the KUL sees no problem. Some refer to the football law. I would certainly not use the football law to have stadium bans copied for festival bans. Nor is it Tomorrowland every week and not every municipality has such police regulations. If you start with something new, there are also shortcomings. We have seen this clearly by now. So things can be better. For example, to whom can the person who is wrongly refused? How can we be better informed? Minister, Secretary of State, do you think that the local government and the police have been out of line? Do you think that this can be improved?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u24	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, our country hosts so many festivals, so famous that festivalgoers flock every year from all over the world to dance in a frenzy of rhythms. Even if Mr.Vermeulen did not go to Tomorrowland – of which he might not even pass the screening – this festival is part of the international reach of our country. Unfortunately, this year, 400,000 festivalgoers were screened using data they encoded when they bought their ticket. This is a disproportionate method since it is widespread. They were not asked for their consent. This method was applied massively, without any specific criteria. I would also like to point out that the European Court of Human Rights is very clear in this respect. This is a completely disproportionate method. The Privacy Commission regrets that it was not consulted prior to the implementation of this initiative. It also considers this illegal practice. It disbanded its control by the federal police. Minister, I am not going to repeat all the questions that have been raised today by my colleagues. How did we proceed? On the basis of what criteria? The first consequence is that 38 people were denied access. Can you give us further information about them? Are these people known for acts of radicalism, terrorism? Will they be listed on a blacklist? What will be the future consequences, if any, for their freedom of movement? Will they be able to take over the plane and return to the United States, for example? Ministers, what follow-up are you going to bring to this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to confirm that the fact that Mr Vermeulen does not appear there has nothing to do with the results of the screening, but is based solely on his free will. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u26	You know that? He hasn't bought a ticket yet, so he wasn't screened. But that is not the essence of the matter. What is essential, however, is that a series of legitimate and pertinent questions were asked that require an answer. I would be much more annoying to have to answer questions about a terrorist attack on Tomorrowland within 14 days. Questions like: where did the man or woman whose name was in databases buy his or her ticket? Why didn't that person, even though they knew the police, be taken out? The initiative is based on the local government, the local police, and help and cooperation was requested from the federal police. I think that's a healthy safety reflex. Mr. Bonte, at every event we ask you to make a local risk assessment. Every festival, from big to small, does. Then the necessary decisions are taken by the local authorities, in consultation with the federal police and if necessary with the Crisis Centre. That's what happened here. Tomorrowland is one of the few festivals where all tickets are sold in advance by name. We ran those names through the ANG, the General National Data Bank. Mrs Gabriels, it is true that the police database contains more data than just the convictions. The results were interpreted and it is not, therefore, that anyone who appears in the database was simply denied access to Tomorrowland. We have focused specifically on three phenomena: terrorism, of course, drug dealing and amoking. Those were the three elements. Moreover, not only did those involved have to appear in a database, but there had to be concrete facts that gave rise to that decision. I agree: we can still improve communication about this phenomenon. So we will also adapt things. Then, yes, it is true that there are some investigations by the P Committee and the Privacy Commission. Thanks to the results of these surveys, we will improve the processes. I believe that it is our primary responsibility, with respect for privacy and the rule of law, to ensure that the tens of thousands of festivalgoers in this country can participate in festivals in a safe way that fits our values.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u27	Mr President, security at major events is, of course, a central task for the government. Yesterday's consultation between the P Committee, the privacy committee, the COC and the police has clearly shown that there are a lot of questions to be asked about the way screening was carried out. For example, it is not clear whether the local regulations have a sufficient legal and legal basis. There has also been no transparency or communication with festivalgoers. The criteria for exclusion are also not clearly communicated and there is no appeal for those who feel wrongly addressed. The question can therefore be asked whether the database, which for example does not contain foreigners, is the right tool to carry out the screening. If this is not done in a good way, it will ultimately lead to arbitrariness, and that must be avoided. I therefore welcome the fact that the privacy committee, together with the COC and the P Committee, will continue to examine the legality and framework conditions on the basis of which this preventive screening of visitors to Tomorrowland could take place. In this way the necessary conclusions can be drawn. Safety is absolutely essential to me too, but checks and balances are always needed. I also have serious questions about the proportionality and effectiveness of such massive screening. The question is whether this will happen for all public events and festivals this summer. Or should we look at this in a different way? Over the last few weeks and months, we have taken measures together to improve security at major events. For example, we have taken measures in the field of private security so that screenings can be carried out on a festival site. That way, people who cause a problem can be picked out. My appeal is therefore to continue to opt for measures that can increase real security at major events, with respect for privacy. I look forward to the results of the investigation by the P Committee and the privacy committee as to whether all legal provisions have been complied with. I believe that in the past we have always been able to take such measures in a good way, with respect for the rule of law, checks and balances and privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u28	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. We have indeed asked about the criteria, because they are important. No one will express any reservations if they try to prevent a person who has been convicted of terrorism or drugs. However, the legal basis appears to be lean and the information given to ticket holders has not been sufficient. The task of the government is indeed to create a society as safe as possible, even at threat level 3. However, we live in a rule of law where we constantly have to ask ourselves two questions: firstly, is it legal?; Secondly, is it desirable? There are indeed many other festivals in this country which do not have the capacity for such screening, but which do take other security measures in the interest of their visitors. Ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to discuss and reflect in this House, because we remain on the tension between security and protection of privacy. The important question is how far one can go in the future to guarantee a safe society, without falling into a big brother society where privacy becomes an empty box?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u29	Minister, I was just wondering what kind of charade we are now in. It is now common practice for a member of the majority of controversial subjects to ask critical questions to the government, but it is not customary for a Secretary of State to question the whole thing and a Minister's reply. We shall see, Mr De Backer, to what extent there is respect for privacy. Mr Vice Prime Minister, in criminal law, a police state is defined as a state in which the police have very far-reaching powers and intervenes deeply and randomly in the personal life of citizens. I think this is an illustration of what we saw on Tomorrowland. If you think this is an efficient prevention campaign, what do you say if the organizers of the Ghent Festivals or major sporting events cannot do so? It would be a good thing for the government if it were to issue clear guidelines on this matter, if it were to give clear instructions and if it could also create greater legal certainty. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that on the ground where people are working with people on the OCAD list, with precise follow-up, there are clear signs of a lack of capacity to work efficiently, not to mention those who come out of prisons. This may require more priority than the current illustration of police state practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u30	Minister, Secretary of State, from your answers I conclude that there is a great deal of tension between security and privacy. Both are placed opposite each other, when they actually have to go together. For some, it'll never be enough. When an incident occurs, one immediately looks for the blame game, to see who has done something wrong. And when there is a strong commitment to prevention, sometimes people think that it is going too far. Apparently, one of them rules out the other. However, the federal police clearly stated on television yesterday that they were asking themselves to be party to a clearer and better framework and to look for a kind of helpline to better inform those involved. Minister, I hear that you are also looking for a better and wider framework, that the framework needs to be adapted. That makes sense to me. As the Secretary of State said, guaranteeing security is a central task of the government. I therefore believe that together, each one of us in our own environment, we must ensure that there are as few risks as possible and that safety is guaranteed as much as possible. Mr Bonte, if you say that our country is starting to look like a police state because of the screenings on Tomorrowland, then I really think your statement is worthy of a charade.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u31	Mr Minister, we must of course guarantee the safety of festivalgoers, especially when we are at level 3 of the threat. We are not opposed to measures such as the organisation of controls at the entrance to festivals or the placement of security portals. These are measures that are proportionate, which can be accepted by all in view of the risks involved. However, here, there is a question – this is a real problem – of an excessive, generalized measure, without predetermined criteria, taken for Tomorrowland and perhaps not for other sporting events or gatherings where risks also exist. I would like to point out that we are in the rule of law and that the police must also respect the rules and, above all, the privacy of citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u32	Minister, last night the Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmus gave a speech in Brussels to commemorate the martyrs of the Turkish coup. For the sake of clarity, it is not about the tens of thousands of judges, journalists, officials, soldiers and dissident citizens who have been arrested or worse since the coup in Turkey in a year. He's talking about the military who died on the regime's side during this coup. It is what it is, but unlike the Netherlands and Austria, we have allowed this Turkish Deputy Prime Minister to come and do his thing. The Austrian Foreign Minister says: 'Turkish authorities are welcome in our country but only to talk to the Austrian authorities, not to do propaganda'. The Dutch minister said: "The presence of Turkish politicians is not appreciated in our country." These are statements that were made quite frequently by your group leader, Mr De Roover. He has even tabled a bill to make propaganda by the Turkish government, the AKP and Erdogan impossible here in our country. You have a chance to do something. The Turkish Deputy Prime Minister is coming to make explicit propaganda in our country. What do we do? Nothing. Are we following the Dutch or Austrian example? Not at all. We leave it under the guise of the false pretence of freedom of expression. My question to you, Minister, is therefore obvious. Why? Why can't in our country what is possible in the Netherlands and Austria, two democratic European countries with a legal arsenal similar to ours? You will be happy to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u33	Mr Dewinter, I can assure you that if I have been looking forward to something, that is to answer your question. I will be very happy to answer your question. First of all, I must say that the Turkish Deputy Prime Minister, to whom you refer, was travelling in our country for two days, at the invitation of the European Parliament. He also met the President of the European Parliament. If you would like more details on that visit, I can refer you to my Foreign Minister, who can give you all the details. As far as my competence, security, is concerned, I can say that we have indeed ensured safety at that meeting, which took place in a hotel, in a closed framework with 300 people present. We did so together with the local police in Brussels. I can say that there was not the least incident there. Public order was perfectly justified. The difference with countries such as Austria and the Netherlands is the possibility to invoke international law, whereby the safety of the Deputy Prime Minister cannot be guaranteed when visiting the country. Well, we have been able to ensure that not only the safety of the Deputy Prime Minister, but of all that manifestation was guaranteed. There was no problem with safety. That's my responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u34	Mr Vice Prime Minister, your answer is completely disappointing. A few months ago, certainly from your group leader Peter De Roover, there is not much left today. Perhaps I can reply only on the basis of quotes from your own group leader. He said, among other things, that "Meetings should not be used to stir up contradictions, not even when it comes to the Turkish Government." We must ensure that Erdogan's long arm, "Dixit De Roover," cannot under any circumstances reach into our cities and our communities. That is what Mr De Roover said here, in the hemisphere. Erdogan's long arm is Deputy Prime Minister, your alter ego in Turkey has already caused enough misery in Turkey itself. We must not tolerate him doing so here too. I will conclude with a final quote from your group leader. I call on this government, as Mr De Roover said, to take action against the way in which the Turkish government, because it is, of course, directed from Ankara, here in our country is causing unrest and creating contradictions and hostility among the people. We must fight this in the most forceful way possible. We now know what strength means to the N-VA. The Turkish Deputy Prime Minister comes to our country in the context of the commemoration of the martyrs of the coup against Erdogan, and he is not put in the way of a thumb-breed, no straw-breed, on the contrary. So much for the power of change, so much for the N-VA's decisiveness!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u35	Minister, we experienced an unprecedented accident on the E411, which paralyzed the roads for three days. To this was added an accident at Nimy on the E19. We can therefore understand the discontent of the users. For my party, this situation underscores the inertia of your government in the issue of the dramatic operational undercapacity of the road police, highlighted in a study on 29 March this year. On 1 March, the deficit exceeded 25 per cent of the workforce, a situation that has never been seen in the last four years, mainly in Wallonia. The consequences include increased response times, increased risks of road congestion in the event of a serious accident, in particular due to staff shortages, and procedures for identifying roads. This accident also highlights the importance of unwavering coordination between all intervention operators. Above all, it shows that your civil protection reform is very quickly likely to weaken the quality of the services provided a little more quickly. The Luxembourg relief zone is currently not in a position to replace Civil Protection in the field of chemical disasters. It is our responsibility that it is unlikely that it will be possible to do so on 1 January 2019 in the absence of a team of chemical incident experts. In this context, the planned closure of the Libramont and Ghlin units on 1 January 2019, accompanied by a 30% reduction in staff, could increase the risk exposure of citizens and indirectly penalise the Walloon economy. The Brussels government and my party believe that this reform seriously undermines the progress of relief operations and calls for a thorough review of your plan. Therefore, Minister, do you maintain the timetable for closing the barracks despite an objective analysis of the needs? Were you aware of operational deficits and associated risks in the Federal Highway Police? What short-term measures will you take to overcome this deficiency, which is likely to disrupt mobility? Finally, do you think that the concertation orchestrated in the event of a serious motorway accident is proving to be efficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u36	Mrs Caprasse, my answer to your first question is yes, my answer to your second question is yes, and my answer to your third question is that we are taking the necessary steps to avoid such problems. We have already responded extensively in the Committee on the Interior to all your questions on civil protection. There were two sessions during which you were not present. I think you have other cats to whip. I think I have answered the same questions several times in plenary. I think you had more to do. I reply and repeat my reasoning: a royal decree taken in 2014, before this government was set up, defined the tasks and responsibilities of the relief zones, that is, the front line. The first aids, as in the case of the E411 motorway accident, are the responsibility of the rescue zone and the Royal Decree makes this clear. But it is true that these areas with a Civil Protection barracks have seen many of their responsibilities transferred to Civil Protection. We will first resolve the situation by examining which responsibilities will be transferred to the relief areas, including equipment and skills. Then, when we are assured that the relief zones can shoulder these responsibilities, we will reorganize Civil Protection. We don't play with security. First thing first: first, the transfer of skills and equipment and then we continue. Where you are right is that there is, in fact, a lack of capacity within the road police. But when we invested this government, we had a lack of capacity everywhere in the federal police! Everywhere! The first thing we talked about was targeting our priorities. Yes, it is true that at a time when the level of threat is maintained at 3, we have focused on federal police departments whose primary task is to combat terrorism. We are continuing our efforts, we are recruiting, we are organising training of new officers and this is also planned for the road police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u37	Thank you, Minister. I see you don't like it when I ask you these questions. I am still very sceptical about the fact that you have made the decision to reduce the Civil Protection barracks. It's a fact. I have the statistics here on the shortage of road police personnel: 16.1% in the province of Namur, 22.2% in Liège, 3% in Hainaut and 41.5% in the province of Luxembourg. These figures are intriguing. I was mainly asking you about the problems caused by this accident. There are a lot of road accidents in that area. That therefore raises the question. I think there's really a lot to do to fix this kind of problem, because three days of immobility is serious!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u38	It is the Walloon Region that is responsible!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u39	Yes, it's always easy to put everything on the Walloon Region's back when it's the federal that's being questioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u40	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, Daesh carried out a real raid on works of art in Syria and Iraq. What they couldn't destroy, they sold it and spread it all over the world. It is also known to be one of their main sources of income. These revenues have allowed them to spread terror and perpetrate terrorist attacks, particularly here in Belgium. While everyone, including UNESCO and Interpol, was ringing the alarm, in Belgium you dismantled the Art and Antiquities cell. While other countries, such as Germany, France and the Netherlands, were strengthening their legislative machinery and, above all, their teams, you decided and proclaimed last year, when I asked you, that this was not a priority of your government. That is why we are now aware of the following situation. Belgium is considered, in particular by UNESCO and Interpol, to be Europe's weak link in the fight against trafficking in works of art. Should I remind you that Khalid El Bakraoui, the Maelbeek terrorist, was involved in the theft of works of art at the van Buuren Museum in 2013? Should I remind you that the same had probably been involved in the theft of a Magritte – Olympia, a Magritte nude – at the Jette Museum and that, indeed, there is a strong link in Belgium between the trafficking of works of art and terrorism? Mr Minister of the Interior, I think it is time to put an end to this irresponsibility? It is time to live up to the stakes and reconstitute this unit of fight against the trafficking of works of art. It is time to respond to the appeals of the international community and international organizations. You know that today the European Commission is issuing new directives to combat trafficking in works of art. To my knowledge, the capacity of the police and customs makes it impossible for us in Belgium to respond to this request from the European Commission. I ask you, therefore, to reunite yourself, to understand the issue of trafficking, the link with terrorism, and to re-establish, at the federal and federal police levels, a real capacity in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u41	Mr. President, Mr. Dallemagne, I'm going to surprise you. I follow you to a large extent. From an organisational point of view, we have discussed this on several occasions, the unit for combating trafficking in art and antiquities was previously made up of one person. The College of Prosecutors, the Federal Police and some stakeholders advised me to reintegrate this cell into the police cells that fight terrorism. We can talk about it. But what is unacceptable, and I am entirely with you, is the fact that our databases are not properly filled and that the information is not shared with our international partners. In addition to discussions about the organization, namely how things should be organized under each circumstance, our country must be able to ensure that its databases and international databases are updated. No excuse is valid. After learning this, I summoned the federal police who assured me that they would do the job of updating the databases. Like you, I think it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u42	Minister, fault admitted, half forgiven. A small half, however, because this is not just the database. It is really a question of reconstructing expertise at the federal level, of reconstructing a cell. You know the Netherlands had dismantled their cell. They reconstructed her. Today, half a dozen people are working on it. In Spain, we have grown from eight to twenty people. In France, we're twenty-five. Today, only one person will not be enough. A team is needed to deal with this problem in a consistent manner. Again this year, in our country, at BRAFA, a mosaic that probably came from Syria was exposed. You also certainly know, as I do, that in early 2017, private robberies and art trafficking were carried out by FTFs and, in particular, by someone who was returning from Syria. There is, therefore, still a link in our country today between terrorism and trafficking in works of art. Minister, we have to take this problem with us. We need to reconstitute this cell. We must finally be able to live up to this challenge and not be the weak link that we are today on the international level. It is our reputation, our responsibility to fight terrorism. I think it is important that, on the day when the European Commission asks all Member States to do better and more, we have the capacity to respond to this demand, both in terms of police, customs and legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u43	Mr President, Minister, as you know, Proximus, the country's main telecommunications operator, has recently presented its strategy for the coming years in Parliament and, this morning, in the media. As a reminder, Proximus is in the hands of the federal state, which holds more than 53% of the shares and employs more than 13,000 people. What interests me today, Minister, is your role, your vision as a shareholder of this telecom operator because things are not always clear and not always consistent. On the one hand, you are arguing for more regulation so that there is more competition in the market. On the other hand, you rejoice every year when Proximus pays the federal government huge dividends. On the one hand, you applaud both hands when Proximus announces 3 billion investments in fibre optics to digitize, digitize Belgium. You are taking back this investment in the federal government's investment pact. On the other hand, you are the first to complain about the price increase of Proximus, recommending – it's a little bit the pompon! – to all our fellow citizens to change telecom operators. In which other country does the minister responsible for public enterprises, the main shareholder of a company, recommend that all its citizens compete? Frankly, it is not serious and, above all, it is not up to the stakes! In our view, a public shareholder must act in a professional and ambitious manner, with a real strategic vision for the development of quality employment, the provision of efficient services, public investment – obviously – investment in infrastructure, for the benefit of all citizens. Minister, what is your ambition as a principal shareholder? What's your plan for Proximus? Sub-question: What is your mobile subscription today, since you announced that you would leave Proximus?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u44	Mr Vanden Burre, telephone rates are high in Belgium. I hope you share that view. I believe that citizens are entitled to lower prices and more competition. It is natural that, as Minister of Telecoms, my first task is to ensure that this competition in the market is guaranteed in order to achieve more innovation and lower tariffs. That's not what you seem to say! You're asking for more investment, but I can't hear you asking for lower prices. For my part, I will continue to pursue a policy in this direction, without letting myself be influenced by some blackmail to investment and by personal attacks. I'll give you a few numbers. A report released today shows that the three Belgian mobile operators are among the eight most expensive in the world with regard to mobile data. That is why we are lagging behind in the development of the mobile internet. The prices are too high. It is true that I received a letter from the CEO of Proximus that evokes a More for More strategy. This means that when the volumes of use increase, it is justified that the prices of the packages also increase. This is not what happens in other European countries where, when volumes increase, prices of packages fall. The IBPT, the regulator, has carried out a market analysis which proposes a list of recommendations aimed at increasing competition while at the same time encouraging investment. This market analysis gives the sector an opportunity, until early September, to react to the conclusions. So the "nerve eruptions" of the press are not justified. With regard to access to fibre, the options proposed by the IBPT are quite open. As regards investment threats, it is common to hear in Belgium that high investments justify high prices. However, the level of Belgian investment corresponds to the European average. The other countries make the same investments, but this does not justify an increase in prices. Compared to dividends, I did not usually call the CEO from time to time and ask about dividends from some of my predecessors. I've never made that kind of call before. What I am asking is that the company set itself a medium- and long-term strategy, taking into account the fact that, yes, we want a regulatory framework that pushes for more competition, which will benefit the consumer. After that, it is up to the company to organize in a more competitive world. I think that's what we expect from politics and not from going to protect one or the other company.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. With regard to the prices, I have no problem hearing you complaining about the tariffs, as the appropriate minister. But from there to turn you into a sales manager of Orange to go ask all our fellow citizens to move on to another operator, admit that it's still something else! What is of interest is that you give a signal, a clear policy as a shareholder. You must not call the CEO every day. No problem with that! Today, what can be seen? A shareholder, as you are today at Proximus, must establish a relationship of trust, a partnership with the management of the company. Unfortunately, this is not the case with your statements encouraging you to go to the competition. Listen this morning to the CEO of Proximus who, as soon as we talk about you, is silent. It's mutism! Frankly, it gives the impression that there is no partnership, that there is no relationship of trust, and that is worrying. A public shareholder must be able to work hand in hand with the management of the companies under his control. Finally, a clear political vision is needed. You say you want more competition in the market and more investment. If Proximus is a public company today, an important leverage is to invest in it in terms of infrastructure. It is this clear vision that we ask of you. But, until now, I'm sorry, apart from the little spikes in the press you're sending to Proximus management, that vision is missing, today!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u46	Mr President, we have been living a highly symbolic moment for a few days. Indeed, we witnessed live the liberation of Mosul. Remember, three years ago, the Islamic State Caliphate was declared the minaret of the mosque in Mosul. Today, just before Mosul's liberation, these same "Naz Islamists" have managed to blow up the minaret of the same mosque in an attempt to destroy – they believe – any future after their passage. However, there are still 200 fighters in Mosul, 80% of whom are non-Iraqis – most of whom are Westerners – who know that they cannot surrender because if they surrender, they will be eliminated. Beyond Mosul, the total pacification of Iraq and Syria is still far from being achieved. Outside these countries, movements close to or affiliated with the so-called Islamic State exist in Libya, Mali, the Central African Republic, northern Nigeria, Sinai, Egypt. In this context, I believe it is important, first of all, to recall Belgium's contribution to the fight against these "Naz Islamists" through military engagement, in particular by our F-16s. This is still the case since 1 July, because there are still fighting in Syria. Minister, the civilian populations have endured the yoke of Daesh and the violence of the fighting. How can the immediate needs of the inhabitants of the city of Mosul be met, particularly through the special agencies of the United Nations? In the longer term, the city authorities will have to restore basic services. Infrastructure will have to be rebuilt, as well as almost the entire city. The voluntary return of all the inhabitants of the city must be encouraged. We know that this poses a problem, especially for Christians in Mosul, who are not in trust. Thirdly, the governance of Mosul and, beyond that, of Iraq as a whole, must absolutely be inclusive, in accordance with the Federal Constitution of Iraq. How can we mobilize the international community to support the government to work towards national reconciliation, in a neutral and objective manner, for the benefit of all citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u47	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, I think we can be pleased with the liberation of Mosul, even though you have recalled that there are still significant pockets of resistance and even though there have been significant civilian casualties. Above all, I want to pay tribute to the Iraqi military forces and to the coalition that supported them. Indeed, there have been many losses in the ranks of Iraqi soldiers, a number of whom were formed by Europeans, notably by Belgium. They managed to take this town anyway. The determination must remain in place. We have not yet liberated the entire occupied area in Iraq. And there are other areas, in Syria or elsewhere, that are still under occupation. In addition to the military operation in which Belgium will continue to participate, there is a need to continue the development of humanitarian action. This will be the case not only in Iraq but also in neighbouring countries. We are investing heavily in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey to welcome refugees and displaced persons. As you pointed out, what will be crucial is reconstruction. It will be necessary to ensure that, physically, basic services can be re-established, and that essential services for the population are re-established. It will also be necessary to move towards reconciliation in order to allow for management representing the different communities. In every case of conflict that we have experienced, especially with different groups that oppose, there is a balance to be struck between reconciliation, the way we work together again and the fight against impunity, transitional justice. There are people who are going to be held accountable. There are others who will probably participate in the development of the new management of Mosul, like other cities in Iraq. I believe that Belgium will continue to work on these issues: military action, humanitarian action, direct participation in reconstruction and the fight against impunity. This is a major issue in Iraq. Unfortunately, this will still be a major issue in many other places. I would like to conclude by paying tribute once again to all those – you have to think about it – who, at the risk of their lives and at times the sacrifice of their lives, are freeing areas that, until then, were under the control of an disgusting terrorist group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I am completely satisfied with. It is from now on that we will have to work on this reconstruction. I know that you will have the ambition to do so at Belgian and European level. The big challenge will be inclusion, both in Iraq and Syria. I would like to conclude my speech by deeply regretting that, even in this Parliament, some people have not hesitated to say that we should not respond to Daesh, who rushes homosexuals from the top of buildings, who rapes and sells women. This is totally deplorable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u49	Mr Minister, obviously you have ventured into the slippery field of family taxation, a complex area that is based on fragile but at the same time well-legitimate balances. By reducing the taxes of families with children, the aim is to take into account their ability to contribute. It is a basic principle, taught everywhere: the presence of children in a household diminishes the ability to contribute. We must therefore be able to take this into account. Your proposal, which I read in the press, would be to standardize the tax-exempt quota, which is now 7,000 euros, to 2,300 euros. You propose to increase it, for each child, by 2,300 euros and no longer take into account the number of children in order to increase this exemption rate increase. If we were to implement your reform, I calculated that a family with three children would lose 600 euros and a family with four children would lose 1,500 euros. Mr Minister, after observing all the injustice of your tax policy, namely the increase in taxes on consumption, which do not take into account the contributory capacity (they are even called regressive taxes), but also the jump in the index, the cuts in social security and, again tomorrow, we will discuss the increase in registry fees, which will hinder access to justice, how dare you propose a tax reform bis, which will increase the tax bill of our fellow citizens who have dependent children? This is unacceptable! We'd like to know, minister, where you're going.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u50	Minister, because the cost of a child is much higher than the tax exemption to which it is entitled, because families, all families, have been hit hard by the savings measures decided by your government, particularly with regard to VAT, the cdH group tabled at the beginning of the year a bill aimed at favouring families by increasing the tax reduction for all children, with particular attention for children with disabilities and single-parent families. You will understand, therefore, that I welcome with some interest your release in the press on family taxation. Especially since the initial assumption that you place "a child equal to a child" is not uninteresting in the absolute: it also inspires part of the ongoing reforms of family allowances. But beyond this interest in principle, I would like to share with you some caution because your advertising effect brings more questions than answers. I have three questions to ask you in practical terms with regard to the method first. First, on whose behalf do you speak, minister? Is it on your own behalf or on behalf of your group and party or on behalf of the government? Is your proposal on the government's agenda or not? Has there been any consultation between the various parties of the majority? Secondly, with regard to the budget framework, we heard your party president say that the return to balance was a joke. You are still Minister of Finance! Is your proposal part of a principle of budgetary neutrality or do you consider that everything is allowed today? Thirdly, Minister, if you sign up for a principle of budgetary neutrality, your reform will necessarily result in winners and losers. By setting the tax advantage at 2,300 euros, you will inevitably reduce the benefit to families from three children. Minister, do you consider the many families so privileged that they must now be penalized by your reform project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u51	Mr President, unlike the two previous speakers, who apparently prefer to leave everything as it is and are conservatively uncomfortable with the social conditions that are changing, the family situation is no longer the same as it was so many years ago, I believe that there is indeed an anomaly in taxation. For the first child, the tax-free sum is increased by EUR 1 520, for the second child by EUR 2 420, for the third child by EUR 4 840, for the fourth child by EUR 5 600 and from the fifth child by EUR 5 400. All children are treated differently today. With the sixth state reform, children's money was transferred to the Communities and the Regions. In Flanders, a clear proposal has now been made to ensure that every child is equal. In Flanders, the Christian Democrats, the nationalists and the liberals have decided that the children's money there will be equal for everyone. It would be logical for this to be effectively extended in taxation as such and for everyone, for every child, to be treated equally. Why is one child, whether it is the third or the first child or the fourth, treated differently in tax terms? You've got to make that clear to us. I do not understand the speeches made by the previous speakers and therefore ask the following very clear questions. Have you calculated whether the proposal you launched in the press will be budget neutral? Where will the threshold per child lie? Please take into account the specific situation, because it is not only every child who needs to be equal, but also every parent who needs to be equal. You know that the concept of family today is fundamentally different. There are many new forms of family composition. No one in this House could have missed that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, although taxation is constantly on the move, we cannot, of course, ignore the fact that tax regimes in a number of areas are no longer compatible with social reality and with the changes in it. On the one hand, we can review reforms such as the tax shift, for example, which has an economic foundation, i.e. the ambition to reduce the burden on work, or digitisation, in which we have undertaken additional steps to improve the ease of use of the Tax-on-Web application. This example illustrates how policy and taxation can meet current needs. On the other hand, it must not be denied that our current tax system was built in the 19th and 20th centuries, and, on the very small side, in the 21st century, while today's realities, as I have already mentioned, are different. In practice, these archaic provisions often result in tax injustices. One of the priorities of this government, and certainly of my cabinet, is to move towards more tax justice. Let me give you an example. The allowance on the duty-free allowance for dependent children is doubled in the case of a disabled child. Because the attacks vary per child, a disabled child is treated differently by the tax authorities according to the order of precedence in the family. That sounds like an anomaly to me. It has already been announced: my cabinet has ordered and received a study from SD Worx to look at the impact of changed forms of society on taxation. We have looked at this study thoroughly and have distilled a number of proposals from it. I will not go into detail about these proposals. They relate, among other things, to the duty-free sum, but go much further. I wanted to say that they will be discussed within the government, but the correct term is that they are being discussed effectively within the government today. They fit within the social superministry council and focus on a number of important societal issues such as eliminating tax inequality, facilitating home care, activating people and supporting the weakest in society. The details of the various proposals, of the way they are conceived, of the budgetary impact, are on the table today within the government. As it should be, they will be discussed and when an agreement is reached, it will be communicated in the course of this month as it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u53	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, you do not deny the intentions that you are being given. Obviously, you do not rule out the possibility of reviewing the taxation of large families and families in particular. Mr Minister, after you've attacked pensioners, sick people, people who are litigants – we'll see again next week, because a dossier will be on the agenda of the plenary session – after you've caught up with a whole series of other people, you're now attacking families with a lot of people. Let me make it clear, Minister, that this is enough! You have to stop closing your holes by smearing households with taxes and cuts in social security. That's enough! Have the courage, Minister, you have the capacity; you have the power to do so; you have the power to do so: go look for the means elsewhere with an ambitious plan to combat tax fraud. Go get the money – I turn to the CD&V – from the speculators. Stop looking in the pockets of the most vulnerable households. I keep telling you! We should finally be able to be heard!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u54	Mr President, Minister, allow me to reply to you on the form and substance. As far as the form is concerned, you say that the proposal is on the table of the government. Of which act! I would like to hear from the various parties of the majority to see if there is a possibility of granting violins. I heard Mr. Van Biesen, but I would like to hear from the other parties. We will see, at that time, whether or not it is a test ball that risks doing pschitt like other test balloons that you have launched in the past. It could still be a file you might be disbanded from. As far as the substance is concerned, I agree with Mr Van Biesen, Minister, that the world is changing and that families are changing. I myself have referred, in the bill that was introduced by the CDH, to the situation of children with disabilities – you mentioned it – and of single-parent families. I therefore agree to open the debate on family taxation, because I believe it is a legitimate debate. I hope that this debate will take place in the Committee on Finance rather than in the press, with the possibility, for example, of hearing from the family leagues. That would not be uninteresting. Therefore, yes for a debate, but not in any case for budget savings on the backs of families and not for the penalisation of large families.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u55	Mr President, Minister, today we are effectively opening the debate in Parliament. Apparently, the government's been working on it for a while. You have put forward a number of proposals and you have made a number of studies in order to look at family taxation at last. Ladies and gentlemen, I can easily stand here. Whatever one may be, as the father of eight children, I will always be involved in every aspect of the dossier. I would like to make one point very clear. It can never be accepted that Parliament should close its eyes to the new family forms that are emerging. An adaptation of our legislation in the area of family taxation is therefore necessary. Minister, you have our support on one clear condition, namely that the total budget is budget neutral. After all, it is unacceptable that a number of Members are already making a preliminaries here today, claiming that the measure is intended to reduce certain funds from families for budgetary reasons. That is not at all the intention of the draft law you are submitting. That is not the intention, but it is the intention to adapt the new types of family to family taxation. Mr Laaouej, first learn what it says, before you interpret newspapers and always draw the wrong conclusions. This is painful for yourself, but not for Parliament, which draws the right conclusions. Minister, you have our agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u56	Mr Calvo asked for the floor in order to deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u57	Mr President, it is a very interesting debate. The Minister of Finance referred to a study by SD Worx. My question is to deliver them to the members of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u58	The question has been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u59	Madam Secretary of State, there are still certainties in life: when the cucumber time comes, Unia always finds a useless debate to spark. Several cities and municipalities today ban the peasantkini in their swimming pools. They all got an opinion yesterday from Unia in their mailbox. In doing so, this institution is picking up a discussion which, as far as I am concerned, should never have been a discussion, one day after the European Court of Human Rights passed a positive ruling on the ban on burqa. Unia may give advice, but I, along with my group, find them completely nonsensical. Now I want to go along with a lot, but denying that a burkini is the expression of inequality between men and women is denying sunlight. The Constitutional Court has literally ruled on the ban on burqa that it promotes equality between men and women. Well, the same goes for the burkini ban. As a society, such a debate can continue, but in the long term we do not know where we are going to end up. As far as I'm concerned, this is where we draw the line. I read in the opinion that Unia attaches great importance to autonomy and to the freedom of decision of the women concerned. What is this freedom of decision worth, however, when one knows that it is constrained by an unbridled belief in a wrong, male interpretation of the Qur'an, which is entirely based on inequality? Many Muslims rightly do not follow that interpretation of their sacred writing. Then why should we, as a society, not be allowed to draw that line? I quote human rights activist Darya Safai: "The burkini is not a back door to get more Muslims to the pool, but a strong signal of the spread of Islamism is our society. Most Muslims are not inclined to wear these clothes at all, and yet we should accept that ultimate symbol of discrimination in the European Community." Perhaps our so-called anti-discrimination institute should see to it sometime. Madam Secretary of State, I have the following questions for you. OCMW president of Antwerp Fons Duchateau has already said that he is rejecting the opinion. I don't think he'll be the only one, but how binding is the advice? The opinion states that Unia would have received some complaints. I'd like to know how many complaints we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u60	Mrs van Peel, you raise an important social phenomenon, which we are increasingly confronted with, and this raises the question of how to deal with it. Unia has sent a recommendation to the local authorities who have informed themselves in recent years about the legality of a ban on the burkini, and to whom the ban has been notified. In 2015 there were 20 notifications, in 2016 there were 11. Those reports shall include those of persons who have expressed their satisfaction with the imposition of a prohibition. It is striking that the discussion is apparently a Flemish matter. No mention is made of French-speaking Belgium. The fact that Unia is dealing here with a major social problem would seriously harm the truth. I am therefore inclined to follow Antwerp ships Duchateau in his analysis that Unia has made a problem of a non-problem. (Protests from Mrs Detiège) May I ask the left side of Parliament to remain calm; at certain moments we must set limits in our society. Apparently, Mrs. Detiège is getting excited.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u61	We'll stay to the point, Mrs Demir. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u62	In any case, the legal value of such an opinion or recommendation is indicative. It's an opinion of Unia and no more than that. I will make three very brief comments on the opinion. The ban on wearing a burkini is not a legal philosophy problem that is being investigated by some of Unia's lawyers or professors at the university. It is a broad social phenomenon that we are increasingly seeing in our society. It is a question of protecting women so that they can develop fully. That is why I am against the burqa and also against the burkini, except for top athletes or when someone wants to hide serious injuries. For most Muslim women, this is not a philosophical debate, it is peer pressure. Allowing the peasant kini, I fear, will only have the effect that almost every Muslim will soon wear the peasant kini, of course all under the heading of great freedom, because they feel so much good about it, which I very much doubt. This is also my criticism of Unia. It is time, high time that institution, however independent, which works with taxpayers' money, evolved along with the justice system. The Court of Justice has already done so with the Achbita judgment. The European Court of Human Rights has recently done so, confirming the ban on facial clothing. With the farmer's advice, Unia once again misses the opportunity to join the evolution, which is less based on freedom-luckyness and which clearly sets limits to freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u63	Madam Secretary of State, it won't be a surprise. It shouldn't be for anyone. I do hope Unia wakes up sometime. If society does not draw any boundaries where equality between men and women is at stake, there will be no more limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u64	End of oral questions. Order of business / Order of business Ladies and gentlemen, I must first put a request to you. Minister Borsus asks for item 11 of our agenda to be dealt with in conjunction with item 1, due to similar problems. If you have no objection, this will be done. Are you sure you don't mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u65	The interveners at point 11 will be notified of that, won't they?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u66	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u67	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u68	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u69	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is implementing an increase in minimum pensions decided by the social partners under the AIP and the welfare envelope. It is clear that we welcome the increase in minimum pensions for both employees and the self-employed, which will be dealt with earlier in item 11 of the agenda, if I am not mistaken. Unfortunately, we must again regret that the government is not implementing the agreement of the social partners as a whole, despite the Prime Minister's commitment to fully implement the AIP. The social partners unanimously asked the government to remove the distinction between full and incomplete careers with a single basic amount. The ideological distinction imposed by you about a year ago, which you insist on maintaining, not only causes practical problems but above all, penalizes women who, as we know, are more likely to have an incomplete career. So you did not seize the opportunity to restore equality, and we regret it. Mr Minister, despite a very clear letter sent to you by the Group of Ten, with a copy to the Prime Minister, you said in committee that your project was fully implementing the social agreement. Basically, you say that the social partners do not know the content of their own agreement. Recognize that this is bad faith! In fact, Minister, with this project, you are opening the door to further discrimination in the future. Besides, if it were up to you, you would have strengthened this distinction, you did not hide it. Let us be clear, it is not by penalising people, mainly women, who have the bad luck not to have a full career that people who have a full career will be guaranteed a pension higher than the minimum pension. Mr Minister, your communication is misleading: you have simply chosen to maintain an ideological position against the unanimous opinion of the social partners, again demonstrating your contempt for social consultation. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u70	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will remember that between 2011 and 2014, minimum pensions increased by around 57 euros for single persons and 71.23 euros for households, with amounts reaching 1,123.34 euros and 1,403.73 euros respectively at the end of 2014. As you know, one of the government's priorities is to raise the lowest pensions for both wage earners and self-employed people. The same applies to GRAPA allowances. We will discuss this after the debate on the self-employed bill. Thus, in just two years, the minimum pensions we are treating have been increased to 1 176.91 euros for a single person and 1 470.67 for a household, an increase already recorded of 53.27 euros for the former and 67 euros for the latter. However, the government – by the voice of its Minister of Pensions – did not wish to leave it there. The bill before us includes the agreement of the social partners in the 2017-2018 interprofessional agreement on welfare liaison, allowing for an increase in the minimum pensions of the private sector. I allow myself a slight digression about the wellness envelope. For the period 2015-2016, it amounted to EUR 946.7 million. In 2017-2018, the total amount is set at €676.7 million, of which €348 million is earmarked for raising pensions. Never has that amount been so high. This demonstrates the importance attached by the government, but also by the social partners, to the fight against poverty among our seniors. To get back to the subject before us, what does this bill actually contain? Colleagues, this text intends to subject to your vote a 1.7% increase in minimum pensions for employees whose careers are incomplete; a 15% reduction between minimum and single minimum retirement pensions; finally, a provision to differentiate between complete and incomplete career situations. These measures will enable the implementation of the decisions taken by the social partners under the IPA 2017-2018. Indeed, if you reread the text of the AIP, nothing, absolutely nothing is said about the differentiation made according to the completeness of the career. It would not be professional to pretend otherwise. As regards the establishment of a legal framework to differentiate careers, it is true that this project will allow a difference in treatment, whether or not the pensioner has performed a competitive career. The whole stakes of our discussion will lie in the choice of keeping different reference amounts depending on whether or not pensioners will benefit from a full career. By royal decree, the project will increase the minimums by 1.7 per cent for an incomplete career, to the same level as the minimum pensions for full careers. These increases will take effect from 1 September next. It is not only a question of allowing the increase of minimum pensions for an incomplete career but also of reducing the remaining gap between the minimum survival pensions and the minimum pensions at the "isolated" rate. This will contribute to the increase in the purchasing power of many pensioners and to the remoteness of the spectre of poverty among our seniors. My group and I will support these government initiatives. We invite you to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u71	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are naturally also pleased that the government is increasing the minimum pension. I believe that this is absolutely necessary. Eurostat figures show that the risk of poverty in our country rose to 21.1% last year. Preferably a Belgian out of five is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. That's hallucinating. Although the figures for pensioners are slightly better, they do not continue to evolve in the right direction. An increase in the minimum pension should increase the welfare of those concerned and, above all, reduce the risk of poverty. I believe that both ministers agree that this is a step in the right direction, but that it is only a step in the right direction. The risk of poverty among pensioners, especially those with a minimum pension, is still very high. If you have to live with 1 100 euros, you can't have a rental house in Ghent today or the entire pension goes up to the rent. We are therefore satisfied with the increase. That does not alter the fact that I have a few comments to make. Firstly, let us not forget that the government originally intended that only those with a full career, i.e. with a 45-year career, should receive an increase in their minimum pension. The measure would not apply to the others. It is thanks to the social partners that this injustice has been rectified. I'll come back to that later. Secondly, you will agree with me that an increase of 1% for full careers and 1.7 % for incomplete careers is insufficient. The Belgian minimum pension continues to hang around the European poverty threshold. Both colleagues and Mrs Thoron have just said that the government has already increased the minimum pensions very much. I do not deny that, but the same is true of the previous governments. The current government has therefore done absolutely nothing special or extra; the minimum pension continues to evolve in the same direction. Even more, especially in the case of women and female pensioners, who often receive only a minimum pension, I shall come back to this later on: the risk of poverty is rising spectacularly, exponentially. You can beat on the chest because the government is taking such good care of minimum pensions, but I would be a little more careful with that. Thirdly, the increase in the minimum pension is certainly not sufficient to compensate for all the increased invoices. Think also of the index spong and the loss of pay that everyone has suffered, especially the pensioners. In fact, there is no compensation for pensioners for the index jump, because most pensioners cannot incur professional costs. Added to this are the increased retirement bills, the more expensive hospitalisation insurance and the increased electricity and water prices. Ladies and gentlemen, these things weigh more heavily on pensioners, because they are much more at home and therefore have higher consumption. However, it is mainly women, even women, who are more affected. Mr Daerden has just shown it. Women have an average career of 36 years. In the case of women with a minimum pension, the proportion of those with a full career is much lower. Moreover, if one makes a difference between those who have a 45-year career and those who do not have a 45-year career, then that makes a double difference for women. Minister, you do not follow the advice of the social partners. I can certainly endorse Mr Daerden's criticism in that regard. Mrs Thoron, you said it wasn't in the agreement. Unfortunately, I don't have the French version, but I'll read it in Dutch: From 1 September 2017, the basic amount for calculating the minimum pensions for full and incomplete careers will be the same again, both for employees and self-employed persons." That's what the deal was. The basic amount related to this shall be the same for a full or incomplete career. This is clearly not the case in this proposal. You will argue that the difference is small, Minister. At that point, I must agree with you. Now the difference is small. But you'll build it in. This means that it can certainly increase in the future. Why else would you build it in? You always want to promote a career of 45 years; that's your mantra. The others must pay for this, regardless of why they do not have a career of 45 years. This is what you are re-entering in the present design. Once again this happens to the detriment of women, who hardly ever have a 45-year career. The average for that category is 36 years, as I said. Minister, I would like to reiterate that it is entirely the responsibility and merit of the social partners that even those who do not have a 45-year career are still eligible for the increase. It is therefore inconceivable that, despite the Prime Minister's statement here at the request of several Members of Parliament that the government would fully implement IPA, you do not do so, whatever you may claim. We have discussed this in detail in committee. Even in a letter from the VBO, the president wrote: "The texts submitted do not implement the agreement correctly, since the distinction between minimum pensions for a full and incomplete career is expressly maintained. Minister, the social partners have also written to you about this. Unfortunately, they did not receive an answer to that letter. You always say that you consider social dialogue to be very important and that we must follow social dialogue. Why should the social partners still make an effort if an agreement reached by employers and employees is not being implemented by you? Mr Minister, I repeat that my group can only welcome the increase in the minimum pension. However, it must be more. Respect the social consultation and take responsibility. Finally, come up with a global plan for pensions instead of doing something piece by piece each time, taking something away and changing something, when we do not really know where you are going. You pass on a great deal to the social partners and when they conclude an agreement, you do not follow it. Finally, Minister, as you will have understood, we will abstain because the text represents fundamental inequality, discrimination, against women who do not have a full career and who are unlikely to have a full career in the future either. After all, even today, women still tend to take care of children when they are ill or when parents need to be cared for. When one is single, Minister, and one has to take care of children, one is often unable to take up a full-time job and one has to go to work part-time. This has an incredibly high impact on retirement at the end of the career. This confirms once again the discrimination. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u72	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, who defend the two texts, ladies and gentlemen, beyond sufficient funding through alternative funding that we have been waiting for since the beginning of the parliamentary term, and I must admit that, beyond close consultation with the social partners, environmentalists expect a pension policy to ensure a minimum pension amount sufficient to avoid an increase in the risk of poverty compared to today. He's on the rise, and others, before me, said so. This policy must be attentive to the plight of women who, through our current pension system, are discriminated against, as they are on the labour market. They more often have incomplete careers, sometimes for family reasons inherited from past times. As far as your texts are concerned, we can only support the principle of an increase in minimum pensions, without shouting at the exploit, Mrs Thoron. This increase only partially offsets other negative measures, such as the uncompensated index jump for pensioners. I would also point out that this is the result of social consultation, of the social partners' request to allocate the welfare envelope. It is therefore a collective choice, on the understanding that it is very insufficient in relation to the issues at stake. Your two texts, however, pose a problem in the sense that you maintain a distinction in the basis for calculating minimum pensions, based on a full or incomplete career. For incomplete careers, a coefficient proportional to the length of the career is applied and you do so against the initial and repeated opinion of the social partners. Of course, in your texts the amounts are almost the same, but this is not, as the social partners ask, a single amount. But your intention, which is not even hidden and which you have defended in the Committee on Social Affairs – I am aiming at Mr Bacquelaine here because I did not have the debate with Mr Borsus, it is my colleague, Mr Vanden Burre who represented us in this debate – is tomorrow to change the reference amounts differently, whereas this is a correction explicitly requested by the social partners in relation to your previous initiative, which was itself criticized by the Council of State. He pointed out that by choosing different basic amounts for calculating the minimum pension according to whether there is a full or incomplete career, women were discriminated against because today they have more incomplete careers. The social partners have identified the problem, as we did a year ago. They explicitly asked us to change things. You felt that things were not as explicit in their original opinion, and they wrote to you several times. They told you that you misunderstood them, and that they were asking for a single reference amount. The President of the FEB, on behalf of the Group of Ten, sent you a letter saying that you do not respect the outcome of the social dialogue. It's still a rare enough event to be mentioned. Mr Bacquelaine, followed by Mr Borsus, continued to disregard social dialogue. This is disappointing and problematic for two reasons. The first is obvious: for the socio-economic stability of our country, we need a social dialogue that works. I have heard, in this same forum, here at the bottom, the Prime Minister rejoice at the agreement reached between the social partners, and commit himself to respect it to the word, literally, also saying "this is the result of our government's action". And you, Minister of Pensions, sit down on the Prime Minister's commitment! That's the problem! We need a social dialogue that works in our country. The second obvious reason is that we are facing a government, which I have described as misogyne in this case, which does not respect women. If you are allowed to do so, the Minister of Pensions, tomorrow, more women will receive pensions that are insufficient to live in dignity, and more women will be at risk of poverty. Instead of allowing you to correct a pre-existing inequality, your entry into office as Minister of Pensions will allow you to accentuate it blindly and disrespectfully. Unlike my colleagues who have spoken before me in this rostrum, we will vote on your text provided that you adopt the amendment that we have introduced, with their co-signature, to implement explicitly and respect the agreement of the social partners, in order to respect the social dialogue and to make it work in this country that needs it so much, but also in such a way as to respect women more and to combat the situations of poverty that they too often face.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, at first glance, this text may seem quite positive. It provides for an increase of 1.7% in the minimum pensions of employed persons on the basis of an incomplete overall career and an increase of 1% in the minimum pensions on the basis of a full overall career, with effect from 1 September. At the same time, there is a detail which is anything but negligible since this text introduces differentiation according to the types of careers, complete or incomplete. If this project purports to implement the opinion of the social partners in the context of the IPA 2017-2018 as regards the link to the welfare of allowances, in particular the minima, this detail is absolutely not in line with the will of the social partners! Minister, you are bragging about implementing the IPA agreement, but it is not because you have made the most political choice to introduce differentiations. You and the Prime Minister have not even bothered to respond to the letter sent to you by the social partners, nor to meet with them to talk to them. I would like to quote a partner of your majority. Once it is not customary, and even if it is not in the room at the moment, I will use the words of my colleague Nahima Lanjri in committee. I hope that his CD&V colleagues who are present will listen with one ear and repeat my words to him. Ms Lanjri said: "The 1.7% and 1% increases proposed by the social partners have the effect of restoring in practice equality between full and incomplete careers. However, the project has the effect of anchoring in the legislation a difference in the basic amounts of these two types of pension. It must be avoided that this project will allow different amounts for these two types of pensions to be fixed again in the future." Mrs Lanjri is absolutely right. I see behind his remarks the fingerprint and position of the CD&V on this file. Minister, you have given no guarantee for the future in this regard. The risk is real. You make an eminently political choice. There is a good chance that it will come true, if I believe the words of members of the N-VA, who have not deprived themselves of expressing their dissatisfaction with the fact that full and incomplete careers were placed on an equal footing. Is it worth recalling that in 2016, the Council of State had clearly called into question the use of the full career criterion for the proposed increase in minimums due to the penalisation of certain categories of persons, mainly women? Mrs Thoron, if I follow your reasoning, since we are raising pensions, it is not a problem for women to be injured. It's a funny line of reasoning and a funny approach. Colleagues, Mrs Thoron, I will give you a few figures. It's not uninteresting. Think, for example, of today's little girls who, tomorrow, will be women and who are still at risk of having, for some, incomplete careers. Consider the group of pensioners with mixed careers and the self-employed. We deal with almost both issues at the same time, as these are the first two projects on the agenda. In pensioners with a career only in the self-employed scheme, the number of men eligible for the increase voted in 2016 is 13.6 times higher than the number of women: 19,656 men benefited from this measure, compared with 1,443 women. In the group of pensioners with a mixed wage-earner-independent career, the number of men who benefited from the increase is 4.8 times higher than the number of women: 58,881 men benefited from this measure, compared with 12,219 women. I am therefore not your reasoning and, conversely, I am fully the one that was expressed by my colleague Nahima Lanjri in committee. Even if there is only one in the room right now, I would like to turn to the women of this assembly, and first to the women of the CD&V. Dear colleagues, I invite you to follow the logic of your colleague Nahima Lanjri. And I would ask you to look at the amendment tabled by my colleague Georges Gilkinet, which we are many who have co-signed. This amendment really avoids, in the future, what you yourself have denounced in committee, namely that there are different amounts depending on the full or incomplete careers. The Minister states that he is willing to maintain a link between actual work and pension. I agree, I find this argument defensible from a principle point of view. On the other hand, used on this issue of minimum pensions, this argument is totally questionable. This project, with regard to minimums, whether for full or incomplete careers, concerns groups that are vulnerable: women, older people in poverty. This is why it requires an approach that does not differentiate between complete and incomplete careers. I turn once again to the CD&V. If this amendment makes it clear that there is no differentiation in the future, we will vote positively on this bill. Conversely, it will be impossible for us to follow your logic. I imagine that the CD&V will be consistent with itself by not following this logic, which, indeed, makes the choice for tomorrow and the day after tomorrow to introduce even greater discrimination and, in particular, against women and also the most disadvantaged, since we are dealing here with minimum pensions. Ladies and gentlemen of the assembly, I hope that in this matter you will have a reflection which will emerge from the usual carcan of a majority who pushes on the button without necessarily daring to express important principles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u74	Mr President, Minister, we appreciate the effort to increase small pensions in the social sector. In our view, raising minimum pensions is an important measure to combat poverty among seniors and, in particular, among retired women. However, by deciding to increase the minimum pensions of employees with incomplete overall careers by 1.7%, and to increase the pensions of those with full careers by 1%, you are pursuing another, much more political, goal of finding a compromise among your majority. Part of your majority defends, first and foremost, the logic of reserving significant increases to people with a full career. You yourself said that you joined this thesis. In fact, no one seems to be fully satisfied with joining your bill, which could comfort you in the idea that you have actually achieved a good compromise between the will of the social partners and yours, but at what cost? You renounce pursuing a more ambitious goal of fighting poverty. If the risk of poverty falls for older people, we still need to make a lot of efforts to reach the Europe 2020 target. Between 2008 and 2018, the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion must be reduced by 380,000 people In 2008, there were 2.194 million people in this target group. In 2018, it is expected to have 1.814 million people. Belgium has also made commitments within the framework of the sustainable development goals approved by the UN General Assembly in 2015. The aim is to reduce the share of the population living in poverty by at least half by 2030. This implies that, by 2030, the share of our population living in poverty should no longer exceed 10.6 per cent, which represents a halving of the proportion measured in 2015, that is, 21.1 per cent. The increase in minimum pensions is of course contributing to the achievement of these objectives, as older persons risk, in particular, shifting to poverty in the event of health problems. And you preferred a minimum option against the views of the social partners. However, it is the social partners who are responsible for raising small pensions as part of their inter-professional agreement. The Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service and the Group of Ten (G10) unanimously blame you for not having properly implemented this agreement. They sent you letters in this sense, in vain! Social consultation is once again despised in favour of a reactionary right-wing ideology, which does not even take into account the unanimous opinion of the living forces of our economy. Social consultation is not the only one to pay the price of your political choice. Women also pay and the price is high! Because it is they who most often have incomplete careers. Of those receiving a minimum pension, only 40 per cent of women have a full career compared to 60 per cent of men. Minister, for all these reasons, we will not support your project, but we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your constructive statements, as always. I recall that the agreement of the Group of Ten is fully respected. I reaffirm it! I agree that the Group of Ten, after the agreement was published, sent me a letter. The FEB Presidency sent me a letter. I know your attachment to the FEB, Mr. Daerden, but despite everything, I think that this letter simply expressed the idea of a common basis of calculation for both systems (full pension and incomplete pension). This is not reflected in the agreement, which provides for 1.7% for incomplete careers and 1% for full careers. The agreement provides that, as from 1 September 2017, minimum pensions for an incomplete career will be increased by 1.7% and for a full career by 1%. These increases are included in the text. That is what matters: realigning the amounts. That's what we do. It is true that we are not going back to Parliament's decision last year to provide for a differentiated increase. For me, Parliament's vote is as valuable as a letter signed by the President of the FEB. I'm saying it clearly. From time to time, politics must be expressed. I can hear Mrs Fonck when she says that this is an eminently political choice. What I'm claiming, of course. That is what we are doing here: politics, it seems to me. I hope so. Parliament decided last year to differentiate between full and incomplete careers; today, in order to respect the agreement of the social partners, we realign the amounts, but we allow the possibility – no decision is taken on this – to ensure that in the future there are sometimes differentiations that strengthen the link between work and pension. Remember the recent episode of Caroline and Virginia, who found it deeply unfair that someone who worked his whole life with 40 or 45 years of low-wage career was entitled to a lower minimum pension than other people who had worked much less. We were all made aware of this experience. We must remember that in order to make decisions. We're not penalizing anyone today. On the contrary. We're raising minimum pensions. Let's go to the debate on women. I am sometimes surprised by the arguments that are opposed to me. Ms. Fonck quoted some figures. I could quote others. When last year the minimum pension for full careers of employees was increased by 0.7 per cent, 52,000 women and 24,000 men were covered. So it's quite the opposite, in that case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u76	How many women do they not have access to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u77	Yes, but it was 52,000 women who benefited from the measure – and only 24,000 men. That's the reality. It is not possible to solve all career gap problems through the pension system. Moreover, this would be extremely perverse, because it would mean that, if it were used to compensate for career inequalities, they would be endorsed. This is a deeply vicious reasoning. In fact, we need to work on employment policy – as we do – so that, gradually, women can benefit from more important careers than is currently the case on average. That's even what's happening. I invite you to read the report of the Study Committee on Ageing, published yesterday, which deals in particular with the poverty line. The poverty threshold is already reached by government policy for the minimum pension of single people, but not yet for a minimum pension of households. Since the accession of the government in October 2014, the minimum pension for employees has been increased by 89 and for self-employed persons by 151 euros. These are extremely large increases compared to previous ones. For the first time in this Parliament, we are going beyond the poverty line in terms of minimum pensions. It's the first time! In previous legislatures, minimum pensions were below the poverty line. I think we have to recognize this, because it's a fact and it's so much better, of course. The Study Committee on Ageing stresses this. He also stresses that the reforms we are undertaking reduce the risk of poverty in our country, especially for pensioners. He adds, Mrs. Temmerman, especially for women. Why especially for women? Because the measures we are taking in terms of extending careers and raising ages in terms of early retirement and legal pensions, women, who often start working later, now have the opportunity to extend their careers and thus increase the amount of their pensions. That's the truth. It is not the government that says it, it is the Review Committee on Ageing that makes this very clear in its report. He said that last year. It reaffirms this year. I think it was important to clarify this again today. We shall therefore, I hope, vote for these minimum pension increases, which are an additional step in the upgrading of small pensions. We will continue this effort because I think it is legitimate and necessary. But let us stop considering that one or the other category of persons is penalized when it is considered that minimum pensions for a full career deserve consideration in relation to the work performed during the career! I think we all have an interest in not only increasing minimum pensions, fighting poverty more actively, but also promoting work and longer careers. It is about the financial sustainability of our system, while ensuring a social performance of the pension system in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u78	Minister, in two words, as I said, I agree with you on the need to upgrade pensions, particularly minimum pensions. There is no equivocation in relation to this! I understand from your answer that you confirm your contempt for the opinion of the social partners. You said it clearly: "They can think what they want; we have decided here, in parliament, what we want." So you confirmed this contempt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u79	Mr President, I will make a few very brief comments. Mr. Secretary, coming back to Virginie and Caroline has nothing to do with this. It was about someone who had been unemployed most of her life. Today we cannot do this anymore, because then we will be suspended. I find it rather populist to come back to that over and over again. It has nothing to do with what we're talking about here. I would like to say once again that the risk of poverty for women with a minimum pension is rising spectacularly, Minister. With this legislation, you will promote this once again. You're quoting numbers, and those numbers are right. I'm not talking about the difference between men and women. It's about women having an incomplete career more often. The number of women who retired in 2014 was 169 670. Of these there are 104 000 who do not have a 45-year career. If you compare this to men, there are a lot more women without a 45-year career. That's how our society is still together. The fact that we are dealing today with more divorces and single-parent families, and the fact that children still end up with women more often than with men, means that women still have an incomplete career. They have to stay home much more for the children. They often have a part-time job. In the original proposal, you also wanted to be treated as such. That has now been omitted, but I'm sure this will return. This too is to the detriment of women. Even with the treated periods, women find it difficult to achieve a 45-year career. You say that the social partners have made that distinction, with 1% for full careers and 107 % for incomplete careers. You have taken that over, which is correct, but the social partners said that the aim was to return to the basic amount mentioned in the Law of 6 July 2016. I am right that you do not have the right to do so, but do not say that you respect the agreement concluded by the social partners, because you do not. Then just admit you don't. You then say that the social partners did not say that, but that is not correct. Moreover, they have sent you a letter confirming that, but you keep saying that you respect the social agreement. Minister, you do not respect the social agreement at all. On the threshold of poverty, you quote the Study Committee on Ageing, but you do not quote another passage. I read: "The results (...) show that the risk of poverty for pensioners has fallen significantly from 2005 to 2013. I quote: 'It seems to then stabilise.' So it does not fall any further, even though you should actually reduce it, because the risk of poverty among pensioners is still a major problem and it remains, a fortiori, a bigger problem for women with a minimum pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u80	Mr President, Mr Minister, as you stress, our criticism is constructive since we are tabling an amendment to reconcile your text with the opinion of the social partners. For the rest, there is no deafer than the one who doesn't want to hear. Unfortunately, you are the specialist. You have the art of twisting reality and numbers. When the social partners write to you three times to clarify their initial opinion that you misunderstood, the least we can do is to listen to them and respect their request, which is simply not to discriminate beyond what they are already the beneficiaries of a minimum pension depending on whether they have a full or incomplete career. It should be noted that those with an incomplete career have only a proportion of the minimum pension. It should not be suggested, as you like to do, that the person who does not have a full career and who receives the minimum pension receives the full pension. He is already penalized according to his career. You add to this penalty, quite logical, the willingness to take different reference amounts. By the figures, by the reality of careers today, we find that these are more women who have incomplete careers for reasons of discrimination in the labour market, for reasons of the family, good or bad but often bad. I said it in my introduction. I think a pension minister should have the reading grid "Genres" when he takes action. But here, you do exactly the opposite. It's like you're trying to penalize them. The Council of State told you about this a year and a half ago; the social partners told you very clearly in their opinion, but you are only doing it at your head. It's really bad and bad. Since you have dealt generally with your pension policy, I would like to reiterate that we are contesting it because it adjusts pension interventions to the means rather than seeking complementary means in the light of the reality of an ageing society. It is gratifying to be able to live longer. It therefore takes alternative financing to maintain a well-functioning pension system, which you do not do. You do not take into account, as part of your desire to increase the length of careers, the persistence of certain careers. You are going to answer that you are waiting for the opinion of the social partners, but I think it is good enough for you to move forward on the measures that penalise workers. I'm not going to go back to the credit-time. I look forward to seeing, in the context of your policies and the room for manoeuvre available to you, policies to improve the incomes of retired women, more and more of whom are in situations that do not allow for a dignified life and expose them to the risk of poverty. It's for us unbearable. Now, you want to accentuate that. It's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u81	Mr President, I did not intend to intervene, but I always find it a little difficult to quote false figures. I have the report of the Committee of Inquiry for Ageing before me, Mrs Temmerman. I assume you have it in front of you, too. It's literally on page 56. I will just quote because I do not want to waste too many words on this. The projection of the poverty risk of pensioners, given the income concept of the poverty threshold in MIDAS, is slowly falling. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah... yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Afterwards, the projection shows a faster decrease. This is the result of the current policy, because it goes on: "The evolution of the risk of poverty among pensioners is mainly determined by two factors." Firstly, the evolution of the minimum scheme in pensions, minimum pensions and the IGA; and secondly, the draft legislation we are discussing today, which means that the risk of poverty will be reduced. Down! It is the measures taken by the Minister of Government, who have the effect of reducing the risk in the long term. And from 2030 it will fall even faster than it is now. Moreover, as you have already said, there is an increase in the employment rate of women. I did not want to intervene, but let the figures be the figures and let us not abuse them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u82	Mr Spooren, I did not mention 2030 and 2040. I've read the report, too. I won't deny this. I have not given the figures you are quoting at all, but I have said that this government is always saying that it is because of it that the risk of poverty is falling and that minimum pensions are rising. I also quoted from the report. The report shows that the risk of poverty of pensioners has fallen significantly, I did not say: increased from 2005 to 2013. That was in the previous period, Mr Spoorten. The IGO also dates from the previous period. All these measures have reduced the risk of poverty. Next, it appears to be important to stabilize it. For us, it has to go further down, Mr Spoorten. I think you've also read those studies, the risk of poverty for single women is increasing. Those are numbers, too. We are simply warning against this. You distinguish between complete and incomplete careers. It is quite right what Mr Gilkinet says, that does not mean that someone with a full career will have the same pension as someone with an incomplete career, because it is shared by the forty-five, if one has worked for only 35 years, one has 35/45. But the basic amount on which the calculation is made is also different. That's what we're suing. We believe that this basic amount should be the same both for full and incomplete careers. If this is not the same, it is detrimental to women because women are much more obliged, because of their family situation, to have an incomplete career. That's what we're suing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u83	Minister, I also have this recent report from the Study Committee on Aging. The 71 pages of the report should be taken into consideration, not just those of interest to you. I fully agree with my colleague, Mrs Temmerman. The least we can say is that the positive developments in this area are not the result of the measures that have been decided here since 2014, but rather of the measures that have been taken under the previous government. You say that you respected the agreement of the social partners and that the president of the FEB wrote to you. He did not write to you as president of the FEB, but as president of the Group of Ten. You know that very well! In doing so, your remarks about the facts are again particularly truncated, and you hold them voluntarily. Finally, I would like to touch on an issue that signals the political choice that has been made. In my opinion, each party in your majority obviously did not have the same position in this regard. Earlier, I recalled the position of the CD&V, which was expressed in committee. Minister, what is the wellness envelope for? It is intended to improve the lowest pensions and not just those for a full career. You choose to say that, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, incomplete careers will evolve little, less quickly, not in the same way as full careers. That's what's wrong! This is about people who are among the most disadvantaged or who are unfortunately victims of incomplete careers. In many cases, these are women who have incomplete careers, not by choice, but because they could not do otherwise or because, in the sectors in which they worked, they did not have the opportunity to have full-time work or to combine part-time work, not to mention the consequences of different maternity and the management of the whole family dimension throughout their professional career. It is an eminently political and also very ideological choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u84	Mr President, my reply will be short, because everything has been said. It is clear that at DéFI, we have always been in favour of your pension bill. However, when we see how women and their partial careers are considered, we can no longer accept them. This is the reality on the ground: too many women, as my colleagues have said, have been forced to work part-time. They are penalized at the end of their careers and this is deeply unfair. I repeat that we will abstain because of these criteria, although at the beginning we were not against your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u85	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u86	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2492/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2492.3) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u87	• 4 – Georges Gilkinet cs (2492/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u88	• Georges Gilkinet cs (2492/07)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u89	• 6 " Georges Gilkinet cs" (2492/07) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u90	Sustained: the vote on the amendments that have been adopted and Articles 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u91	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u92	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u93	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u94	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reassure you that I will not be long in intervening since many of the elements included in this bill have been dealt with by my colleague Stéphanie Thoron in his speech at the beginning of the sitting. Over the period 2011-2014, the minimum pensions for self-employed workers increased by around €53 for single persons and by €73 for households. Although these increases were intended to bring the pensions of the self-employed closer to those of the employees, a gap between the two still existed at the beginning of the legislature. The government, through the voice and action of its Minister of the Self-Employed, has continued its work of harmonising minimum pensions between employed and self-employed persons. Thus, in just two years, we can welcome this complete harmonisation, which brings the minimum to EUR 1 212 for isolated people and EUR 1 515 for households. This is an increase of 151 and 111 euros respectively since 2015. To this end, the draft law before us implements the agreement of the social partners, within the framework of the 2017-2018 interprofessional agreement on the link to well-being, makes it possible to increase the minimum pensions for self-employed persons by 1% for full careers and by 1.7% for incomplete careers and a 15% reduction between the current minimum survival pension and the "isolated" minimum retirement pension for self-employed persons. This reform is expected to take effect from 1 September next. The last aspect on which my group and I are pleased is the contribution made by this project, once again, to reduce the risk of poverty among our seniors who have worked as self-employed and, moreover, for women who have a proportionally more often an incomplete career. In conclusion, Minister, the Michel government is committed to eliminating any difference in minimum pensions between employees and self-employed persons. At mid-legislature, we managed to do so. In this capacity, I can only congratulate and rejoice us. Our group is very proud of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u95	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2493, the IGO, or the proposal on the pensions of the self-employed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u96	There's been a mistake, indeed. It concerns item 11 of the agenda, namely the draft law amending the Law of 15 May 1984 on measures for harmonization in the pension scheme. With my apologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u97	Mr President, I would like to refer to my previous speech. I could repeat it identically for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u98	Thank you, Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u99	Mr President, I also refer to Mr Gilkinet's excellent speech on the previous subject, which is quite related to our position on the pension of the self-employed. Indeed, we have the same position and we have the same regrets as those expressed by my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u100	Mr. Speaker, my intervention on this bill will be brief. Mr Borsus, you have used us to better political choices. The project on the table is positive on some points, but calls for regret and disappointment. It is positive in that it raises the minimum pensions of the self-employed who have had an incomplete career and aligns them with those of the employees. It's the equalization of statutes. That has also been mentioned, and we recognize it. In this project, you address the main concern of the self-employed: their pension. It has been sufficiently discussed, and it has also been possible to learn about it in the press. This obviously contributes to the improvement of the social status of the self-employed. However, let me express a few regrets and disappointments, in the sense that the bill now institutionalizes a different regime, depending on whether the career has been complete or not. This is not in line with the 2017-2018 Interprofessional Agreement. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although the differences in amounts are small according to the plans, there are risks for the future. These are those that I would like to discuss with you, in the sense that, through the passage of this bill, there are doors open to greater differences in the future, including the impact on women who are frequently faced with career breaks imposed by the circumstances of life; this does not necessarily encourage female entrepreneurship. The government believes it is necessary to encourage those who have a full career and who strive to work throughout their lives. It is written on page 7 of the committee's report, where our colleague, Bert Wollants, refers to this fact. But the government must also be attentive and take into account the situation of those who, because of family needs, do not have the opportunity to have a full career. These are the risks that I wanted to raise in my speech. Despite the positive aspects of this project, we must express our fears and express our disappointment. That is why we will abstain at the time of the final vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u101	Mr President, Minister, in our view, raising minimum pensions is an essential measure to combat poverty among seniors, especially retired women. We therefore appreciate this effort and are in favour of aligning the minimum pension of the self-employed with that of the employees. However, as I have already had the opportunity to say here to the Minister for Pensions about raising minimum pensions for employees, we deplore the lack of respect that the government shows for the social partners. The latter, however, initiated these measures following the interprofessional agreement. They blame your government for failing to implement this agreement properly, as they do not wish to distinguish between the beneficiaries of a full career and those with an incomplete career. I'm surprised that you don't have much of an opinion from the FEB and the UCM. I see above all the reflection of a conservative right-wing ideology, little in line with the living forces of our economy, but which predominates among the majority. According to this idea, a relationship between pension and work must be favoured, to the detriment of the fight against poverty – relegated to the background. This is all the more regrettable given that several observers consider that the economic crisis can have a greater impact in terms of poverty among the self-employed than among other groups, as their incomes are much more sensitive to economic fluctuations. According to the UCM, one in three independents claim to earn less than €15,000 a year before taxation. When they reach the age when they often have to face higher costs in terms of health care and home help, the minimum pension becomes very important – especially for those with an incomplete career. The situation of women is of particular concern to us in this regard. Among the persons receiving a minimum pension, only 40 per cent of women have a full career compared to 60 per cent of men. I repeat, because it is a fundamental aspect. Minister, for both of these reasons, we will abstain from voting on your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make no mistake in our debate. Today we are deciding on a further increase in the minimum pension for the self-employed. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a moment of your attention. Depending on the categories (isolated), widower or household, full or incomplete career, this is the fifth, sixth or seventh increase in minimum pensions under this legislature. You are right, they are, in a number of cases, the result of indexation or the translation of the interprofessional agreement or of decisions taken by the government. For the first time since August 2016, the minimum pension of the independent scheme is equal to the minimum pension of the employed schemes. I am particularly sensitive to the messages on the level of these pensions. Let's be very clear. Minimum pensions have increased significantly. For an isolated independent with a full career, it is more than 150 euros increase since the beginning of this legislature. But even if the minimum pensions have increased, they are still too low: 1,500 and a few euros to live on a daily basis remain too low in some situations. The important efforts that have been made must not therefore prevent us, with Daniel Bacquelaine, with all colleagues, with the parliamentary majority and, I hope, with all of Parliament, from continuing our actions so as to continue to value these minimum pensions. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that we are deciding on the seventh increase in self-employed pensions for the "isolated" and "complete" categories, and on the fifth increase for households, for example. That is the main decision we are making today. I wanted to bring this back to the centre of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u103	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u104	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2543/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2543/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u107	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u108	Thank you and give you the floor directly. You are currently the only speaker on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u109	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us implements the agreement of the social partners in the framework of the 2018 Interprofessional Agreement (IPA) on the link to well-being, allowing them to adapt the guaranteed income to the elderly, who is the predecessor of the Income Guarantee for the Elderly (GRAPA). One of the government's priorities is to raise minimum pensions as well as GRAPA, we have just mentioned. Support for the elderly has increased gradually over the course of two and a half years, and this bill will again increase the amounts by 0.9% to 1,083.27 euros and 722.18 euros, respectively, from 1 September 2017. This draft law implements the desire of the social partners to also increase the guaranteed income by 0.9%, which currently benefits 4,512 elderly people. The amount of GRAPA will also be increased by 0.9%, but this will be done through a royal decree. In this context, almost 100,000 people are affected. Ladies and gentlemen, we voted unanimously in committee. I hope it will be the same today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u110	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u111	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2493/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2493-3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u112	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u113	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Thiéry, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u114	Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall save money on everything I have already said in committee about this project on which my group will abstain. I would just say that, within a week, we would have been able to make a more determined decision because, even if the minister seemed to minimize things, this project would have an impact on the Princess Elizabeth polar station and the whole question is how far this impact will be. To answer this question, we lack one essential fact: the exact content of the agreement between Mrs Demir and the Polar Foundation. Hasard of the calendar, will say some, calculation premeditated for others, we will have access to this famous agreement only next week. If press articles have outlined them, we know that, in this particular case, the devil is hiding in the details. We are told that the state becomes 100% owner of the polar station but, for example, what about the future acquisitions made in the framework of the station, the vehicles, the heavy equipment required for shipments? Who will they belong to? To the Belgian State? To the Foundation? At the current Polar Secretariat? To the future AISBL? These are questions that we cannot answer today and which justify our abstention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u115	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium has often been a pioneer in many areas, and this was also the case in Antarctica. On board the ship Belgica, our compatriot, Adrien de Gerlache, led, at the end of the nineteenth century, the first scientific team in the world to spend an entire winter in Antarctica. This expedition, in which the Norwegian Amundsen, who would become the first man to reach the South Pole, brought back valuable scientific data that made it possible to better know the white continent. The return of Belgica to Antwerp sparked a wave of popular enthusiasm throughout the country. In 1957, Gaston de Gerlache will walk in the footsteps of his father by founding the King Baudouin base, which continued its scientific research and exploration activities until 1968. In 2009, after several years of absence, our country inaugurated a new scientific base: the Princess Elizabeth station, powered by renewable energy sources, making our country a forerunner in the field of polar bases. So we have a history and a topicality in this part of the world. It is essential that scientific missions be carried out within an appropriate legal framework. The bill before us updates, by replacing it, the Act of 7 April 2005 implementing the Protocol to the Antarctic Treaty on the Protection of the Environment. It fills gaps in response to situations that have arisen since 2005, in particular concerning activities carried out under Belgian jurisdiction. The bill provides the Minister of the Environment with the power to order and impose administrative sanctions against persons who do not comply with the conditions of the permit granted by the federal authority, as well as an alternative power to deal with a critical environmental situation in Antarctica. Finally, the project clarifies the legal status of goods used in Belgian missions to Antarctica, explaining that these goods will remain subject to Belgian law through a registration mechanism. These provisions will enable our country to comply with its international obligations under the Antarctic Treaty to which it was a signatory in 1959 and which it initiated the protocol. The impact of this bill is positive for the protection of the environment and biodiversity in Antarctica. It marks our determination to remain among the leading nations in the field of scientific research activities on the continent. In the same vein, we must welcome the recent agreement between the International Polar Foundation and the Belgian State to sustain research in Antarctica. This continent is known to be one of the privileged witnesses to the evolution of our planet. In the 1970s, there was a periodic decrease in the ozone layer. This is also where the origins of climate change and its impact on biodiversity are best studied. More than ever, this continent must remain a sanctuary dedicated to peace, scientific research and, more than anything else, the preservation of our planet. Anyway, there's got to be a white paradise. This bill contributes, and we will therefore vote with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u116	Mr President, if you will, I shall make a brief statement on this proposal. Minister Marghem knows that in committee, we talked a lot about the subject. Mr. Piedboeuf has just made a remarkable historical summary of Belgium's presence in Antarctica and pointed out that Belgium was a party to the treaty signed in Washington in 1959. Mr. Van Overtveldt is co-signatory to this text, particularly with Mr Reynders, and we even wondered why. I'll teach him if he's in doubt. We have discussed much of the link between this text and the future of the Princess Elizabeth Polar Station. In fact, in committee, we obtained the presence of the Secretary of State in charge of the scientific institutions. Indeed, beyond the interest of the Antarctic continent and the presence of Belgium as a party to the treaty, which Mr Piedboeuf had perfectly summarized, the future of the polar station Princess Elizabeth also needed to be addressed. I will not sum up here the many polemics that have fueled some of the debates, including in this House, on the future of this station. Since then, indeed, Mrs Demir, as she had more or less announced in committee, has reached an agreement. On Tuesday morning, Secretary of State Demir will be present to discuss the upcoming agreement. Mrs Marghem, you remember, we talked a lot about the penultimate or last article of your project, in which the Council of State had found that there was retroactivity. The stakes were obviously the future of the polar station, as Mr Senesael mentioned. But was his past concerned? On this point, the Council of State had violently challenged the retroactivity of the text and the fact that it is not normal to legislate when there are so many legal proceedings concerning the polar station. Colleagues, it must be understood that this was one of the most important elements. Is this bill trying to settle the ongoing disputes between the International Polar Foundation and the Belgian State in a definitive and unilateral manner? Mrs. Demir said she didn't like the wrong trials. I recognize that she kept her word. I'm saying it from the opposition benches, maybe it's not common. In a very short time, she resolved a problem that Ms. Sleurs had helped to generate with unilateral attitudes, ensuring that the situation of this polar station Princess Elisabeth had become untenable. So today we are "freed" and we will check next Tuesday the precise content of the agreement, which seems promising, between all parties, to the benefit of scientific research, fundamental on this white continent. The key issue was whether the text intended to resolve pending disputes in a diversionary or indirect manner. Since then, we have learned that the two parties, the State and the International Polar Foundation, have agreed to leave legal proceedings in abeyance. I think this is an important and very positive decision. Minister, there are still some specific questions on which I still find this text unsatisfactory. However, in the light of the developments in the retroactivity section, my negative vote in committee will turn into abstention. Why an abstention? If we read the report of the excellent colleague Damien Thiéry, we can see that the comments on the most surprising and "bad" texts came from the majority. Mr. Van Peteghem asked excellent questions about the legal soundness of a number of procedures. We ourselves have pointed out a number of imprecisions, which have forced Mr Thiéry to table, on behalf of the majority, an amendment to clarify an article. But beyond that, the text still presents a number of legal dissatisfactions. If we are not going to oppose the whole text, we will abstain from saying that there are still things to be improved, but we wanted, through this evolution of the vote, to show that, since then, it has been outside this text that positive things have happened. Next Tuesday, we will have the opportunity to hear from Secretary of State Zuhal Demir. And we hope that the white continent, which deserves it, will now have the opportunity to welcome scientists from Belgium, which is a party to the Antarctic Treaty. The phenomena of climate change that we know justify the fact that Belgium finds the opportunity to be a pioneer in a dossier essential for the future of the planet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u117	Mr President, I would also like to speak about this particular project, since it was initially discussed on 8 February and then on 27 June. However, in a few days or months, events have taken place, which may have changed the situation with regard to the reading and possible application of this text, which repeals the law of 7 April 2005, implementing in Belgian law the provisions of the Madrid Protocol. I would point out, however, that this protocol is a unique element, because, thanks to it, Antarctica is primarily reserved for scientific research and its environment is subject to enhanced protection. And the objective we are pursuing is to make Antarctica a natural reserve for peace and science. And I think researchers need serenity to be able to search for and develop their activities. Nevertheless, the text in question has a flagship measure and it is proposed to register in an ad hoc register the goods, i.e. "infrastructure and vehicles that are either constructed or placed in Antarctica as part of an activity that has been the subject of an environmental permit under the draft law." As a result of this registration, the property is subject to Belgian law and is deemed to be situated in Belgium. Thus, the State has legal means to impose its norms beyond its territory and in an area governed by international law. In view of these elements, our fear was that this project would be just a pretext to solve another problem. You know that a pretext in French means a bad reason. It was on this point that we were asking ourselves in committee. Given the timing and actions to be taken, there was a risk that this project would only be an opportunity to resolve the dispute with the Polar Foundation. What also makes the difference in the regime between the dossier analysed on 8 February and 27 June is that we had the opportunity to hear the explanations of the Secretary of State responsible for scientific policy and that she promised us an agreement in the Council of Ministers soon after the passage into committee. That's what happened. The Secretary of State agreed to come and inform us of this agreement next week. Let us give him the benefit of the doubt since the problems were previously judicial. When speaking to each other in court, this does not facilitate dialogue. It has begun the negotiation that we have always asked for, which is very important. However, from a legal point of view, the text is not a jewel, excuse the expression. Some measures, particularly in terms of sanctions, do not appear to me to be proportional to any infringements that might be discovered. All the more so since this text is in the context of the international agreement of the Madrid Treaty, which requires consultation and evaluation with other countries. In addition, there has been no impact assessment and no opinion of stakeholders in the field, the first involved. However, since the atmosphere has become less cold again, I suggest that you pay more attention to this situation. Given the evolution of events and the start of negotiations, we will change our position and abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the developments in the debate, as indicated by the Members who spoke on the opposition bench. The presentation of this law, its history and its merits were impeccably made by the MP, Benoît Piedboeuf. I am simply surprised that, in order to justify his abstention, one of the opposition colleagues is hiding behind a member of the majority who, moreover, did indeed ask very relevant legal questions to which he was answered, and probably answered well enough so that he is not there today to defend again the points he had raised during the debate in committee. Nevertheless, I record that this file is slowly coming to an end. This law will enable Belgium to manage at best, through registration, all the goods which will be placed on this polar station during the shipments which will be authorised by the Environment DG and, precisely, to enable greater protection of the environment under unquestionable legal conditions. I therefore thank colleagues for the work they have done and I am confident that the end of the story will be calmly set at the committee to be held next Tuesday, where my colleague, Secretary of State Demir, will explain the ins and outs of the transaction between the Belgian State and the Polar Foundation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u119	Mr President, after the intervention of various members of the opposition and the positive attitude, I thought the minister was going to get involved on the friendly side. Obviously, she's having a hard time changing records. After the ice or glacial period recalled by the cdH colleague, we had already understood that this was not going to end with a kiss. Clearly, the minister has nothing to do with the evolution of our vote. It is not because of her or because of her that our vote has changed. Make her feel better! That's because Mrs. Demir, she, did the job. I just wanted to make it clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u120	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u121	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2276/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2276/5) The draft law has 28 articles. The bill has 28 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u122	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u123	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Goedele Uyttersprot, Sophie De Wit, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Sarah Smeyers, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u124	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Becq, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the figures do not lie. Every day, on average, seven complaints are registered for family abandonment or for non-payment of maintenance contributions. Too many maintenance agents do not pay the maintenance contributions and do everything possible to avoid them. Although the current legislation already provides for a number of civil law options, as well as a number of alternative penalties, to encourage creditors to pay, we note that little or no action is being taken on them. Firstly, parents must realise that they are responsible for the maintenance of their children. In addition, it is important to inform creditors and taxpayers of the legal possibilities they have at their disposal. For example, since 2010, it has been possible to apply to the court for authorisation to receive maintenance contributions due. However, this possibility is far too little known to date. This bill provides that any judgment establishing the maintenance contribution will include a clause explaining in human language what the creditor can do when the creditor does not pay the maintenance. This means, more specifically, that the court is asked to authorise the maintenance contribution to be automatically and directly withheld from the creditor's income. I am therefore pleased that the proposal was adopted unanimously in committee, across the boundaries of majority and opposition, for which I am grateful. It is clear that it is important to recognise that the creditor is warned that he or she must comply with his or her obligation, but also that information is provided to the creditor about his or her non-payment options.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u126	Mr President, our colleague refers to the unanimity of the vote in committee. It would not have been wise not to support this proposal. However, the Court merely asks a judge who makes a decision on alimony to indicate in his judgment the article of the Code which provides for the delegation of sums. It would be more useful to provide for the immediate implementation of the delegation of sums when there is a sentence of maintenance and if the debtor enters into the conditions of non-payment. That would be a lot more interesting. While this legislation merely asks the judge to recall the existence of an article of the Civil Code in his judgement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u127	Mr President, I wanted to thank our colleague for his proposal, which has limited merit, as Mr Brotcorn has explained. It does not make it possible to recover or insure payment of amounts due in connection with maintenance claims, but it ensures that there is information and reminder of the rule vis-à-vis the person who has to pay these claims. This is a real problem, which will require us to find a way to ensure that this payment is made either spontaneously by the debtor or through a system that allows this payment in the event of the debtor's default. We will deal with this in more detail when we have the latest report on the operation of the Maintenance Receivables Service (SECAL), which will cover several consecutive years. This proposal has a more theoretical than practical scope in terms of efficiency, but it was important to underline and recall it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u128	Mr President, I would like to make a brief statement in order to express our support for the proposal that we have also co-signed. It is important, in our view, that in judgments in which maintenance contributions are granted, information will also be given on the possibility of a wage delegation, after we have found the mandatory information on the existence of the DAVO in such judgments for several years now. It is our belief that maintenance money should initially be paid by the creditor and that only after all the possibilities, such as the salary delegation, have been exhausted, can the DAVO be taken to the DAVO and thus the maintenance money is paid with tax money. We are therefore giving all our support to the legislative proposal that is responding to the maintenance obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u129	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u130	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2472/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2472/4) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u131	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u132	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Carina Van Cauter, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u133	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u134	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to the written report as necessary. However, I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise the importance of this draft law. The draft law seeks to combat fraudulent recognition. First of all, I would like to thank both Cabinets and, in particular, Minister Geens and Secretary of State Theo Francken for this work. Unfortunately, after the sham marriages and the bogus cohabitation, we are faced with a new method of fraudulently obtaining a right of residence in Belgium. The increased attention that has been given to marriages of convenience for some time has made it more difficult to obtain a right of residence by this means. So one had to look for another way. Unfortunately, this has been very inventive and nothing is avoided. Indeed, fraudulent recognition exploits and even exploits the most vulnerable in our society. In doing so, we are going to recognise Belgian children in order to obtain that coveted right of residence. There are cases where one person recognises up to 18 children. It goes so far that children are conceived by a Belgian mother solely for the purpose of obtaining Belgian nationality. The children are left with a father with whom they have no socio-affective bond, a father who will never be part of their lives. In order to prevent such distressing situations, this draft law takes a number of measures. In this way it will no longer be possible to declare recognition in any municipality. A certain bond will be necessary. For example, think of the birthplace of the child, the residence of the connoisseur and the like. Also, recognition with the notary will no longer be possible. In order to prevent fraudulent recognition, it will now also be possible to conduct a long-term and thorough investigation into the possession of state, which is the socio-effective link between the third-country parent and the Belgian child. The conditions for recognition are now very minimal. For our group, it is particularly important that this investigation, for which a number of months are available for civil status, be communicated to the Foreign Affairs Office, which will thus be informed of fraudulent recognition, refusal of recognition and annulment, so that the right of residence, in this context family reunification, can be refused and the right of residence withdrawn. The role of the Public Prosecutor in these proceedings is strengthened and clarified. A right of appeal is granted to be able to declare the annulment, at the same time as the conviction for fraudulent recognition. This saves the Belgian State an additional procedure. Fraudulent recognition will be punishable, as is currently the case in the case of marriage of convenience. As always, we must, of course, first look at the importance of the child. In this case, the question arises as to whether the child benefits from a rapid recognition which is subsequently found to be fraudulent. We do not think so, let us be clear. It is better that a thorough investigation is carried out into the socio-affective band, just to make sure that the child is not saddled with a parent who is not in se, who will never be and who is in fact a pretend father. Finally, there is also a question of amending the rules on family reunification. The need for the socio-effective relationship between parent and child must be absolutely clarified, including in the foreign law. I therefore call on the government, and in particular Secretary of State Francken, to do so. That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA, presumably as expected, will be happy to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem with this proposal for the simple reason that this text allows, mainly for the registrar, to refuse an act of recognition and criminalizes fraudulent recognition. The basic problem of this text is that it is contrary to the rights of the child, which the Council of State recalled in its opinion. I spare you the legal details, Minister, since we all know them. The Council of State is very clear, since by not providing for the consideration of the interests of the child in legal provisions at any time, the Constitution and the Convention on the Rights of the Child are violated. It is also known that consideration of the best interests of the child is a principle of the fundamental right recognized by the Convention to all children. Therefore, every child has the right to be registered. I know that, at the request of the Attorney General, it is applied, by analogy, to marriages of convenience and legal cohabitation, but recognition with a view to establishing a bond of filiation is a different situation. The non-consecration of a marriage cannot be compared with the absence of a bond of filiation between a child and a father. These situations are different, more simply because they will lead to different consequences, resulting from a refusal by the registrar. These consequences are not anodizing to the child. This refusal can have a very serious and serious impact on the child who will then be unprotected. I must remind you again, the bond of filiation opens up important rights for the child and, in particular, the opening of a right to a maintenance contribution, to a succession, etc. This is not limited to the biological link. As far as the procedure itself is concerned, an error of assessment by the registrar, which cannot be excluded, can also cause serious and certain damage to the child, who has no legal status or legal identity. The power granted to the registrar therefore raises questions when it comes to recognition to establish filiation. Moreover, the text before us does not contain any legal protection or guarantee sufficient to channel the power of the aforementioned officer, which is total, since he may directly refuse to act on the recognition and he is absolutely not obliged to seek the opinion of the King's prosecutor since it is a mere faculty left to him. In addition, fraudulent recognition raises questions to the extent that it affects the child who has potentially requested nothing. Let us be clear that it is not acceptable for a child to be used for the purpose of obtaining a right of residence. Measures must of course exist to combat this type of act or to obtain benefits in terms of residence. But let us take the example of a child who has been fraudulently recognized by a Belgian who, by force of things, has obtained advantages in the matter of the right of residence. While it is logical that fraud has consequences for the persons who have established this system, the cancellation of the bond of filiation has the effect of penalizing another person, namely the child who, for his part, has not committed any illegal act. If the child is still a minor, he or she may lose his or her nationality. How, then, can we imagine that this act of annulment can be taken in the interests of the child? This is a problem that I wanted to raise. The project also intends to address the case where a child has been designed for the purpose of obtaining a residence permit. In this case, it is possible to refuse or cancel recognition on the sole ground that it is a recognition which has been made for the purpose of residence, even though the applicant for parental care would provide proof of his biological filiation. Here, the project goes far too far. Indeed, even in the case of a biological child, recognition may be refused. Minister, I challenge the registrar, the king's attorney or the judge to prove that a child was conceived solely for the purpose of obtaining Belgian nationality. It will have to distinguish the motives and intentions of the authors by focusing solely on illegal stay – how can this not result in discrimination in this case? – and carry out the analysis a contrario. In addition to these grievances, there is also the fact that no means of redress have been provided. This is really a fundamental criticism of the project. While it is possible to institute a paternity search procedure, it is not an appeal that amends the decision of the registrar. It's not his object, as his name indicates. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, this procedure suddenly serves as an appeal. This is not an effective remedy in itself. This is a huge problem, since paternity proceedings are different, heavier and subject to different and stricter conditions than if the officer's decision had been reformed by a formal court. Between the refusal of the registrar and the intervention of a judgement, the child is without status and legal protection. Mr Minister, removing the remedies is in the air of time, I have heard it very often, in the course of your successive "pots-porris". Perhaps still for reasons of economy, a remedy is completely removed. But in the matter of complacency marriage, there is indeed a remedy. You wanted to apply, by analogy, what was being done for marriages of convenience, but you simply removed a remedy. This difference does not find any logical explanation. In this case, it is no longer the Constitution that is violated, but – as the Council of State notes – the European Convention on the Rights of the Child, which guarantees in its articles 6 and 8 access to an effective court and respect for privacy. [[Brouhahaha]] Colleagues, I won't be long. If you are not interested in the subject, the drink is open! Finally, with regard to the amendments to the Consular Code, and while consular posts are faced with such problems, one may wonder why the Civil Code and the Consular Code are being amended, rather than migration laws. The Code of Private International Law also regulates the matter by providing for the absence of recognition of such acts if they are contrary to public policy or if they are obtained by violating the law. Therefore, the added value of these changes appears to be severely limited. I wonder if this will have any consequences for Belgians living abroad. As such, I do not know if they have been consulted. That's a question I'm asking myself. In addition, I would point out that no statistics could be provided. We are not aware of any figures that could make us perceive the real scope and usefulness of this law. On the other hand, we know that the rights of the child have not been respected. In conclusion, the child is at the heart of the bill on fraudulent recognition, but his rights are not mentioned at any time. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that my group will abstain from voting on this text, as it contravenes the Constitution, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and, lastly, the European Convention on Human Rights, since no recourse is foreseen. So that's a lot!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a text supported by our group, which is the least we can say. We have been working with Parliament for a long time to limit fraud in obtaining right of residence. We have done so in the context of the law on family reunification and the national legislation on false recognition and marriages. Nevertheless, we have found that children are being used in fraudulently obtaining right of residence, which is very unfortunate and regrettable and must be avoided at all costs. That is why we have already taken an initiative along these lines in the previous legislature. We were therefore very pleased that the government, moreover, was also included in the coalition agreement, which laid down and further developed guidelines. We would like to support them. It is about false recognition, for the benefit of women or men who want to fraudulently acquire residence in the territory, without any socio-effective relationship with the child they wish to recognise. It is very important that the phenomenon is combated, for the sake of the child's interests alone. A child is obviously entitled to a daddy, to fatherhood, but fraudulent recognition will in all cases stand in the way of real fatherhood. That is exactly what we want to avoid with this draft. In addition, this draft will restrict the fraudulent acquisition of right of residence. In the past, too. It was possible to act reactively, but it was then necessary to call on articles relating to public policy. It is very beneficial to be able to act proactively now, and the role of the civil servant is very important there. This means that, if there are suspicions following a thorough investigation, recognition will not be allowed. Anyone who finds that there is an erroneous suspicion of fraud can still rightly find the way to the court to have the line of origin established. reactive action should also be possible. That makes a lot of sense. The criminalisation is based on what was introduced for a bogus recognition and a sham marriage. In addition, the court will be able to annul the recognition found to be fraudulent and thus also to nullify the right of residence wrongly lodged. It is a further step on the issue of the right of residence acquired fraudulently. That's important. Anyone who has the right to stay on our territory must be able to obtain that right quickly and efficiently. Where paternity must be established, it must also be possible to do so, even if there is only an affective bond. However, where fraud is involved, preventive and reactive action must be taken. That is why we support the present draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u137	Mr President, I would like briefly to thank both ministers, Minister Geens and Secretary of State Francken. They have implemented the coalition agreement. It was very important for us to include in the coalition agreement that, in addition to the fight we have waged against marriages of convenience and cohabitation, against which we had already taken measures in the past, we are tackling other forms of fraud which are simply intended to obtain a residence permit and where victims are even made children in this case. We have dealt with the sham weddings in the past. In the meantime, we find that people have found the way to obtain a residence permit through the recognition of a child, whether organic or not. For the sake of clarity, a child can be perfectly recognised even if it is not his or her biologically. If there's a real connection, there's got to be. Of course, people have a right to family reunification. We don't question that. However, when such recognition occurs, not because there is a connection but purely for the purpose of obtaining a residence document, children are instrumentalised. In this case children are made of utensils, they are used and abused and then abandoned. That is what we want to do. That is why I am very pleased that the situation is now being addressed. There'll be more checks. The recognition can no longer simply be recorded with a notary, as is still possible today. From now on, it will always have to pass through a civil servant. On that service it can be verified whether there is an effective bond. If there is no problem, the child will be able to be recognised and parents will be able to obtain a residence permit. If there is a problem and there are suspicions of false recognition, a further investigation will follow. It is also positive that the problem is not only dealt with by the courts, but that those who are guilty of false recognition are also prosecuted. The criminal court may also impose penalties and penalties for false recognition similar to those already imposed and penalties for marriages of convenience. Depending on whether or not the use of coercion and the question of whether money is involved, the fine may sometimes be paid for false recognition. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, most partners are also victims of such false recognition. Sometimes someone offers a woman with a child to recognise that child as theirs and the women concerned go in good faith, while the partner only has the residence permit in mind. Often, the mother whose child is recognised will, therefore, unwittingly participate in such a crime. Luckily, it's not the intention to sanction the victims. However, we want to raise awareness. In short, I would like to congratulate the government on this draft law, which tackles this form of abuse, so that we can avoid victims in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that making paper babies is immoral, unworthy, inadmissible and illegal. The use of a child to obtain the right of residence should not be possible. It was therefore necessary to find a solution to combat this phenomenon, which is what the government proposes. Ecolo and Groen have six main comments and suggestions to make to the government. Mr. Minister of Justice, the first is that in the debates we had in committee, we talked a lot about the interests of the child following the very critical opinion of the Council of State. I understand that you consider that the interests of the child will in any case be safeguarded to the extent that the courts retain their control over the assessment and protection of the interests of the child. You have even gone so far as to say that this verification and protection mission is solely within the jurisdiction of the judge and not of the registrar. However, the Civil Code provides for other methods of establishing filiation outside the strictly judicial system, and recognitions are clearly part of it. It is therefore rather disproportionate for us to consider that the interests of the child should only be taken into account by the court. In Ecolo-Groen's view, both the registrar, to whom the declaration of recognition is submitted, and the prosecutor's office, to whom a mission would be entrusted to investigate the intentions of the authors in question, must act as guarantors throughout the proceedings of the interests of the child and ensure that the child is taken into account in every decision that these interlocutors will take. Minister, you indicated that the child would be validly represented in judicial, civil and criminal proceedings and that his or her best interests would therefore be safeguarded. But what happens from the time the parents appear before the registrar and the entire investigation procedure is carried out at the prosecutor's office, which can lead to the refusal of the establishment of filiation? Throughout the process, the child is not represented. His best interests are not represented or taken into account. That is why the Council of State has very clearly considered that, for him, this bill could be contrary to Article 22bis of the Constitution, which I will quote: "In any decision that concerns him – thus including a decision of the registrar and including the prosecutor's investigation – the interests of the child are given primary consideration." I insist on the word "primordial". Then, as Mrs Özen said, there is article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which I quote: "In all decisions concerning children – including, therefore, the decisions of the registrar – whether they are made by public or private social welfare institutions, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child must be a primary consideration." I repeat, "All decisions." So not only the court decisions, the decisions of the administration as well and, more importantly, the ministers, when it is up to these administrations to deprive a child of an identity. Furthermore, article 7 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child provides, I quote: "The child is registered immediately after birth and, from that birth, has the right to a name, the right to acquire a nationality and, to the extent possible, the right to know and be cared for by his or her parents." This draft could prevent the implementation of this international provision, which is, I repeat, binding. Denying the establishment of a filiation could result in the child not having the name of his or her father or mother, not having their nationality and not being raised by either parent. My second point concerns proportionality. You write it in the explanatory memorandum, you designed this project by drawing it, by analogy, on the procedure of marriage or legal cohabitation known as complacency. As Mrs Özen said, there is a big difference between marriages and legal cohabitations of convenience and refusal to establish filiation, because the procedure would be fraudulent. The consequences are fundamentally different between the refusal to establish a matrimonial bond and the refusal to establish a recognition of filiation. In one case, there is a human being whose life is at stake, but not in the other. The consequence for refusing marriage or legal cohabitation is for those who want to fraud. The consequence for a refusal of filiation affects both parents and the child, who did not ask for it. One can conceive, for a marriage, that it is necessary to wait six months to be allowed to marry. For filiation, impacts can be irreparable – especially in the case of administrative errors. Throughout the analysis of the file, the child will not bear the father's name. It may be, in the event that it is an administrative error, an infringement of his identity and filiation. This will have a trace in the vital records and this may have a consequence for the entire life of the child. I repeat because I want to be clear about this. It is obviously unacceptable to use filiation to obtain a right of residence and it is normal to punish a false parent who would use it. What I would like to stress here, Mr Secretary of State, is rarely agreed, is that if it is of course a question of being able to punish and track people who use filiation, and thus the life of the child, so that they can stay in the territory. The child must not be the victim. In the event that the child is refused filiation, he or she may be denied a residence permit or the right to request it with, if necessary, a break in contact with his or her parents, whether true or false. This can have an impact on the child's emotional ties and personality. We know how important it is at birth. The draft refers to fraudulent recognition, whereas for marriages or legal cohabitations, the expression "of convenience" is used. Words make sense. Here too. In the long term, fraud, when referred to as fraud, has an impact on any subsequent application for residence, even for another reason, on the basis of the general criterion of the exception of public order. In practice as in theory, through the application of the law, this can have consequences for the child himself. Let us even talk about children born and who are also victims of proven fraud. This is even more true in the case of a simple suspicion of fraud. Depriving a child of filiation is a very important, very serious administrative act. There I have a first question, Mr. Minister of Justice. I've been looking into cases where we've refused a sonage. There is the Mennesson judgment of the European Court of Human Rights on a completely different subject, but a subject nevertheless linked to the question of filiation, namely the case of a French male homosexual couple who had contracted – which is illegal in France – a pregnancy for others. A child was born of this gestation for others. These persons were convicted because pregnancy for others is prohibited in the French Penal Code. However, these two persons went to the European Court of Human Rights to seek redress. Why? Because the French State had refused the establishment of filiation. And the European Court of Justice condemned France, which had to grant filiation to the child who had been born out of an illegal process. Why? In the best interests of the child who has the right to have parents. Mr Minister, do you not fear that the European Court of Human Rights may break this law or, in any case, condemn Belgium on the grounds that it prevents the granting of the filiation of future children who, although born under illegal conditions, do not see their best interests guaranteed by law? Finally, regardless of the seriousness of the criminal fault committed by the parents, what must take precedence is the interests of the child. It is logical that the fraud has consequences for the persons who deliberately committed it, namely the parents, but not for a person who did not commit it and who suffered it, i.e., the child. This is my third point. The latter concerns a point which has gone rather unnoticed during the debates in committee. From the moment the bill is passed, notaries will be prohibited from making a recognition of paternity in their study. Minister, have notaries been consulted at any time? I ask you this question because sometimes fathers who are being held in a closed centre, who are therefore in the process of repatriation, have not finalized the administrative procedures necessary for the recognition of their child. Why? Because they are in an illegal situation and were afraid to go to the communal administration to recognize their child because they are undocumented or because a document to be issued by the country of origin or the embassy of that country was missing. And, for a reason x or y, these people find themselves in a closed center. In some cases, these persons who are to be sent back to their country of origin call on a notary in a closed centre to act on the relationship of filiation between them and their child. It is not because a person is in a closed centre that he or she is not entitled to a real family life. So, concretely, with the disappearance of the possibility of recognition of filiation by notaries, will this practice, which seems quite common, disappear? I am talking about the ability of a notary to recognize this right to filiation from a person in a closed centre. My fourth point concerns the clues that will be used by the registrar, and then, in the eventual court, to rule on a possible fraudulent recognition. For marriages and cohabitation of convenience, there is a list of indices. This was provided for in a circular to draw the attention of registrars to the circumstances that may shape the belief that the relationship is "only and clearly intended for the purpose of obtaining a residence permit". In this case, it is a circular. For fraudulent recognitions of filiation, do you plan a circular of the same type, or a royal decree? I would prefer a royal decree, which is safer or even a law, but it is no longer possible. My fifth point concerns prenatal recognition. The explanatory statement of the law which provided for prenatal recognition – thus, another law called the Prenatal Recognition Act without delay – stressed the need to provide for this mechanism in the name of the emotional ties and early establishment of the child's personality from birth. Today's bill may have the effect of making it difficult, if not impossible, to obtain prenatal recognition, if one of the parents is a foreigner, for so-called mixed couples. This would mean imposing an prenatal DNA test, particularly intrusive for women and not devoid of health risks, since it should be performed in utero. Minister, how will prenatal recognition take place for persons in the case of mixed Belgian and foreign couples? Could the Public Prosecutor's Office request prenatal DNA testing? I have another comment about the authority of the res judicata. If filiation is deemed fraudulent by a judge, it is for ever, even if in the meantime new elements are involved. For example, recognition is found to be fraudulent, but subsequently it is found that persons who have been found to be fraudulently related have a real family life as evidenced by the birth of a second child. In the present state of the case law, it would not be possible to reverse the decision of fraudulent filiation. Has the bill provided for a mechanism that would allow it to do so? In other words, once a judge has found filiation to be fraudulent, is it forever? I would like to put one final question to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. For marriages and legal cohabitation of convenience, the circular of 17 September 2013 provides for a suspension of the execution of the order to leave the territory from the receipt of the receipt of the final decision. Have you worked by analogy in this area? Will the municipalities give the necessary time and the possibility for people to bring with them all the documents necessary to obtain the acknowledgement of receipt? What guarantees can one have that between the moment of the decision being taken and that of the delivery of all documents by the citizen, the Office of Foreigners will not issue an order to arrest persons at their home which, in the meantime, is known since a procedure is under way. Today, it is known – as proof of this – that some communes are denouncing their illegality at the Foreign Office in an article published in the newspaper La Meuse on 29 May 2017. Ongoing procedures should not be an opportunity for the Office of Foreigners to impose and launch raids to arrest persons at their permanently known home. Mr. Minister of Justice, Mr. Van Hecke that I myself intervened in committee. We recognize the need for legislation. My remarks are fundamental and call for another mechanism. I know, however, that civil registrars, in particular the 19 civil registrars of the Brussels Region, are seeking legislation to avoid these fraudulent recognitions of paternity. We don't have the solution ourselves. That is why, even if we have some key comments and questions that we are asking you again today, we will not vote, but we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u139	Mr President, first of all, I apologize to you because I was not present in committee and it is still a bit unpleasant to discuss a text that has already been discussed in committee. With some of our colleagues, we were at another place a few kilometres from here, in a palace in Laeken. Like that, you know everything. That's the problem of cumulation! It was very interesting. That being said, the text proposed to us, Ministers, is a text that is very useful and which, I believe, comes at its time. There is nothing worse than seeing children, who have asked nothing, being the instruments for pursuing illegal, illegitimate and, where appropriate, fraudulent objectives. The use of such tools by children who have not asked for anything is obviously unacceptable. It is also known that civil registrars, mainly those in the municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region, are seeking legislation to combat these sometimes organised frauds. Ministers, without taking back the substance of the matter, the CDH, as a political group, agrees with the measures you are proposing. Nevertheless, we will not be able to complete the reasoning, and we will abstain at the time of the vote because of what the Council of State tells us about the best interests of the child. We understand that fraudsters must be punished, but by having that objective, we cannot remove another criterion, which is fundamental in the eyes of the Constitution and other supranational laws which establish the interests of the child as a necessity and a priority. The complaint of the Council of State is that, when the conditions of article 330/1 are met, the recognition of the child is cancelled without any other form of trial, without at the same time analysing the interests of the child. It is not impossible to ask for both options to be considered and for the examination of recognition, which may be suspected of being fraudulent, to be carried out from the angle of fraud but also taking into account the interests of the child. And that's what the Council of State asked you to do. We are accustomed to the opinion of the Council of State which suggests that it is not quite certain from a legal point of view, but that it may be possible... Sometimes the Council of State declares that the question that is being asked is purely political and that it is up to the legislator to decide. It is rarely as clear as in this opinion. This follows in two and a half lines: "By refusing to take into account the best interests of the child, the legislator infringes Article 22bis of the Constitution and Article 3, § 1 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child." This, we believe, obliges us to take into account the opinion of the Council of State if we are to move towards the laudable objectives that are being pursued. That is why, having not had the opportunity to do so in committee, I will, at today's plenary meeting, table an almost identical amendment to Rules 9, 10 and 11 requesting that, in each situation, the interests of the child be taken into account as a matter of priority when considering the particular circumstances of the case. In doing so, we meet with a very clear opinion of the Council of State and the objectives of the authors of the bill and, incidentally, it would allow my group to vote with you. I hope that the majority will be able to accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a child has a fundamental right to be given primary consideration in all decisions affecting him. The first person concerned in the context of recognition is obviously the child, since this decision will have consequences for the rest of his life. The State Council has established that this bill does not respect this principle of the best interests of the child, which is contrary to both the Constitution and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Because the purpose of this bill is to prevent parents from recognizing their child, despite the biological link that unites them, when the suspected purpose of recognition would be a residence benefit. In doing so, the bill hinders every child's right to know and be raised by his or her parents to the extent possible. It denies an existing biological reality between a child and his or her father and will often make impossible any father-child relationship that might have existed for the future, even if it is not recognized at the time of recognition. The only criterion proposed by law is whether the sole purpose of recognition is an advantage in the matter of residence. The law does not provide at any time for the best interests of the child to be taken into account in the decision of the registrar whether or not to grant recognition. Finally, it is extremely vague and contains no other clarification of cases where recognition may be refused only "where it is apparent from a combination of circumstances that the intention of the recognised person is clearly intended only to obtain an advantage in the matter of residence". What are these circumstances? How do I define this "manifestly"? He is for the time being left to the discretion of the registrar and then the prosecutor or judge. This vagueness could lead to abuse of the law with serious consequences for any young child. It is also likely to significantly increase the number of proceedings, while our judicial system is already saturated, with the costs of justice and lawyers that this entails for both the litigants and the community. That is why we are opposed to this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u141	Mr President, I listened to my colleagues with great interest. I have retained some arguments that lead me to an even more nuanced appreciation of the bill in question. We are all aware of the need to change our legislation to deal with this scandalous phenomenon, which several associations are denouncing. In particular, I am thinking of the Imprisoned Hearts Association, which often intervenes alongside mothers who have been instrumentalised - do not hide it - by unscrupulous characters. But I am not sure, as many of the previous speakers have pointed out, that the legal path chosen is the one that offers the most guarantees and that offers the best response to this worrying phenomenon, rightly denounced by the citizens of the 19 Brussels communes, who called for this a little more than a year ago. I am not sure that the legislation proposed to us will not be subject to censorship by the Constitutional Court, or in any case to challenges before the courts, including at the highest level, to the European Court of Human Rights, as it is true that, as has been said, the sanction of non-recognition of one of the parents will be at the expense of the interests of the child. First of all, I wonder why leave such a power of discretion exorbitant, even if there is the opinion of the public prosecutor, to the registrar. There will be variations in the interpretation or assessment of the legal criteria, which are in fact very little precise, with as many interpretations as there are civil registration officers in our country. It is not even certain that the prosecution services aim to standardize their criteria, although it is hoped that there will be circulars from the College of King's Prosecutors. However, each case will be unique and there will not necessarily be very uniform case law and there will sometimes be pressure from local public opinion on civil registration officers who are more likely to make certain decisions than others or, conversely, some will be more reluctant to refuse recognition. So I do not think it is happy that when it comes to human rights, it is an administrative authority that has such a relatively discretionary, if not arbitrary, discretion. I believe that it is the courts that should ultimately have the real discretion. I always have an intellectual and legal reservation about the fact that an administrative authority is given such power that determines the legal consequences of the child's rights vis-à-vis his or her parents and, possibly, a biological father or mother. I do not think he is happy that procedures and sanctions have not been legally differentiated according to whether the biological link is established or not. In short, one can go so far as to deny a parent's biological filiation. I believe that this is an excessive arbitrary choice, contrary to international conventions, because the best interests of the child are not only to recognize rights but also to impose obligations on parents. Even if the father – because he is often a father – has resorted to the scheme of having a relationship with a woman to give himself a personal advantage, including a right of residence, it cannot be inferred that he no longer has an obligation towards the child he has conceived with that woman by denying any possibility of recognition. In short, you go so far as to deny the obligations that are the responsibility of the father, even if the intention was fraudulent. Not only do you sanction him by non-recognition, but you finally exempt him from his obligations towards the child! In my view, the real sanction would be to compel him to fulfil certain obligations towards the child, a fortiori if biological filiation is established. Another thing would be a purely fraudulent and unfounded recognition, which is intended only to receive a residence permit in the country. In this respect, I wonder why a solution which seems to me quite obvious and which would have been to say, in case of doubt at the time of the application for recognition: "The registrar may suspend if there are serious indications." Then, only one legal way would open up to parents who want to obtain recognition: to apply to the courts to have the biological link established, that is to say, his fatherhood or motherhood. If it is, one cannot, of course, deny filiation, under the penalty of ignoring several international commitments of the Belgian State. That is why I am somewhat surprised that a procedure is being set up that gives such discretion and leaves such uncertainty so that it will be a source of dispute. It would have been preferable to place the burden of proof on the applicant for recognition by the obligation to introduce legal proceedings. It seems to me that this would have been more certain in terms of legal certainty and more binding for those who try to fraud. That is why I believe that we cannot adhere to the legal arrangements that you are proposing; to the political objective, yes, because this scandal must be brought to an end. However, I think you are going to create more disputes and uncertainties for a less legal effect than if you had opted for more secure legal channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u142	Mr President, we all share the objective and we have had a very broad discussion in the Committee on Justice. A few brief answers will suffice. They are also in line with those I gave during the debate in committee. First, on this important issue of the interests of the child, it is clear that we have taken seriously the criticism of the Council of State in this regard. At the same time, I do not understand how it can be said that there is not all the means of law to assert this interest of the child before the judge, after, if necessary, a decision of negative recognition, therefore a refusal of recognition by the registrar. Indeed, the person who declares the child has the right to appeal to the family court. If it is a third party in relation to the person who declares the birth or who declares the recognition, there is a means of asserting these rights in the ordinary proceedings before the civil court. Even for the child, from the age of twelve, this possibility exists. I would like to point out, in relation to what has been said, that with regard to the duties that may have been carried out, for example, by a biological parent whose judge or civil registrar has said that he cannot claim to be a father, since he does not have emotional ties or seeks fraudulent recognition, even then, Article 336 of the Civil Code explicitly provides that the biological child may exercise his right to maintenance by the father in this case, as is the case with any child. Therefore, it is not true that the duties of a father, for example in relation to the maintenance of the child, cannot be invoked by the child in question. In my view, the interests of the child are indeed recognized, to use a word that is important in this context, by the bill. I also believe that I have read in the committee a remarkable decision of the Hainaut Court of First Instance, Charleroi Division, dated 11 May 2016, which makes it very clear that biological filiation is no longer sufficient for recognition. This is a considerable step forward for our right. I read that if one or more criminal convictions or the fact of being in an illegal stay cannot deprive a father of asserting his rights, it must be noted that the situation of the gentleman, as described and uncontested, is profoundly damaging for the child, whose fatherhood cannot give any added value in his daily life to be built. On the contrary, the establishment of paternal filiation appears in the balance of interests of the child as a serious problem for its development because of the various parameters mentioned above. I also believe that the fact that the prosecutor will give notice, in any event, and that in most cases the civil servant or the registrar will be inclined to follow this advice, may be a legal guarantee in relation to certain fears that have been raised by some colleagues. As regards the representation of the child before the judge, I have clearly responded in the committee. In principle, it is the legal representative and, in case of opposition of interests, the child will be represented by an ad hoc guardian appointed by the president of the court, at the request of any interested person or the king's prosecutor. As for the question whether a decision in relation to fraudulent recognition, entered into force of things judged, is at all costs definitive, the answer is no. The child himself can still, at the age required by law – from the age of 12 – assert his rights in order to force, if necessary, further recognition of these maintenance rights within the meaning of article 336 of the Civil Code. A circular is prepared by my administration and the association of civil registrars' officers, a highly successful association that is very concerned with the problem. I would add that prenatal recognition remains perfectly possible. There is no fear to have about it. That, Mr President, is the few answers I wanted to give to the questions asked by our parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u143	Mr President, a great deal has already been said by my colleague. I think it is important to repeat that it is essential that a biological bond cannot suffice. More and more often we see that there is a biological bond, DNA-wise. That socio-effective relationship is just the element by which one can prove whether or not it is a fake recognition. If it is purely biological, a whole number of false recognitions will just not be grasped. That's the new phenomenon. We have first made the marriages of convenience criminal. Then we've made the sham living a criminal offence. We now see a lot of false recognition coming towards us. That is often because one pays to a Belgian mother to father that child. For example, there is a Belgian who has recognized 18 children of foreign origin. In that sense it is very important that it is not limited to just the biological bond. Mr Hellings, I come to your question: do we intend to give a new instruction on orders to leave the territory? If an order to leave the territory is delivered or an order is under way and there is an investigation into false recognition, then it seems logical to me that there will be no repatriation as long as that investigation is under way. I must continue to discuss with my services how best to stop it. What we will not do is to point out with the child of a Belgian woman that Belgian child, in which there is doubt about the intentions of recognition, is to have a child. We certainly won't. It seems logical to me that as long as the investigation is ongoing and it has not been proven that it is a false recognition, the status of the person concerned is that he has the right of residence, that he is in any case not expelled. That seems to me to be a very logical question, and I will take it further with Mr Roosemont.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u144	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for having answered my question as clearly as possible. We will ask him the question next Monday, as we will visit the Agency with him. Mr. Minister of Justice, I asked you a question about the circular that defines the clues. Are you going to take a new circular or are you going to take a royal decree? On the other hand, I thank you for answering my question about the authority of res judicata. As far as prenatal recognition is concerned, will it involve an intrauterine DNA test, a medical examination that is particularly intrusive and potentially dangerous to women's health? How are we going to know the biological link? How will prenatal recognition be performed without going through this DNA test?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u145	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u146	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2529/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2529/4) The draft law has 21 articles. The bill has 21 clauses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u147	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u148	Reserved: the vote on amendments and Rules 9 to 11. Held: the vote on the amendments and Rules 9 to 11. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 8 and 12 to 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip179x.u149	****** The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 13 July 2017 at 7.30 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 13 July 2017 at 7.30 p.m.
