ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u1	Good morning, Madam Minister. This issue has, of course, been on the agenda for some time. In the meantime, we had a National Climate Commission and the problem has already been addressed. Nevertheless, I am continuing the discussion we have had. I am not teaching you anything: the United States came out of the Paris Climate Agreement on 1 June. This decision was considered dangerous and irrational; it caused shock among the other 194 countries that had signed the text, which had been considered historical. We remember the various discussions that took place in this committee. After disappointment, it is timely and essential to analyse the precise consequences of the US withdrawal and to do everything possible to achieve the objectives of the agreement. Minister, do you have any information that the press has not yet disclosed with respect to this American withdrawal? When, for example, will it be effective? Have there been any European consultations following the US President's decision? If these consultations have taken place, how do they regulate America's exit from this Paris Agreement. At Belgian, European and United Nations level, what measures will be taken to consolidate the acquis obtained in Paris? It is therefore the worry, the dismay sometimes, and above all the desire to fulfil the ambitions displayed in Paris. How is this issue addressed at the federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u2	Minister, Donald Trump has decided to withdraw the United States from the climate agreement. Beyond indignation, I would first like to know what measures Belgium is going to take to deal with this criminal act for future generations, but also for millions of people who are already suffering from the consequences of climate change. In plenary and in his media reactions, the Prime Minister was open to our suggestions. What is the situation in practice? What measures have you taken or intend to take? What steps have been taken to advance in this direction? I refer to the measures of financial law and socio-environmental rights at the borders; this was what was discussed in plenary and the Prime Minister was in favour of them. Furthermore, can you identify the potential financial consequences of Mr Trump's statements about stopping US contributions to various UN climate-related programs and funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u3	Colleagues, as you know, President Trump formally announced on 1 June 2017 that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement. This agreement is a turning point in multilateral climate policy. This Paris Agreement is universal, ambitious and binding. Its binding provisions include compliance by all parties with a climate plan, the contribution of developed countries to the financing of a climate plan and transparent reporting on climate policy and financing. The precise content of several of these obligations - in particular the ambition of the emission reduction targets and the level of financial contributions - is determined by the parties themselves at national level. I deeply deplore the decision of the US and continue with the federal government to support the Paris Agreement, as do the other signatory countries, as well as many sub-national authorities, cities and businesses around the world, and particularly in the United States, since you have read it in the press. Indeed, states and cities have come forward to respond to Trump's announcement. Through the voice of the Prime Minister, the Belgian government had the opportunity to communicate clearly to President Trump himself Belgium's views on the matter, which I immediately agreed with after the Prime Minister's statement. President Trump's political tone was clear, but we need, however, a few more details to formalize, and you have seen it well, the withdrawal of the United States from the Paris agreement. According to Article 28 of that Agreement, a party may withdraw by notifying it in writing at the earliest three years after the entry into force of the Agreement, that is, after 5 November 2019. This withdrawal will then be effective one year later or later if a different date has been defined. Until this happens, the US remains formally a party to the Paris Agreement. As for the desire expressed by President Trump to renegotiate Paris on the basis of a reduction in US commitments, I refer to the joint statement made by Germany, Italy and France, as well as other countries and international leaders who immediately pointed out that this path was dead. In addition, the period of November 2019 corresponds to the end of Donald Trump's term of office. It goes without saying that this is above all a serious setback for all those who support a multilateral approach to global problems, especially in the context of the Paris Agreement, where we have succeeded precisely in getting all developed and developing countries, on an equal footing with associations and businesses, to take this agreement. The level of ambition of US climate policy is indeed, according to these declarations, reduced, which risks widening the gap between us and our goal of staying well below the 2 degrees Celsius. However, the real impact of Trump's decisions is still uncertain. We had the opportunity to mention it in the National Climate Commission during an exchange in which I participated with Mr Peter Wittoeck, who is the director of the climate service. The recent statements by many sub-national authorities and non-state actors in the United States, the possibility of legal proceedings against Trump's plans and the recent encouraging developments in China and India are all elements that could mitigate the impact of this withdrawal. However, it is worrying to hear that the financial contributions of the United States in support of climate policy in developing countries will cease. Trump announced that the United States would not contribute the remaining $2 billion to the Green Climate Fund, to which President Obama had committed. Trump's statement was followed by a strong reaction, not only from many other parties to the Paris agreement, but also from a large number of American cities, companies and states that said they would continue to implement the agreement. For its part, the Bloomberg Philanthropies Foundation has announced that it will contribute $15 million to the budget of the secretariat of the United Nations Convention to make possible some of its activities supporting climate policy in developing countries. That is a very important fact to be noted. This declaration created renewed enthusiasm for the fulfilment of the Paris commitments. This is the only appropriate response to such cases. If the enthusiasm of Paris was perhaps, in the eyes of some, falling asleep, there it was reactivated in a very beautiful way by this declaration. This concerns only the declaration, because from a financial point of view, you see that there will be impacts. I will not fail to discuss with my colleagues in the Federal Government, the Regions and our European partners what additional policy initiatives could have a positive impact on this issue. President Trump's announcement marks the end of the leading role played by the US administration under Obama in preparation for the Paris conference. The constructive signals from the summit between the European Union and China a few weeks ago show that the two partners will strengthen their cooperation in this area. The decision of Canada, China and the European Union to hold a joint meeting in September, which is likely to replace de facto the meeting of the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate (MEF) created and chaired by the United States under Obama, indicates that President Trump's isolationist policy will mainly undermine his country's influence in the debate. As for the precise content and role of this forum, it still needs to be considered in consultation with Canada and China. I would like to conclude with a clear message which is also important for the following questions: there is no doubt that Belgium will continue to contribute with renewed tenacity to an ambitious multilateral climate policy in order to preserve the sustainable development of the planet and human rights, especially for the most vulnerable in the world. The events of recent days have only strengthened this conviction worldwide, particularly for Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for painting the picture of the various actions and reactions that have taken place since June 1. Like you, we welcome the reactions of other countries in pursuing the implementation of this Paris Agreement and its ambitions. Others, with enthusiasm and fierce will, have joined the momentum to honour these Paris commitments. You recalled that an important global partner, China, can also resolutely join the march forward. You're talking about when withdrawal can be effective; and a year later, you're talking about November 5, 2019. You tell me, or I misunderstood, that this is the end of President Trump's term. But I think it's 2020. You therefore take into consideration the additional year. All right. So it's clear in my mind. I really urge you to ensure that Belgium, even if it is not a country of the size of China, can also be a privileged player within the European Union in pursuing the commitments made. If we can find a political momentum to reactivate our will, we would be even more satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u5	Minister, I note the financial consequences. Two billion for the Green Fund and the organization's financing. Bloomberg with 15 million. Admit that it does not compensate for everything. I note above all that if you deplore this exit, for the rest, concerning the measures, you are at the stage of the examination. It has been more than a month since the statements were made. In plenary, the Prime Minister had shown an opening. But you, at your level, continue to "examine the measures". I hope that you will quickly communicate the measures that will be taken, even if only the actions that you are taking to ensure that at European level as well, concrete measures can be taken. I will come back with this proposal for social and environmental tariffs for countries outside the Paris Agreement. I was waiting for you to confirm, at the very least, what the Prime Minister said in plenary on this aspect, and to clarify the first steps taken to bring it to the European level or at least to the European Union. Unfortunately, once again, I am still hungry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u6	We're in good shape in the morning, as you know. Apart from this, I would still like to say this. You realize that, and I feel it through your answer: Belgium cannot act alone. It is clear that if measures are to be proposed, they are in a European context. You were referring to customs. But between the European countries, there are, as I know, no customs borders, and therefore customs concerns the European Union. If measures are to be imagined or implemented, this can only be done through and within the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u7	Belgium cannot act alone. It must act within the European Union. But what has she done in the European Union for the past month to act? That was my question, exactly. And there's nothing about that in the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u9	Mrs. Dierick is apologised. Mrs Caprasse, your question has been included here because its content is closer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, on Tuesday 6 June you said that you wanted to review Belgium's climate targets downwards. In your view, the European Commission does not take enough account of the fact that Belgium is "a transit country with many foreign heavy goods vehicles and an ageing infrastructure." Following your release, the Prime Minister felt it necessary to clarify that your statements do not represent "the government's position". Minister, what is the federal government's position on meeting Belgium's climate objectives? Has it evolved as a result of the Prime Minister's intervention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u11	Madam Minister, my question is in line with previous questions today. However, I would like to ask for clarification. "Make the future great again." That was what the Prime Minister replied on 1 June when I and many other fellow Members asked him whether our country, unlike the United States, would respect the Paris climate agreement. The Prime Minister was very clear. The Paris agreements are important, even fundamental to the future. They're very ambitious. There can be no doubt about it: our country fully supports the implementation of future important agreements, as planned. Six days later, however, you and/or your spokesperson were in doubt. The European target of 35% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 was or is too high. You would therefore like to start negotiations with Europe to reduce the Belgian climate objectives. Fortunately, the Prime Minister whistled back to you immediately, Madam Secretary. He was also clear in the plenary session of 8 June: "We are ambitious." We're coherent. We will do everything we can to achieve our objectives. Now that the fog has, hopefully, gone and your big boss has given us some clarity, the next question remains. What's next? I would therefore like to put the following questions to you. I would like to believe Prime Minister Michel when he says that Belgium will go for the ambitious goals. Last week was the first test for this. The European Council then clarified its position on the energy efficiency objective. The Council will follow the Commission's proposal for 30%, but has deleted the word "binding" and added new loopholes to the energy saving obligation. I am talking about Article 7. My question is as follows. What attitude did Belgium adopt in the vote on these three points? Will our country still interpret the objective as binding? An energy pact is urgently needed to meet the EU's objectives. During the committee on 13 June, you explained the timing of this. Has there been renewed contact with regional authorities since then? Will this timing be maintained without delay? What about the timing of our national climate and energy plan that we have to draw up for Europe? What is the planning for a draft by January 2018 and for a final plan by January 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u12	Minister, I would also like to know very precisely, in fact, how things went about this communication. I would like to know what led your spokesman to announce in the newspapers De Standaard and Het Nieuwsblad, a few days after Donald Trump's frantic statements, which we mentioned in the previous question, that Belgium was going to relax its climate ambitions, and that it was necessary to renegotiate with the Commission beyond the flexibility already achieved and not to honour our commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 35% by 2030, since you considered them exaggerated and did not take into account that we would be just a transit country. How did we get there? Let us be clear, Madam Minister, that you cannot invoke the surprise of the morning phone call received on a day off, since the journalist said that he had had a second telephone contact in the evening, and that during this contact, your spokesperson not only confirmed but was even more concrete, suggesting that she had documented herself with her colleagues, within the cabinet, or even with your chief of staff or with yourself. So I come back with my question: how did such statements come about? Who validated such a line? Who gave such content to be worn by your spokesman? What are these statements echoing? I would like to insist, because on Tuesday morning, in the De Ochtend programme, your spokesperson maintains his remarks, which clearly indicates that at this time, no one in your team seems offended by reading the content of the articles. How have such statements been made possible? Is this, as some media have mentioned, linked to a position that you defend in informal consultations? I would also like to know what the Prime Minister's intervention was. What time did you get it on the phone? How did you politically interpret his new call to order? Why did it take so long to get enough clarification from your firm? On the substance, it is known that you have already personally criticized in the past the objective set for Belgium and argued for a target of -31.3% or less. At the time, you had exactly the same comments that your spokesman had made a few days ago, which could explain that. Since when have you abandoned this critical line of demand for easing and joined, without any further reservations, the figure chosen by the Commission? Is it June 6, following the importance of the reactions and/or the Prime Minister's intervention? In the end, what is your position on the figure below 35% as a target for Belgium? What are the last known positions in your colleagues in the federal government and at the regional level as of June 5th? This will allow us to better understand how the position you held on that date could be built. What is Belgium's official position in the European process? When did it date? We know that the federal government is not alone in this matter. I would also like to identify the follow-up that your regional counterparts have decided to give to this catastrophic episode for the image of Belgium. He said that they wanted to develop things within the CNC about your ability to speak again on behalf of Belgium. What exactly is the situation? More generally, I would like to know your analysis of this new cougac and the political lessons you learn from it. This is not the first important bumblebee that you – or your firm – commit. I do not think it would be useful to repeat the list which the press has drawn up, especially since my speaking time has largely expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u13	Minister, on May 27, G7 leaders acknowledged their inability to reach agreement with the United States on the fight against global warming. In this way, they have demonstrated the fragility of the Paris agreements, which provide for a reduction of greenhouse gases of at least 35% by 2030 and involve, from now on, the development of ambitious national climate policies. The withdrawal referred to by the United States of these agreements has unfortunately turned into a dramatic certainty, relegating to the background the need for genuine and serious "decarbonization" of our economies. Your spokesperson's statements about a possible questioning of federal commitments and your firm's approaches to the European institutions have added the disorder to the astonishment. The Prime Minister has since reiterated his commitment to the objectives of COP21 - without fully reassuring the precise scope of this intervention. In any event, it is up to the federal government to drive a real disruptive dynamic and to take tangible measures that will present citizens and entrepreneurs with clear and lasting beacons, the only ones that can increase the necessary public and private investment. The Energy Pact, which we have been calling for and calling for for several months, must draw up a first regulatory framework. 2017 must endorse this commitment, knowing that beyond this deadline, it will become more perilous to achieve substantial results. Minister, I would like to ask you three questions. What is the state of play of the negotiations to date and what are the guidelines adopted during your discussions with the representatives of the social partners? Can you guarantee that the federal government will introduce a carbon tax in the near future, which is the best path to an energy transition? If so, what order will it be? Thirdly, will the government review the taxation of corporate vehicles, which is a privilege that has no equivalent in Europe (25 % of the volume of greenhouse gases comes from transport and especially from certain types of vehicles), in order to demonstrate a much stronger commitment to environmental taxation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, in order to make the framework clear, I will take back a history of the technical situation on this issue, which I have already had the opportunity to make several times. The European Council of 23 and 24 October 2014 – the federal government settled a few days before – agreed on a 2030 energy-climate framework. The European Union is therefore committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 and all Member States will participate in this binding target. This ambitious commitment was taken from the perspective of COP21 at a time when the European Union and Member States played a crucial role in the adoption of the Paris Climate Agreement in December 2015. This has made it possible to demonstrate to the rest of the world that the European Union is determined to take the lead against global warming. This target of 40% is set as follows: - 43% in the sectors covered by the EU emissions trading scheme, known as the ETS scheme, and - 30% in the sectors not covered by the ETS scheme, therefore the so-called non-ETS scheme in transport, buildings and agriculture. This effort will be converted into a binding target for each Member State. All Member States will therefore contribute to this reduction with targets ranging from 0% to 40% compared to 2005. The Commission adopted a proposal for a regulation on the allocation of effort on 20 July 2016 in line with this target of - 30%. The efforts assigned to each Member State were distributed on the basis of GDP per capita, taking into account the cost-effectiveness criterion for Member States whose GDP is above the European average. For Belgium, this target is -35 % compared to 2005. We are therefore moving from - 15% to 2020 (that was the standard, the one we had and that we distributed under the agreement on the burden sharing 2013-2020 with the federated entities) to - 35% of efforts for the period 2021-2030, which is a very important effort. In the table, which I can give you, which concerns all the European countries, we can indeed see that efforts can range from 0% to 40%. So, for example, if you take Sweden, you have - 40% of efforts; Denmark - 39%; Belgium - 35%; Italy - 33%; Romania - 2%; Bulgaria - 0%. For some countries, you also have two columns of possible flexibility coefficients. This shows that, from the time the target was set in July 2016, negotiations between the European Commission and each Member State were to be initiated in order to have the percentage of efforts allocated to each country definitively fixed. It was in this area of flexibility that the declaration was made. We had another European summit on 19 June, where the Regions represented Belgium and Mrs Schauvliege was present. A continuation of this exchange with the European Commission took place concerning the efforts to be made globally and on a country-by-country basis. There is still no concrete action to date for Belgium with regard to the efforts to be made. In intra-Belgian discussions, we all participate: there are representatives of the federal government and of each of the regions. I assume that it is under the Estonian Presidency, which is now taking over, that these discussions can be concluded so that we know exactly what effort is required of us and that we can re-start, with the federated entities, as we did for the 2013-2020 tranche, the sharing of efforts in this area. In this area, the efforts to be made concern transport, buildings and agriculture, mainly at regional level. The Regions are therefore considering how the objectives could be achieved through efforts on their soil between 2021 and 2030. The Belgian position is discussed within the DGE. It can be summarized as follows: "Belgium considers that the proposal to share efforts is generally balanced". The proposal made by the European Commission is considered in Belgium to be generally balanced. Discussions continue at the technical level. The Council of Ministers of the European Union of 19 June, where Mrs Schauvliege defended Belgium's interests, had the opportunity to address this issue. The debate continues, as I said, under the Estonian Presidency. The European Council of 22 and 23 June 2017 strongly reaffirmed the commitment of the European Union and its Member States to the rapid and full implementation of the Paris Agreement and to contribute to the achievement of climate finance objectives. Our Prime Minister confirmed, by answering your questions at the June 8 plenary session, the federal government's commitment to our climate commitments. The federal government has taken several initiatives to combat global warming. I recalled earlier: after several years of negotiations – six, seven or eight depending on the versions – we reached a decision on burden sharing at the Belgian level, and the income from ETS allowances was paid to the Regions. They use these revenues precisely in these policies, to combat global warming. We are engaged, together with the Regions, in the process of the energy pact, which aims to provide our country with a low-carbon energy mix. Work with the Regions is on the right track and we wish to conclude by the end of 2017. I will not recall everything I have already explained in committee about the way we are currently travelling together. Today is the beginning of July. All responses requested from the stakeholders were submitted to DG Energy. The CONCERE, which is the administration bringing together the Energy Directorates of the federated entities and the federal government, is working on a full text. It will be submitted to the four Energy Ministers in September. In this way, we will see how the answers to the questions we have asked are directed in order to continue the work of the Pact. The National Strategic Investment Plan launched at the end of March, with energy and mobility as priorities, will undoubtedly contribute to the establishment of an energy and sustainable mobility policy. All these policies adequately demonstrate the federal government's commitment to a low-carbon society and economy. Let's go back to what I called London's "pataquès." I see that some colleagues have conducted a specific investigation and added to their question factual evidence that they have followed the statements made on 6 June last minute. I believe that with the flexibility coefficients that are provided for in the Belgian discussion, there has been confusion in the technical information that was in the hands of my spokesman, who has just joined my cabinet, and who replied spontaneously, on a Monday in Pentecost, without calling on me or my chief of staff, to know what was happening. Just read the table to easily understand that 35 minus 2.5, that's 32.5. That is what I had already said before. To be quite clear with you and to remind you of certain memories, in July 2016, when this table came out after the European Commission's decision to propose, I had answered some of you in plenary on these issues. For now, things are still going on. These coefficients exist; they are not invented. That's not true. But the explanation given by it is of its own right, although the figures exist on a table and they are not at all false. What we are going to do with it, what will happen from the end of this negotiation is another thing. But let me stress the particular situation at the international level. This happened a few days after Donald Trump's statement of June 1. Timing is important; minds are focused on Trump's catastrophic statement. In terms of communication, the timing was very wrong. And my spokesman was not able to provide enough nuance to her answer, because she did not know enough of the case at that time and she did not have recourse to the Chief of Staff or myself to exchange about the question, simple and kind, posed by a journalist whom I met the same day, when I returned from London and whose information he was looking for and not the buzz. He was even very surprised that his article generated such a media surge. He had not imagined such an impact which was linked to a particular period of attention to these objectives. The Prime Minister recalled the leadership of the federal government. I myself did what I needed when I left the Offshore Wind Energy 2017 in London. It is an international meeting of all countries that are present around the North Seas (the Baltic Sea is also concerned). I even signed again that day an agreement with the countries neighbouring our North Sea for the development of offshore wind energy and connections between all these offshore parks. This shows in concrete terms the efforts made and those we still want to make at European level, even with other countries. You can see from the picture that some of them have a 0 % requirement because historically they have a very "coal" balance sheet. It is therefore impossible for them to make efforts that are then taken care of by others. It is therefore worth comparing all these elements. I was holding a speech because Belgium had been designated to write the introductory word for this morning's work, which concluded with the signing of an agreement and the visit of various stands. For those who are concerned about it, it also explains that I did not have the immediate perception of the surge created. Fortunately, I was alerted by the collaborators who had stayed in Belgium. After leaving this meeting, we made the press release that appeared around 1:00 p.m., which denied this false information, not in the figures but in the interpretation and use of these figures. To affirm that Belgian territory is densely populated, that it is traversed by intense traffic, that it has ageing infrastructures, etc., these elements are accurate but must be changed with all the efforts we are making. So, all this has to be refreshed, recontextualized; that's what I'm doing here. Unfortunately, my spokesperson spoke alone and, so, when I came back... At some point, it was amazing. Journalists, feeling the opportunity, didn't think I was in London. So I said, "Very well, we're going to have a press conference, as soon as I get to the Midi station at 6:00 p.m." I got the reporters because some of them were looking for images. I mean, where I was, it was a little complicated. So, all I could do was Belga, phone and so on. I took the phone myself. I was the one who responded to everyone during the day and, in the evening, I replied to the television media who wanted to see me in person, quite rightly. I responded immediately to that request. I said, "Here, you'll see me in person as soon as I get off the train." So they were also able to see that, throughout the day, I had been really busy abroad. To continue the story, I had the opportunity to reaffirm this position again - all the past shows it also, since the Paris agreement, the agreement on burden sharing in Belgium but, in the continuum of all this - still very recently. I was in Luxembourg on 26 June 2017 to reaffirm Belgium's position at the European Council of Energy Ministers. We have approved an ambitious general approach to energy efficiency, bringing our energy efficiency effort from 27 to 30 per cent. And the European Union, through this increase in effort, once again confirms its ambitions in terms of climate and energy saving. I welcome this collective effort. It was an exciting discussion. We thought we were done at 1:00. Finally, we finished at 6 p.m. because we really exchanged as much as possible to reach a common position that would allow us to achieve what Cañete was proposing: 30% energy efficiency effort. That is, in general, what has happened, in what context we need to see things. Via my collaborator, I'll give you the picture I've just talked about. It will be more interesting for you to have it in front of you than to hear it orally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u15	I have allowed speaking time to explode, both for the question-makers and the minister. As a result, I ask for brief replies from parliamentarians and no reply from the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u16	I thank the Minister for her response. I would point out that inappropriate sentences or appraisals can be a waste of time and energy. What is unfortunate for a minister of energy!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive explanation, although it is still unclear to me what is still being negotiated with the European Commission, what percentage it is talking about, including flexibility, and what percentage it will end up at. I also did not receive an answer to my question about the timing of the energy plan. I know the timing we have to achieve, but I do not know the state of play. Nor do I know whether there has been any contact with the other regional authorities, given what is happening. That is why I shall put my question again on another occasion. We must now move forward. Besides, there's no reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u18	Madam President, I will read the answer again, but I have the impression that it is less clear and less engaging after the answer than before! Prior to that, reference was made to the Prime Minister's proposals that 35% would no longer be reached without trying to grapple. In the minister's answer, I feel like we're still trying to grapple! This is all the more worrying because, contrary to what the Belgian authorities say, the Commission considers that Belgium will already miss the 2020 climate target. That is to say, if we have an interest in speeding things up. That's for the bottom. Madam Minister, on the form, you say that your spokesman responded spontaneously to a journalist on the morning of a day off, without having his words validated. Nevertheless, and I was referring to it in my question, there was a confirmation by a second phone call in the evening and there was still some confirmation on the radio the next morning. I would like to see an improvised response for the first call, based on the information available to your spokesperson, but for the rest of the day and the next morning, I do not agree. This even disturbed your colleague Bellot since he told RTBF Radio that we were going to decide to reconsider the position and that we could not hold on to such an objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u19	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u20	He was questioned about what was said in the press. That is to say if, on the form, your answer is unsatisfactory. However, I had read your remarks that the future belonged to those who were ambitious. I fear that this does not apply to your policy on this matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u21	Minister, I listened to your answers. I heard that there had been a lot of meetings and that the number of federated entities made it difficult to reach agreements. But I didn't get an answer to my specific questions. We are in the Health Committee and my questions were about health! I am disappointed that I did not have specific answers to my two questions. We will come back to the matter in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u22	We are in the context of oral questions, and I cannot allow things to be debated. Nothing prevents us from discussing the subject in another form in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u23	Madam Minister, our Prime Minister pointed out a few days ago the irresponsibility of the withdrawal of the US from the Paris climate agreement, an agreement which provides for a drastic reduction of CO2 emissions in order, in the long run, to lower the global temperature of the planet. However, the use of five-seaters has tripled in a few years. These vehicles, often pick-ups whose engines can reach 6200 cc, 400 cv, are not subject to the same taxation as sports cars powered by the same engines. No introduction tax for these utilities, reduced as they are calculated on the MMA (maximum permissible mass) and not exceeding 3.5 tonnes. Accurate CO2 measurements cannot be found in the commercial literature of these devices since they are not subject to Eco-malus. Compared with cars with equivalent engines, it can be estimated that they spit more than 300 gr/km CO2. Their use is thus made very interesting financially speaking. I do not mention here the dangerousness of such vehicles given their imposing shape. One can easily imagine the damage caused by the impact of such a mass on a pedestrian, especially small. I spoke with the Minister of Finance about the tax aspect of this problem. Everyone can understand that the use of commercial vehicles, when intended for professional use, is normal and appropriate. Their load area can justify their purchase for independents whose deductibility is imperative. It must be noted that many individuals divert this deductibility for everyday use or even sports. There is therefore a loss of profits for the administration. I proposed to him that these vehicles should be zero-rated only for users with a business number. The others would be subject to the normal taxation of a vehicle for family use, calculated on the basis of cylinder capacity, power in KW and CO2 emissions. This would allow for greater tax revenues, at a time when everyone must make an effort to maintain fiscal balance, as well as greater accountability for CO2 production. Minister, in your capacity as Minister of Environment and Sustainable Development, what would be your specific comments, observations and advice to assess this issue more accurately?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u24	Mr Flahaux, the federal government, as I have said on several occasions, is fully committed to its powers to respect and implement the Paris Agreement. Therefore, we are making every effort to achieve our objectives through measures taken jointly with the Regions to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. To this end, the tax tool is essential. Indeed, environmental taxation is an indispensable instrument for an effective climate policy. However, in order to achieve the desired results, taxation must be socially fair, equitable, proportionate and coherent between the different levels of power in our country. For example, with regard to transport, the Federal Government is pursuing - through excise duties - a policy aimed at discouraging the use of vehicles with high greenhouse gas emissions, while the Regions have been responsible – since the sixth reform of the State – for the introduction of the tax, for example by means of the Eco-malus in Wallonia, the traffic tax and the kilometric tax for trucks. As far as commercial vehicles are concerned, as you point out, they are exempt from entry-in-use tax and benefit from a special regime in terms of traffic tax, according to a specific price grid in relation to the maximum permissible mass. In addition, no Eco-malus is provided for this type of vehicle. Verification of the technical characteristics specific to the tax definition of vans shall be carried out during the technical inspection. Commercial vehicles must be present there within one month of their entry into service and thereafter each year. In my view, the use of the tax definition of a van provides only a specific framework for professional use, given the primary function of transporting goods in this category of vehicle. Any other type of use of this type of vehicle could therefore not be justified fiscally and from an environmental point of view. That is why I intend to discuss this issue with my colleagues in charge of climate and taxation at regional level. I'll write to them. Mechanisms to avoid taxation must be combated through a coherent vision of taxation. As such, we have included regional administrations in the technical discussions in the carbon pricing debate launched earlier this year. The transport sector is one of the major challenges of climate policy. Emissions from this sector have been increasing continuously since 1990, with more than 23% between 1990 and 2015. This sector now accounts for 22.6% of total emissions. This is the result of an increase in the number of vehicles, with more than 54% since 1990, in the number of kilometres travelled and in the average cylinder capacity, particularly as a result of the growing success of sport utility vehicle (SUV) and multi-use vehicles. It is therefore crucial to act in this sector in order to comply with the Paris Agreement and to achieve our objectives as derived from European legislation, namely the proposed Effort Sharing Regulation, which gives Belgium a reduction target of less than 35% compared to 2005 for sectors not covered by the European Emission Trading System (ETS), which concerns industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u25	I would like to thank the minister for her response. I have no doubt that as soon as the catch has been reconnected in the Regions, we can find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you a number of questions on this subject, and I am referred to each time, at least on a regular basis, so that I do not always receive a specific answer. I have divided the 59 recommendations by area of competence. That's how I know what you're really qualified for. That way I hope to get an answer to my questions. I will do the same for my questions to the ministers responsible for other aspects. Madam Secretary, what actions have you taken to protect the environment since the explosion of the diesel gates scandal and what will you do, whether in consultation with the Regions or not, in relation to the aspects for which you are responsible? In Recommendation No. 20 requires the federal government to assess the impact of all types of vehicles on the environment. You do not have the authority to do so, but you do have the authority to do so for non-road mobile machinery. What are you going to do in that respect? I believe that you have the authority to make recommendations Nos 21, 25, 27, 31, 32, 41, 42, 47, 56, 57 and, of course, the overarching 59. What have you done about these recommendations or what do you intend to do? The next question I would like to ask you is that you have already answered it for my fellow Members. However, I would like to ask you whether you agree with me that we need a standard on diesel soot emissions at European level very quickly. Finally, will there be a new federal plan on the quality of indoor air and outdoor air? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u27	Madam Chair, Minister, on March 18, 2016, the special committee responsible for the follow-up to the Dieselgate case adopted its report, through which a series of recommendations were made, particularly with regard to the environment component. Mrs Dedry tells us that she is questioning all the ministers concerned. I did so last December, in writing, by taking up all the recommendations. Nine months after the adoption of these motions for resolutions, which provided for an evaluation one year later, we see nothing coming. I do not personally question you. All ministers and probably also parliamentarians could have taken initiatives in this area. In December, you answered the written questions asked and I thank you for that. I quote: "With regard to efforts to reduce polluting emissions for road vehicles, the margin of manoeuvre of the federal authority is strictly limited by the framework of the single European market. We therefore appeal to the European bodies for a rapid introduction of realistic tests that reflect the actual emissions of vehicles." Minister, more than a year after the adoption of the recommendations, can you report on the progress that has been made on this point? I also turn to the chairman of the committee: could we organize ourselves in the autumn to hold a debate on the follow-up to these motions for resolutions adopted unanimously at the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u28	Mr Senesael, it has not been planned for the Dieselgate Committee to meet to ensure follow-up. We will probably have to disperse and see how we can organize it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u29	Madam President, Belgium is following the strategy of the European Union, "Clean Air for Europe', prepared in 2005 and revised in 2012, which aims to achieve the level of air quality recommended by the WHO by 2050. As far as the results are concerned, Belgium has achieved the first emission reduction target, but we are experiencing difficulties in maintaining sufficient air quality. In this respect, infringements were detected until 2013 for PM10 in the three regions and currently NOx concentrations continue to cause problems in the Brussels-Capital Region. By 2030, European legislation should be complemented by Member States' policies to make it possible to achieve this target by half. To this end, a new Directive on national emission ceilings was recently adopted. The regions have divided this effort among themselves and have already announced that they will request a federal contribution, in particular in the area of taxation. Those questions will be examined in order to form a cooperation agreement. The joint introduction of tests in real conditions and the new cycle tests on emission measurements WLTP aim to ensure emission values closer to reality. For more information about this, you can contact the relevant Minister for Mobility with all your questions. In parentheses, it is the minister who coordinates the whole issue at European level. To answer your second question on Recommendation 20, I would say that with the adoption of the new regulation last year, we were able to impose lower emission limits. As regards the use and impact of the use of non-road machinery, the Regions are competent. With regard to Recommendation 17, the increase in excise duties on diesel should be seen. The competent minister is obviously the Minister of Finance and the adjustment of the taxation of company cars is unfavourable for diesel vehicles. With regard to emission limits, whose decisions are taken at European level, our scope remains limited. However, we support the objectives of the ongoing work to reduce emission limits. For its part, the federal government has jurisdiction over environmental standards for products, mobile equipment, including road vehicles. I have a table, which I can communicate to you and which will obviously be much more legible for you than if I paraphrased it orally, which concerns the current standards for vehicle engines, whether they are non-road engines, private vehicles, light commercial vehicles (Euro 5 and Euro 6) or heavy utility vehicles. You will see quite clearly, it seems to me, at the beginning of this painting that my collaborator will communicate to you – in French and Dutch. Also in the answer to your question on Recommendation 17, the current European projects are the proposal for Regulation 2014/0012 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending European Regulations 715/2007 and 595/2009 as regards the reduction of pollutant emissions from road vehicles. The purpose of this proposal is to introduce into Regulation 715/2007 and Regulation 595/2009 a number of amendments concerning the reduction of pollutant emissions from road vehicles. This draft proposal focuses on the areas in which market failures have occurred and on the regulation that prevents addressing major challenges in the context of EU air quality. The procedure was launched in 2014. We are currently awaiting a new proposal. With regard to the answer to your question on recommendation 21, the fight against air pollution is a regional competence. The federal government has jurisdiction over environmental product standards, mobile equipment, including road vehicles. I have just said so in the context of the previous reply. For the increase in diesel excise duties, the Minister of Finance is responsible. For the emission standards for motor vehicles, I answered your question on recommendation 17. For these cases, the Belgian position is drawn up in consultation with the Regions through the Committees of Experts. With regard to the implementation of the other recommendations, I would of course advise you, as Mr Senesael has done, to address you each time to the competent minister. It's tedious, but he did it, so it's possible. As far as your question 4 and air quality are concerned, we are working through a cooperation agreement with the Regions. I would therefore refer you to my previous answer on this subject. By 2050, we should fully comply with the threshold set by the World Health Organisation throughout the European Union. In addition to tax policies (e.g. excises, corporate vehicles, the establishment of the mobility account, measures taken and prepared by other departments), my administration has made significant contributions to the efforts of the Regions to reduce air pollution, particularly for non-road mobile machinery. The European rules are strictly implemented by my department. The third level of requirement has been applied since 2016 and my administration will carry out the first checks already this year. We will have the opportunity to come back to it on your next questions. On your question 5 on emission limits, these decisions are taken at European level. I've already said it. Our scope is therefore limited. We support the objectives of the ongoing work aimed at reducing these limits. The regulations which have been adopted at European level and which define the emission limits in number and mass for fine particulate matter, including diesel soot, are the Euro 5 and Euro 6 (715/2007), which I mentioned and which you will find in the table, as well as the Euro 5 and Euro 6 regulation for the other Regulation 595/2009 concerning heavy commercial vehicles. Emission limits for gaseous pollutants and particulate pollutants are proposed in Regulation 2016/1628. The current proposal for a Euro 5-Euro 6 revision, which I have just mentioned, aims in particular to reduce emissions of fine particulate matter, in order to remedy the shortcomings of the diesel vehicle emission tests. The latter were obviously highlighted in connection with the problem of fraud in VW, which led to the Dieselgate Commission. The European Commission has developed the test procedure for measuring road emissions under actual driving conditions (RDE). Now, it has developed a new test procedure called WLTP, which allows even better measurement of vehicle emissions in real-life conditions. At national level, it is not possible to prevent the placing on the market of a vehicle approved at European level. At regional level, however, incentives can be used to motivate the purchase of cleaner vehicles. That is why I am going to write to the relevant regional ministers, and when I have received their answer, we can go a little further. I come to your last question. A number of actions have been undertaken within the framework of cooperation on the efforts to be made for 2020, at the request of the Regions. The latter are, at this stage, all executed. Of course, we remain at your disposal and at your disposal. We also remain at the disposal and listening of the Regions for additional regional requests which we may be aware of by answering the letters we send to the Regions. Of course, Mr Senesael has already taken note of what I have just said through the answers given to him by the various competent ministers. The Committee is rightly concerned about the implementation of the recommendations. I have given some of the answers in my answer to Mrs Dedry, since I am the order of the questions; but it would of course be appropriate to bring together, under the leadership of the Minister for Mobility, the Dieselgate Commission to see, a year later, what is the follow-up to the recommendations. It may then be appropriate to involve the ministers, in a panel such as the one we adopted at the meetings of the Dieselgate Committee, to aggregate all the answers and see where we are in the implementation of the committee's recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answers I was allowed to receive this time. I would like to hear you say that you are in favour of looking at the whole picture around dieselgate as soon as possible, for example in autumn. After all, we are always faced with shared competences, not only at federal level, but also at the level of the Länder. Within the federal government alone, this would be a good suggestion that you clearly support, and perhaps you will be quoting your fellow Members to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers. Ms. Dedry went into the details of the various recommendations. To listen carefully to you, minister, I have all the more the desire and the need for an evaluation meeting. Your answers are quite relevant - who am I, by the way, to judge otherwise? - but they raise new questions. In the context of an oral question, we cannot continue the exchange. For six months, parliamentarians have been delving into this matter. We wanted to seek consensus and found it on almost the entire text. Your response, particularly with regard to laboratory tests of vehicles and road tests, which have been the subject of various interventions at the economic, health and environmental level, gives rise to discussion and encourages us to make further progress in the recommendations. Ms Jadin was the chairman of the Dieselgate Commission. I was vice president. I think it would be good if we could meet back home, with a panel, with the ministers concerned or their representatives, to take stock, as you suggest in a very positive way. This would show that the commission that has been set up is also concerned about the follow-up to its recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u32	Mr Senesael, we will indeed contact Mrs Jadin and the committee secretary to see how things can be considered. But you, as Vice-President, can obviously see with Mrs Jadin and the members of the committee. I think it would be best to bring this committee together, while inviting the other Members, since we are all concerned somewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u33	Minister, in June 2015, the European Commission brought Belgium before the Court of Justice of the Union, because of the persistence of high levels of particulate matter representing a significant risk to public health. Member States are obliged to ensure good air quality for citizens. Studies show that poor air quality causes more deaths each year than road accidents. Microparticles called PM10, mainly due to human activities such as transportation, industry and domestic heating, cause respiratory problems, lung cancer, and can lead to premature death. Although Belgium has been able to demonstrate some improvement over the last ten years, the measures taken have not been sufficient to solve the problem and, since the deadline for compliance has long expired, the Commission has referred the matter to the Court of Justice of the Union. Seventeen Member States have declared excessive levels since 2010, and infringement proceedings have already been initiated concerning the United Kingdom, Portugal, Italy, Spain, Germany and France. Other procedures could be followed against other Member States. Minister, a wind blow is not enough to sweep away fine particles, let alone nitrogen dioxide. However, what measures are being taken by your administration to improve air quality? In the south of the country, it is customary to heat with wood, with one of its derivatives such as pellets. What are the true impacts of these practices on air quality? What is the status of the procedure introduced by the European Commission against Belgium in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u34	Air quality is a major public health issue and for the environment, as you pointed out. Like the fight against climate change, the fight against air pollution is a cross-cutting policy that involves each elected official, regardless of the level of power in which he or she sits or the skills he or she is responsible for. This also involves each individual. Because of its geographical location at the heart of Europe, its size and the importance of road traffic and economic exchanges, which we were talking about earlier in a response to other questions, the problem of air quality is particularly complex in Belgium and our situation is therefore highly dependent on the policies and measures taken in our neighbours. I haveten to stress that. When I see some of our neighbours still operating coal-fired power plants – Germany in particular – I cannot insist too much. The pooling of efforts at Belgian level between the different levels of power is obviously important, but also between the Member States of the European Union. Air quality in Europe is in fact regulated by Directive 2008/50, which lays down, inter alia, a maximum number of days for exceeding the thresholds set by the World Health Organisation. In recent years, Belgium has complied with these requirements for fine particles but unfortunately continues to exceed – as you said – the thresholds for nitrogen oxides, NOx in the Brussels-Capital Region. NOx is mainly from the combustion of oil or gas derivatives. Belgium has been notified by the European Commission in this regard. We are only at the standstill stage for the moment. Exchanges continue between the Regions and the European Commission. In Belgium, air policy is a competence of the Regions that collect the data and report it through CELINE, not Céline Fremault but the Interregional Environment Cell. The federal government supports regional measures and is taking important steps in terms of air quality, despite limited skills (in mobility, taxation and product standards), by promoting a mobility budget. This first step is important and is complemented by other provisions that stimulate the use of electric bicycles. As a member of the Infrastructure Commission, you are also fully aware of the effort made in the framework of the Transport Plan 2017-2020, which aims to strengthen the suburban offer around the major cities and to optimize connections, particularly in Brussels. These progressive measures must lead to a change in behaviour, hopefully, and a greater use of soft mobility and public transport. As you know, Minister Bellot wants the RSP to be finalized as quickly as possible so that users can benefit from capacity building. These measures will have to be supplemented by those of the Regions. I also welcome the willingness of my colleague to meet regularly with his regional colleagues, with a view to achieving an integrated approach to mobility policy. Collaboration and collaboration between entities are essential to solving these problems in our small country. It is also with the aim of taking this issue into account that I carry out my work of full and regular consultation with the Regions in the framework of the energy pact, the national debate on the carbon price and the 2030 National Energy Climate Plan. I call this work complete, because it is open to all walks of life. Within the framework of product standards, my department also supports the efforts of the Regions through the regulation of non-road mobile machinery, which we mentioned in the previous reply. The European rules are strictly implemented by my department. The third level of requirements has been in place since 2016 and my administration will carry out the first checks this year. With regard to the use of wood as a heating fuel, it is interesting to note that this alternative fuel combustion method has become one of the first contributors to our particulate emissions, together with coal. However, Belgium has adopted legislation to lay down the requirements for pellets of wood intended to supply non-industrial heating appliances. The aim is to be more ambitious than the European regulation on the subject. Finally, for heating appliances, we are in the third phase of implementation of the Royal Decree of 12 October 2010, which regulates the minimum efficiency requirements and the levels of pollutant emissions from solid fuel heaters, published in the Belgian Monitor on 24 November 2010. The Royal Decree entered into force at the end of November 2016 and controls in this area have intensified over the last three years. With this in mind, we will continue to examine regional air pollution reduction requests, where the activation of federal jurisdiction could be more effective. In this connection, for the transposition of the new National Emission Ceilings Directive (NEC), we are examining the possibility of a cooperation agreement with the Regions to define the federal measures to be implemented by 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u35	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive and comprehensive response. It is clear that the problem of air quality is far beyond the powers of the regions. Personally, in this area, I find that we have been a little too far away from regionalisation. We should have gone further towards Europeanisation because, unfortunately, pollution has no borders. On the other hand, parliamentarians must also lead by example. They should all come to Parliament by train and never by car. Parliament's parking lot should be abolished as a retaliatory measure! I am a little excessive, but I think that parliamentarians must lead by example, whether they are problems of intercommunal or pollution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u36	I suppose you're going to act with the parliamentarians!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u37	Madam President, to conclude before the holidays, let us talk a little about this subject. Minister, in 2014, the European Union adopted a new framework for climate and energy, which will be completed in 2030. For sectors not included in the emissions trading system, the EU 2030 target is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 30%. This objective applies to the European Union as a whole - each Member State must therefore participate in the effort. You will recall, Madam Minister, that I was asking you last February about the state of the consultations with the Regions to determine the distribution of efforts among the entities of the country. You replied: "With regard to the consultations on the distribution of efforts between the Federal and the Regions, I can inform you that the discussions have not yet begun, since no decision has been adopted at European Union level on national objectives. I hope that the discussions will conclude by June next, so that we can start work at Belgian level on the internal distribution of efforts for the period 2021-2030". Minister, it's July. As I follow you and pay attention to what you tell me, I come back to you to take stock of the state of the consultations that have taken place with the Regions with a view to allocating efforts among the entities of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u38	Dear colleague, you are following me very carefully and I thank you for that. As I said earlier, I believe that you participated in all the discussions this morning and you have already heard that the Environment Council was unable to reach a decision on a general approach on 19 June and that the tripartite dialogue between the Commission, Parliament and the Council is therefore postponed. The European discussions no longer focus on the objectives of the Member States but on their emission budgets during the entire period and on access to the flexibility instruments mentioned earlier, which I can give you if you are interested. Belgium is likely to have a target of 35% compared to 2005 for sectors that do not participate in the carbon market. Despite the absence of a final decision, I started with my regional colleagues, at the last National Climate Commission on 31 May, the process to achieve a distribution of efforts at Belgian level. I said between the lines earlier: all this is important. We already know what could happen and we are therefore trying to find the solutions to achieve the road in this area between 2021 and 2030. A draft terms of reference are being prepared to mark subsequent negotiations. This mandate, which will have to be adopted jointly by the National Climate Commission and CONCERE, aims to entrust a working group to carry out an analysis to be based on three axes. First, an update on the various ongoing work related directly or indirectly to the 2030 Climate – Energy objectives: the development of the 2030 National Integrated Energy – Climate Plan, discussions on the Energy Pact, the impact assessment of the Clean Energy for All package. The working group should formulate a proposal for a working method for the burden sharing 2021-2030 which will ensure an optimal and coherent articulation of all this work. I can tell you that with everything we have to do right now, there is an interesting funnel but very heavy to wear at the CONCERE level. However, it is good to do all this at the same time because all these issues are related. Secondly, a statement of the principles that led to the previous agreement. It is interesting to be able to learn from all the good practices and difficulties we have encountered in the work on the Burden sharing agreement 2013-2020. Thirdly, an exploration of the advisability of using an external actor to make proposals for the sharing of the Belgian climate – energy objectives for the period 2021-2030. Indeed, this subject is so complex that despite our know-how, made up together despite the difficulties, it may be interesting to have a look at external experts who help us formalize the way forward for a much longer period, with much greater efforts to be made. As I have already explained on several occasions, in the first period the efforts already made were recorded. I will, of course, also ensure that the work of the Senate on the Belgian intra-Belgian decision-making process on the allocation of climate effort is integrated into this exercise. I also had the opportunity to participate in an exchange with the CFDD on the work of the Senate and in the Senate, and an exchange on the closure of their work on this matter. As regards the timetable, the analysis in question is expected by 30 September 2017. The analysis I have requested from the CNC and the CONCERE on the three pillars is expected to be completed on September 30, 2017. In September, it's going to be terrible. This will be very interesting. I hope that we will have the results of the CONCERE work for the energy pact. We will have the proposal of the CNC and the CONCERE. We may also have a state of play on the national energy-climate plan, which we need to give the European Commission a draft in the course of 2018, as you know. All this aggregated will open our eyes. I think this is really very interesting because it will be the first time that we will have the opportunity to see all the subjects that I have received in a synoptic, inter-ordered and resonating way. I will, of course, be very attentive to the fact that this work must be fully coherent in the context of the ongoing consultation with the Regions on the energy pact and the national energy-climate plan. But in any case, all this work is carried out in consultation with the Regions through CONCERE. It is therefore this regular and permanent consultation with the Regions which, I believe, will enable us to succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u39	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I hear and rehearse the shared objectives, the consultations envisaged, the deadlines set. I hear that September 30 is a date that seems interesting. You can already note that at the beginning of October, I will come back to you to know the results, and above all to ensure, given the new political distribution of the federated entities, that what has been achieved in a positive way can remain so and possibly be amplified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic704x.u40	This concludes our oral question-and-answer session with you, Minister. It was the last before the parliamentary holidays.
