ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Özen's 18853 and 18854 are converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u2	Mr President, Minister, following the commemoration on 22 May 2017 of the fire in the Innovation in the Rue de Nieuwstraat in Brussels 50 years ago, two relevant books were published. Both books ask attention and questions about the current status of the Inno file in the Brussels Palace of Justice. In the documentary book Inferno by journalists Geert De Vriese and Frank Van Laeken mention: "There are strong rumours that the file would not be complete, that certain pieces, or even wholer folders, would have disappeared over the years. Stolen. Or simply lost. The key novel Happening by VUB professor emeritus Johan Swinnen is based on 20 years of historical research in all available files, including in the Inno file of the Brussels Justice Palace. We read: 'It is not too late,' but I am concerned that the official file on the Innovation fire is much thinner every time I visit the Justice Palace in Brussels. That's horrible to see. Justice remains a disgrace to our democracy. Further in the book he says: "In the judicial file at the Justice Palace in Brussels, I find a report of an interrogation on 10 July 1967 and a contact with Interpol on 2 August 1967. I read that they were children at home at the Commune Ché and that they were militant and welcomed the Chinese Cultural Revolution as a revolutionary example for the West. I'll order photocopies from the counter of all the pieces present. When I go into hiding again in 2014 in the Inno file, I notice that all these important documents and searches, including the newspapers and pamphlets, are no longer to be found in the file. Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions in this context. Do you have any insight into the list of visitors researchers, researchers, family members, lawyers... who have consulted the file since the end of the investigation, about the end of 1969, early 1970? Have any documents or files gone missing, or worse yet, stolen? If so, have there been any findings? How did this happen? Can you give me an overview of where the legal Inno file has been effectively stored since 22 May 1967, in order to give clarity and transparency to the researchers and the next of kin?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u3	Mrs Grosemans, the College of Attorneys General confirms to me that the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office occasionally receives requests for access to this judicial file, but that it does not keep a list of all persons who have consulted this file. On several occasions, researchers have been asked to inspect them for scientific purposes. This was allowed to them. I have no information on the management of the file since 1967. The file is before the French-speaking correctional court of first instance in Brussels and falls within the jurisdiction of the President of that court.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Well, there's still the thesis that an accident that would have caused fire, but that hasn't been fully cleared up yet. The thesis of an attack is still open. I think it is important to look at the actual inventory of the documents. I understand that this thesis can no longer be checked against the original inventory. Apparently at that time it was less close to inventorying all the pieces. I hope that this is going much better at the moment. I'll follow up on this. Summer recess is approaching. May I give you a tip: the book Happening is very relaxing, should you soon have some time to read. You can also wait for the movie to come out. I heard the movie rights were sold.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u5	Mr President, Minister, my question about the current inspection of criminal records is perfectly in line with Mrs Grosemans', albeit with some 40 years' delay. You know I've become a little more active as a lawyer in the last few months and years. I note that there is quite a lack of clarity among fellow-criminals about the plowing of the inspection of criminal records. Whether it is about the criminal records that are available for review before the courts or before the chambers of inquiry or other courts of inquiry, it does not really make any difference, there is no line in it. That is why I have the following suggestion, Minister. Would it be helpful to draw a line in that? Do you think you have a role to play in this as a minister or not? As far as I am concerned, if that line is drawn, it may be a line in which the new technologies can be implemented. How do you feel about that and how will you deal with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u6	Mr President, Mr Terwingen, the College of Courts and Courts confirms to me that in the past there has often been uncertainty about this matter at the Registry, as was also confirmed by my predecessor in 2012 following a question on the prohibition of the use of pens and hand scans in the consultation at the Registry. However, the College states that since the circular 6/2014 of the FPS Finance of 27 February 2014, these problems would largely be removed because they contain clear rules. In principle, the distinction should always be made between access to access, on the one hand, and access to access and copying, on the other. Only in the latter case will the scanning of pieces be allowed. However, the above circular provides that in criminal law the lawyers representing the defendants and the accused are always entitled to take extracts or copies of the documents themselves. This is evident in the light of the rights of the defence. The circular also provides, and I quote: "If no delivery is made by the Registrar, no duty shall be due, in particular where the copy is made by the person outside the Registry and the third party consults the documents himself and copies them with his own material at the Registry without recourse to the Registrar. This also applies to copies made by this third party by means of its own reading pen, hand scanner, smartphone, tablet or other similar apparatus. The College of Courts and Courts also declares its readiness to inform the Registrys of the Management Committees again with a view to a uniform working method. Finally, I would like to point out that once the electronic criminal record has been completed, consultation will be possible online, which will largely eliminate this problem. The pilot project under way in this context, whereby detained persons can consult the criminal record online from prison, is a first step in this direction. The project launched last week by the Bar Associations, where all lawyers are connected to the IT platforms of Justice via their central platform and a digital lawyer card, is another building block in this project. The adoption by the Special Council of Ministers on Security and Justice, of the creation of a database for police electronic police officers, which will then be digitally accessible to Justice, is also part of the construction of the digital criminal record. You will notice that we are trying, step by step, to create the digital justice system, which eliminates old-fashioned practical problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u7	Minister, it would indeed be a good thing if the College of Courts and Courts were to distribute this circular in one way or another, because, as has already been said, the Registrys do not seem to know it very well themselves. That's not a reproach, it's just a finding. I note your openness to everything that has to do with technological progress, and therefore also the fact that it should be possible for lawyers themselves to scan or photograph with their material without having to pay certain rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u8	Mr President, Minister, the Constitutional Court overturned last year the Criminal Transaction Act as expanded in 2011, considering that it violated the principle of equality and the right to a fair trial. Nevertheless, some courts have handed down judgements which accepted it within the limits set by the Court. The College of Attorneys General has just decided to allow it again, within the same limits. Minister, how many criminal transactions were finally made last year? What were the limits to be able to make a judgment allowing such a transaction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u9	Mr. Chairman, Ms.Jadin, at my request, I was most recently able to receive a report from the statistical analysts of the College of Attorneys General on the number of expanded criminal transactions concluded between April 14, 2011 and December 31, 2016. This report was forwarded to the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Kazakhgate. It does not allow for a breakdown over the various years, but it distinguishes three periods, namely the period from 14 April 2011 to 11 August 2011, the date on which the first law on reparation for the extended criminal transaction entered into force, the period from 11 August 2011 to 2 June 2016, the date on which the Constitutional Court found a violation of the principle of equality, and the third, the period from 2 June to 31 December 2016. For the period after 2 June 2016, 38 extended criminal transactions were proposed for an amount of EUR 2 714 435. An amount of EUR 2 684 435 million was paid, corresponding to 37 of these cases. The Attorneys General informs me that the June 2016 College of PJ directives have been scrupulously followed and that further negotiations have not been initiated. The transactions thus relate to cases for which negotiations had already been initiated. The Constitutional Court did not declare the principle of scope to be unconstitutional, but found a violation of the principle of equality and the right to a fair trial, since a criminal transaction, after the initiation of the public action, is subject to only marginal judicial review of the legality. The limits of the material scope of application have therefore remained intact, but the procedure in the law must be amended in order to include an effective judicial review of proportionality. The College of Attorneys General informs me that all the extended criminal transactions concluded after the judgment of the Constitutional Court have given rise to judgements in which the judge has ruled, in accordance with the considerations set out in that judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u10	Minister, thank you for your specific answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I do not want to take a personal position, but I would like to see constructive reflection on this sensitive issue of legalization of cannabis. In order to nourish this reflection, this is what we do elsewhere. Canada will make marijuana legal on July 1, 2018. It will not be the first State to do so. Uruguay did so in 2013 and several European states have done so in recent years. But the rules are not the same everywhere. In most U.S. states, the amount of cannabis you can buy or have on yourself is 28.5 grams. The federal capital Washington DC, is a special case since it can own up to 57 grams of cannabis, but its purchase and sale remain illegal. On the other hand, up to 28.5 grams of cannabis can be transferred to another person without payment. In Uruguay, 10 grams of cannabis can be purchased per week with a maximum of 40 grams per month. In Canada, the bill will allow the purchase and possession of 30 grams of dried cannabis or the equivalent of other products (fresh cannabis, liquid, concentrated). In the Netherlands, contrary to what might be thought, cannabis remains illegal, although its possession (less than 5 grams), consumption and sale in coffee shops are tolerated. Large-scale cultivation and distribution are prohibited. Small quantities of cannabis are decriminalized in Portugal and Spain, where cultivation is also permitted. In Switzerland, light cannabis can be sold and purchased, containing less than 1% THC (the average cannabis contains 15% THC). These different states seem to have taken precedence over certain conservatisms. Thus, the Belgian prohibition of this substance shows the same effect as alcohol in the USA in the 1920s, that of leaving the field open to Al Capone of hashish! And we know that some have ended up in terrorist attacks, like Abdeslam. Minister. In order to inform this reflection, could you tell me how many convictions over the last 20 years are directly related to the use, possession and trafficking of cannabis? How many people are currently detained for the same reasons? Over the past 20 years, how has the number of such detentions changed? What are the costs associated with these detentions? As part of this reflection, I will propose to ask your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, what are the financial and human costs in his department to combat cannabis trafficking. I would like to add that in Europe we find ourselves in a somewhat hypocritical situation. Unfortunately, we know very well that cannabis exists and is used by a large part of the population, especially by young people. Therefore, I am enraged to see these illegal traffickings that are not really prosecuted, because it is not easy, it must be admitted. Therefore, should we not move towards a system of legalisation, control and sales in official shops, which would also make it possible to better control the health problem? I recognize that the subject I am addressing with you today is vast.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that your questions relate mainly to figures, which makes it difficult to deal with an oral question. As regards both the number of convictions and the number of persons detained for possession and trade in cannabis, it is not, in fact, possible to provide figures or statistics on convictions. The registrations in SIDIS-suite do not allow statistics to be produced on infringements of the law on narcotics on the basis of specific substances. With regard to the cost of detaining persons convicted specifically for drug-related offences, it was not possible to provide figures. As far as the overall cost of drug policy is concerned, I refer to the scientific studies carried out in the past by the University of Ghent (Drugsbeleid in cijfers), the monitoring carried out every two years by the General Drug Policy Unit and the recent study on the social costs of this policy, a study called SOCOST. Finally, I would like to recommend reading the recent report of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction of 31 March 2007. There are some striking numerical comparisons, particularly with regard to cannabis use by European students and their American counterparts: 8% for some, 15% for others. An in-depth analysis of similarities and differences in drug use by students would be necessary to study the relative influence of social, contextual and regulatory factors on youth choice. The report also rightly stresses that, in the Member States of the European Union, approaches vary widely between more restrictive models and the tolerance of certain forms of personal consumption. In some countries, issues related to authorization for the production of cannabis for personal use and the supply of cannabis for therapeutic use are increasingly being discussed. On the other hand, the increasing number of treatment requests exclusively related to problematic cannabis use also highlights the danger of cannabis use with a steadily increasing THC content. I hope that these elements will be useful to you for further reflection and that the lack of some figures does not disappoint you too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u13	My will was to make you more aware of this issue. I believe that the lack of figures is an element detrimental to the resolution of the problem. I think we really need a better understanding of the situation. Personally, when I take the train to come to Brussels, I see on platform 1 of my train station, the young people who, without shame, roll their joints, smoke, which gives me a sweet atmosphere before showing up on the train, but more seriously, when I go to them to talk to them, they answer me that, anyway, consumption is allowed! I tell them that, first of all, there is some tolerance in private places and that it concerns adults. I point out to them that they are neither in a private place nor adults. They almost consider me an old crouton! I also think we have to take this problem with the body, because we have to realize that if we don't... It seems that we are like a paradigm, which does not allow us to realize certain things. On the one hand, we move relatively easily from so-called soft drugs to harder drugs, it is said! And on the other hand, when I tell the young people that a joint is equivalent to six to eight cigarettes, I look like an illuminated one. So it is extremely important to take care of this problem. I know that the Communities are also responsible in terms of prevention. It is therefore important to work together on this issue. Different European countries, not to mention Uruguay and Canada, have legislation that goes beyond our own. For young people today, the world is globalized: if it is allowed in Canada, they do not see why it would not be allowed in Belgium. That's what I really want to focus on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u14	Mr President, Minister, it is reported that at the start of the summer PDO campaign, several police zones are in danger of falling without blood test tubes. The cause is the termination of the order contract of blood test tubes through the FPS Justice in mid-April. Those who are heavily drunk or under the influence of drugs behind the wheel will be subjected to a blood test by the police. Some drivers are so drunk or under the influence of drugs that they can't blow anymore. Other drivers are unable to perform a normal breath analysis because they were injured after an accident. Blood samples analyse how much promille, how many drugs and what substances the driver has in his body. Since April 20th, the window contract through the Justice Department with which the police can order the blood test tubes has ended. A new framework contract is not yet in place and therefore, at the start of the summer PDO campaign, shortages in several police zones are imminent. How is it possible to fall without blood test tubes? How does the FPS Justice plan the necessary orders or is it a form of saving? How are the blood samples supposed to happen in the meantime? How is the evidence value of the findings made guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u15	Mrs Lambrecht, at the beginning of this year the FPS Justice has a meeting with the Permanent Committee of the Local Police since the framework agreement for the purchase of blood test tubes expired on 20 April. At the end of February the new public contract for blood test tubes was launched and by the end of April 2017 the tenders were expected. In order to bridge the period between the end of one assignment and the allocation of a new one for the supply of blood test tubes, on 8 February 2017, local police zones were called upon to order sufficient blood test tubes. On the basis of this call, 25 000 euros of blood test tubes were ordered for the public contract which expired on 20 April 2017. For the planning of these orders, therefore, justice depends on the needs of the police zones in the context of the stated road safety objectives. There can certainly be no spasmodic savings here. I have already mentioned in previous answers that road safety is a key policy element for me as Minister of Justice. At the end of April 2017, the FPS received the first tenders for the new window assignment. Following the analyses of these offers, including a requirement in administrative conformity, a technical analysis was requested from the National Institute of Criminal and Criminology on 15 May 2017. The Institute's report was received at the end of May. In the meantime, the dossier is being completed administratively so that the contract can be awarded by the beginning of July at the latest. As far as possible, police zones are asked to share the available stocks among themselves in the meantime. Pending the saliva analysis collectors, the blood result is the only one on which the police courts can base themselves for a conviction driving under the influence of drugs, according to Article 37a, § 1 of the Road Traffic Act. Without blood analysis, no conviction is possible, even on the basis of other findings. So the saliva test is not enough to convict. The same applies to alcohol if breath analysis is not possible. If there is no correct result of a breath analysis, a blood test is equally necessary in order to be able to convict. That blood test should be carried out on the basis of a blood sampling system provided for in Article 14 of the Royal Decree of 27 November 2015 implementing the Law on the Police on Road Traffic, as regards saliva analysis and blood testing when steering under the influence of certain psychotropic substances and the approval of laboratories. Only the blood test tubes complying with this Article 14 of the Royal Decree guarantee the evidence and ensure that possible procedural uncertainties and probative problems can be raised. What is possible is that someone is convicted of drunkenness. That is no longer having the permanent control of his or her actions, but not everyone who drives under the influence is by definition also drunk.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u16	Minister, I understand that the assignment will take place at the beginning of July. The question is, however, when will the new blood tube tests be sent to the police? In Bruges we have a very big problem. From the end of August we can no longer do drug tests, because everything will be used up. We will no longer be able to take action against people who are driving under the influence of drugs. The end of August is not long. Those people ask me when new blood tube tests will be available in Bruges and not when the assignment will be assigned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u17	Mr President, Minister, in many prisons there is a major problem of absenteeism of the penitentiary officials. The problem seems to be getting bigger again, as shown by the figures of 2016. On average, a cop, all grades combined, had a little less than 60 days of leave delay in 2016. In 2016, absenteeism amounted to 9,78 %, a new record. This vicious circle must of course be broken. It is, of course, important to identify the causes of these figures and to look for solutions. These include combating absenteeism. However, preventive measures must also be taken, for example against burn-outs. You have already been questioned about this by fellow Members of this House. In reply to written question No. 1571 you stated that there was no specific budget for the latter. First of all, what is your response to these new figures? How can these record figures be explained? Secondly, what actions have you taken in the past to address this problem? How are we doing on this? Thirdly, what additional actions will you take? What additional budget will you possibly provide for this? Fourthly, how will you deal with the great delay in leave that exists today? I told you, the leave delay is estimated at about 60 days. How are you going to deal with this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u18	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, on leave delays, I would like to point out that in 2016 there was a decrease of 18.6 % compared to 2014 and a decrease of 8.72 % compared to 2015. The absenteeism rate for the EPI, based on Medex figures, is 9,22 % for 2016 instead of 9,78 %. That percentage includes absences due to illness and accident at work based on encodings in the Medex application. The increase in the absenteeism rate compared with previous years is due inter alia to the fact that staff are on average longer absent. For example, in 2014, DG EPI staff were on average 24.1 days absent due to illness or accident at work, in 2015 it was 24.9 days and in 2016 it increased to 28 days. The rising absenteeism has also been observed in the private sector. In the context of prevention and reintegration in the workplace, penitentiary administration prepares the creation of a cell of well-being that will focus, among other things, on this phenomenon. In parallel, directives are also being drawn up to combat absenteeism and consultations are being held in a joint working group on this subject with representatives of the trade unions. Further consideration is now being given to which action points are feasible and which can be addressed as a priority. It is not yet clear whether additional budgets will be needed. In the meantime, leave delays should begin to decrease as we continue to recruit in prisons. An increase in staff, up to the level of what we call the frameworks working differently, combined with the actual working differently, should ensure that staff can take more leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u19	Minister, I believe that the situation, although it may be slightly better in some areas, is still slightly less favourable in other areas and is still serious. We stand for the summer and it could be a warm summer. If the problem persists, this can of course lead to trade union action and we know what its consequences are. Maybe that'll take police deployment again. I believe that this must be avoided. It seems important to me that all the actions you have listed should be taken seriously so that the problem can be resolved on the substance. Hopefully the figures will be much better next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u20	Minister, in the context of the implementation of Regulation 655/2014 establishing a procedure for the European Account Preservation Order in order to facilitate cross-border recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters, Belgium should designate an information body. This Regulation shall apply from 18 January 2017. In the meantime, many European forms have already been published in the Official Journal of the European Union, thus enabling third parties to be held in a bank account in another EU Member State in a harmonised manner from one EU Member State. The government agreement stated that access to the Central Banking Register would be examined in the framework of the bailiffs' attachment. However, this extension was unfortunately not included in the Programme Act of 1 July 2016. I have two brief questions on this, Minister. What information body do you have in mind when implementing Regulation 655/2014? In what way do you intend to ensure that domestic creditors can make as efficient protective and/or executive third party seizures as creditors using the above-mentioned Regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u21	Mrs De Wit, at the moment my services are finalising a preliminary draft law implementing and supplementing the regulation you are referring to, which establishes a procedure for the European Account Preservation Order to facilitate the cross-border recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters. Although this instrument, as you rightly point out, has been in force since 18 January this year, and although it is a regulation which in principle has a direct effect, a number of measures should be taken to implement and supplement this instrument. That is exactly what the said preliminary draft is intended to do. For example, this preliminary draft will specify who will act as an information body for our country as referred to in Article 4, 13th paragraph, of the regulation. Furthermore, this preliminary draft will pay due attention to the protection of the interests of the domestic creditor who is not in a cross-border case and who will not therefore rely on this regulation but who may be in competition with creditors who can rely on it. However, this does not mean that the preliminary draft is intended to completely reform the national proceedings on protective third-party attachment in line with the procedure laid down in this Regulation. This regulation does not seek to harmonise the national procedures for protective third parties' attachment, but rather exists in addition to the various national procedures of the Member States and, as it were, extends the creditor's arsenal of arms. This preliminary draft has already been discussed and examined with the relevant actors, in particular the National Chamber of Court of Auditors and representatives of the banking sector, and will shortly be submitted to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u22	It will therefore be submitted to the Council of Ministers. What exactly is the timing for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u23	Very soon, Mrs. De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u24	If that's at the pace of your potpourri... I believe you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u25	Two European directives and regulations have just been transposed. There is a little bit more delay than I had hoped, but it will be approved by the government before the summer. Then, of course, it still has to go to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u26	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u27	Mr Minister, this question was submitted in writing earlier, but unfortunately it was not answered within the deadline, which obliges me to put it orally, even if it concerns some figures. I have reports that in certain prisons the conditions of the archives are very poor. It would include Root, Antwerp and Merksplas. In addition, there would be a major archiving deficit in a number of places. First of all, do you know that archives of prisons are kept under bad conditions? If so, which one? Can you tell us exactly what the problems are? Secondly, what initiatives will you take to preserve the archives of the prisons in good, orderly and accessible condition, in accordance with the provisions of the 1955 Archive Act, supplemented by the provisions of the 2009 Archive Act? Thirdly, in what places is there a delay in archiving itself? How much behind is it? Fourthly, are you considering using archive teams specifically to eliminate the delay in processing the prison archives? If so, what timetable do you put in front of you and how many staff are you making available? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u28	Mr Van Hecke, apart from the prisons of Antwerp, Merksplas and Carrot, there are also problems in the prisons of Bruges, Dendermonde, Lantin, Sint-Gillis and Vorst. The archives are in a worse state, because storage facilities and premises do not yet fully meet the required standards and because in some prisons better follow-up was requested in the field of archive management. You will notice that this is mainly about the old prisons. For most of these projects, a replacement or renovation project is foreseen in the master plan, which will reduce the problems involved. In the prison of Antwerp a part of the archive has already been disinfected and it is further prepared to be transferred to the Rijksarchief. Later, the other prisons will follow. Within the available archive management budget, the prisons are provided with acid-free archive folders and boxes. Over the past two years, the Executive Board General EPI, in cooperation with the National Archives, also organised information sessions for the prisons on sustainable archiving and the preservation of archives in a correct way. In addition, a POC Archive has been appointed in each prison to systematically and correctly archive files and documents. I know archive delays are a general problem in most prisons. This gap varies from prison to prison, but we have budgetary constraints, which sometimes means that choices have to be made. However, everything must be done through the legislation in force. I would like to ask your understanding, Mr President, for the fact that this is sometimes carried out with some delay. Last Friday we concluded a protocol with the trade unions on the alternative working formula with an agreement for all prisons. Almost 500 employees have been recruited. So we are doing what we can, but once again it is slower than we wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u29	Mr Minister, to paraphrase a colleague, should the pace of potpourri laws be allowed, it would be a good thing. However, I assume that this is also a legacy of the past for a part.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u30	Mr Minister, I had originally tabled this question in writing because it asks for information that is not so easily given orally. However, this question was not answered in good time, so I have to put it orally. In analysing the evolution of population or overpopulation rates in prisons, it is sometimes said that the increasing number of detainees in recent years is due to the heavier prison sentences imposed by courts and courts. The question is, however, whether there is evidence that this is indeed the case. Minister, we all know that it is not only your ambition to replace Book I of the Criminal Code, but also to start work on Book II shortly. As a function of that, it seems interesting to me to check whether there are indeed so many more heavier prison sentences. I would therefore like to put the following specific questions to you. How many custodial sentences over five years, in whole or in part with delay, have been handed down annually by the courts and courts since 2000? What conclusions do you draw from these figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u31	Mr Van Hecke, although it is not possible, as part of an oral question, to carry out an in-depth analysis of the custodial sentences and the penalties in recent decades, I have been able, on the basis of the sentencing statistics, to obtain figures for the sentences of more than five years. I would point out that, under Article 8 of the Law of 29 June 1964 on the suspension, postponement and probation of sentences for one or more main prison sentences of more than five years of imprisonment, no delay can be granted in the execution of the sentence, in part or in full. Indeed, the figures for the number of sentences of five years or more since the year 2000 appear to be slow but certainly rising: from 926 in 2000 to 1 626 in 2016. Especially in 2004 and 2011, increases of more than 10% are noticeable. However, these figures should show some caution with regard to the delay in the registration of the criminal record. To draw conclusions from these figures without a substantive analysis of the files is dangerous as it reflects not only the punctuality of the court, but also the increase in the number of criminal provisions and the legislator's activity to increase certain levels of punishment. Nor do the figures give a real picture of the execution of the sentence. As you have said, the debates on criminality, the measures of punishment and the specific criminal definitions will have to be brought to the fore in the wake of the new Book II of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the figures. I agree with you that we should always be careful to interpret these figures, because there may be more legislation, delays in their registration, etc. Thank you for having been able to communicate these figures so quickly in the context of this oral question, which was submitted in writing more than a month ago. You'll have to correct that for a while. We will have an interesting debate on Book II. I do not know if we are already working on this, but perhaps it is interesting that if we get these figures, we also have an analysis of the causes and impact of more statements over five years. You have a point. What is the evolution of conditional release? A heaviness of punishment does not always say something about the duration or part of the term served. I do not know whether research and studies are already being carried out by the Department of Criminal Policy or other, but I think that when we start Book II, it can be useful for us to have an analysis of these figures. I do not know if you can tell me whether there are studies or studies in progress on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u33	Minister, a minor can stay in a youth institution until after his 18th birthday. In accordance with the rules on pro Deo, minors are given a pro-Deo attorney in files that concern them. However, that right shall lapse upon reaching the age of majority. If the young majority then wishes to appeal to a pro-Deo lawyer, but has his address at the parents' address, the parents' income is taken into account. Then a new problem may arise, namely that the contact with the parents is completely broken or that the parents are not available for any reason. Is it possible to still grant the right to a pro-Deo lawyer for those specific cases? If so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u34	Mrs Lambrecht, I refer to the Royal Decree of 18 December 2003 laying down the conditions for the full or partial free of charge of second-line legal assistance and legal aid. In fact, the minor enjoys an irrefutable presumption of insufficient means of subsistence under Article 1 (4) of the Royal Decree, which means that he or she is fully free of charge, irrespective of the specific situation in which the minor finds himself. The minor who has grown up and who appears under the Youth Protection Act for facts committed during the minor's childhood is considered by the Legal Assistance Offices as a minor and will therefore continue to enjoy the irrefutable presumption. From the age of 18, the right to legal assistance must be assessed by the Legal Assistance Office on the basis of the usual criteria. The Legal Assistance Office has an appreciation margin on a case-by-case basis and may take into account, on the basis of evidence, the particular situation of the adult who lost contact with the parents. Finally, if the adult is dominated with the parents, but his or her interests are contrary to those of the parents, the income of the parents is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u35	Minister, recently you rightly announced with pride the renewed call for questioning by the judge on a child's level. We can only welcome this. In practice, documents such as court letters, subpoenas and summons to justice continue to go out in a horrible official style. Non-legally trained people, and in my opinion they constitute a very large part of the population, get neither head nor tail. For convenience, it is said that they should consult a lawyer, but that is not our position. In our opinion, justice should provide a service to people and therefore use it as a language. What initiatives have you already taken, or will you take in the future, to meet these basic requirements of trust in Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u36	Mrs Lambrecht, I share your concern that language should be used wherever possible intelligible in order to ensure effective access to justice for those seeking justice. This is an objective to which I, as Minister and Ambassador of Lovely Helder, a Radio 1 project that wants to encourage clear communication, also want to contribute in concrete terms. Moreover, it is in that sense that I recently revised the model form for the invitation to be heard for minors over 12 years of age, as you have also mentioned. These minors are particularly vulnerable and need to understand the consequences of their interrogation in civil matters. This is also why minors were directly involved in the drafting of the new model letters and why they gave their opinion on the information to be contained in these new letters and on the way in which they should be drawn up. It is not only in direct communication with the seeker that clear and clear language is important. The final decisions of the judge must also be clear and clear. A working group on legibility of judgments and judgments is currently examining ways to better structure and make the judicial decision more readable. Finally, this objective of clear communication is also a focus of attention in the context of the reform of basic legislation. This legislation is often the source from which the judge leaves. In my policy paper, The leap to law for tomorrow, I point out that clear and clear legislation is essential for legal certainty. The aim of this reform is therefore to establish a language which, although accurate and coherent, should be as easy to read and understand as possible. An effort will be made to avoid archaic language as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u37	Minister, I am glad that you share our concern. You know that, but I would like to point out that people over the age of 12 often find it very difficult with difficult words, such as the word coherent in your answer to me. These are sometimes obvious words for us, but not for everyone in society. Therefore, I can only argue that this working group should include legibility of judgments and judgments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u38	Minister, for the victims, especially for minors, but also for adults, sex is often a very painful exercise. Often they are called up several times to appear before the court and the wounds are reopened. They also see their personal data listed openly and openly with regard to the offender, which can undoubtedly create an additional psychological burden. My question is therefore very brief, Minister. Do you see an opportunity to better protect the personal data of victims in sexual acts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u39	Mrs Lambrecht, I understand your concern, but protecting the identity or personal data of victims in criminal proceedings is difficult to reconcile with the defendant's right of defence and the right to a fair trial. The charge against which the accused must defend himself must specify in concrete terms the date, the place, the injured person and the elements of the crime, if not an obscuri libelli. Besides, the perpetrators of sexual abuse are often already familiar with the victim. Victims should not be required to attend the hearing but may be represented by a lawyer. If they do wish to be present, they can always be assisted by specialised services including the Victim Home Service of the Justice Houses. In the event of threats or new threats, the Justice or Police may take the necessary measures to protect the victims and a new investigation may lead to prosecution and trial.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u40	Thank you, Minister. I understand that there are not really new plans in the pipeline to deal with this in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u41	Mr Minister, according to information recently published in the press, two additional compulsive players, both from Wallonia, are quoting you in the Brussels Civil Court and demanding damages in the amount of 120,000 euros, because they were able to continue playing despite the fact that they were on the blacklist of the gambling commission. This brings their number to three today. Indeed, this new case echoes my oral question which, this time, addressed the case of a compulsive player who demanded damages from you in the amount of 65,000 euros for the same reason. Following your answers, other questions appeared to me, such as the following. What control has been exercised in this situation? As part of the blacklists, how were these people able to access these sites? Now you are facing three civil proceedings for a total of 185 000 euros, because the Excluded Persons Information System (EPIS) has loopholes if the encoding is not carried out in accordance with the rules. I therefore come back to you with the following questions. In your answer to my oral question, you said: "Currently, the National New Player Registry number can only be checked in packages twice a year. I envisage that the link between the National Register and the application for registration will now be made immediately, in real time. The gambling committee will shortly be introducing a budget file in order to achieve this objective. An amount of 80,000 euros per year will be required." Within what time frame and within what time frame do you intend to put your goal into practice? From the moment EPIS is limited to casinos and ATMs and their online equivalents, including online bets, how will you monitor betting agencies, bookstores, lottery games (on-line or not) and effectively fight against illegal gambling? Do you plan to cooperate at European level in order to deter some players, denying their addiction to the game and often excluded at the request of third parties, from going to play abroad? What are the means used for prevention campaigns and monitoring of addicted players? What is the status of the adoption of royal decrees concerning virtual betting and advertising?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u42	Mr Kir, the correct identification is planned for the end of 2017 but depends on the progress of budgetary and administrative authorisations for the various specifications. The law of 10 January 2010 did not provide for EPIS systems to apply to betting agencies, bookstores and the National Lottery. It is my intention to organize a recording of betting agents in fixed betting agencies. In this project, access will still be possible from the age of 18, except for games designated as virtual being. The age of 21 will be applied through an ID card reader who will communicate only age. For bookstores and the sale of betting products offered by the National Lottery, the responsibility for age control rests with the betting distributor. If the betting candidate refuses to present his or her identity card, the distributor must refuse the bets. For the other products of the National Lottery, there is a regulation which falls within the competence of the Minister who has the National Lottery in its powers. In order to combat illegal internet offers, draft royal decrees have been notified to the European Commission by my predecessor. They will soon be submitted for consultation within the government. It is my intention to strengthen them and submit them to my colleagues who are competent for gambling. My priority at the moment is the supervision of new games and the limitation of advertising. As soon as this first package has been completed, I will tackle the organisation of the internet gaming market. In the past, the gambling commission had repeatedly proposed to organize an International Player Protection Day with France and Switzerland. Their level of protection in Belgium is much higher than in neighbouring countries: minimum age of 21 for access to casinos and playrooms, establishment of EPIS, etc. These measures are unknown abroad. In France, for example, the limit for access to casinos and playrooms is 18 years. Prohibition of access is only possible after an investigation by the police. In France and Germany, online casino games are prohibited. In the Netherlands, freedom of online gambling will soon be the rule. Under these circumstances, cooperation with neighbouring countries is no longer on the agenda. I would add that prevention campaigns and the monitoring of players fall within the competence of the Communities. As I have just mentioned, the royal decrees on virtual betting and advertising are part of a legislative and regulatory package that will be submitted before the summer holidays to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic690x.u43	Minister, thank you for your full answer. After I read it again, I'll come back to you.
