ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, according to information reported by VTM Nieuws and taken over by the free.be of 19 July, a hacker managed to hack the Flemish website of medical appointments Digitale Wachtkamer and thus obtain the e-mail addresses and telephone numbers of half a million Belgian patients. No medical records were stolen but the reasons for the physician's request for consultation. Indeed, Digitale Wachtkamer is a website through which patients can make an appointment with the general practitioner. Approximately 550,000 to 660,000 people use this platform. In an e-mail, the pirate asked the manager for 42 bitcoins, or 85,000 euros. The company filed a complaint with the Computer Crime Unit of the Federal Police. Secretary of State, can you give us more details on this cyberattack? Could an investigation be conducted to identify the perpetrators? Have any faults been identified in safety and thus exploited by the hacker? If so, which ones? What are the very concrete initiatives taken by the competent authorities to prevent and stem the effects of such attacks? Have people whose personal data have been stolen been notified? In what time frame and by whom? What remedies do they have?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u2	Kir, the hacking of Digitale Wachtkamer – a platform on which patients can make an appointment for a visit to their family doctor – makes it clear that companies and organisations really need to prepare and better protect their data. I stress that social security data, which have been strictly protected, have not been hacked. For the time being, the investigation into the exact circumstances of piracy and its scope is in the hands of the Federal Computer Crime Unit, which is already investigating the criminal acts of piracy. The Privacy Commission also received complaints and initiated an investigation into the protection of the platform. As a first step, it should be made clear that, as Belgian legislation currently stands, data leaks in the telecom sector are covered by a legal obligation to notify the IBPT and the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. This will change because, with the new legislation (GDPR), each data theft must be reported to the Privacy Commission within 72 hours. The Privacy Commission has initiated an investigation with the controller of the site in question as part of its mediation mission and as a result of various complaints from citizens. As a result of this investigation, the Privacy Commission notified the site controller of the need to better protect the site and the site agreed. They still reacted very quickly. After detection of the leak, a problem was reported to the Privacy Commission, CERT and the Computer Crime Unit of the Federal Police. Clients have also been informed of this. In addition, they were asked to change their password. Nevertheless, the hacker managed to send an e-mail to some patients as well as their respective doctors. According to the person in charge, the theft of data does not, strictly speaking, relate to health information, but rather to the management of appointments. This certainly does not diminish the seriousness of this case. A few days after the data leak, a file controller asked users to change their passwords. The Privacy Commission also informed the persons concerned that they could, in accordance with the civil procedure, bring an action for liability against the website. The Centre for Cybersecurity in Belgium, for its part, is responsible for carrying out measures to prevent computer attacks, for example by developing practical guides for SMEs – this is already the case – and carrying out awareness campaigns and establishing models of liability clauses – the latter work is still under way. I will conclude by stating that the most recent GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) obliges each party using personal data to strengthen the protection of personal data and, to this end, to get in order with this new regulation. In order to avoid problems in the ability to inform the authorities within 72 hours, the body responsible for conducting investigations was reformed last week by a vote of the parliament. It now has more means of action and more facilities to investigate. Above all, his power to punish has been considerably extended. For this reason, we have also strengthened the capacity of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. The new measures taken will provide substantial responses to better protect and combat this phenomenon. Do you know when the investigation on the person who found the password will be completed? If he did it once, he's likely to do it again – perhaps he already did it at the moment I'm talking to you. Can results be expected in the near future at the Computer Crime Unit? Do we have a rapid reaction capability?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u4	Procedures are already in place within the Computer Crime Unit, but also within the Privacy Commission, giving them the opportunity to react fairly quickly. Computer Crime Unit has already opened an investigation. Given the secrecy of the investigation, I do not know where it is and what the conclusions are. I find such an incident very serious. You're right. It also gives me the opportunity to say that it is the responsibility of organisations like Digitale Wachtkamer to better protect this type of data. These are sensitive data. For this reason, we raise awareness among SMEs and give them the tools to better protect their own data. It's the first thing to do. I do not understand the technologies used by these hackers, but the Computer Crime Unit has experts who know very well how to manage such people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, according to information published in the press on 7 October last, Minister Jambon would like the databases of the 500 radars installed along regional highways and roads, as well as intelligent cameras in the local police areas, to be connected, which would make it possible to trace movements. However, the Privacy Commission is critical of this project. The Commission's doubts relate to the retention of data from cameras that recognise license plates. Car locations and identifications are maintained for one year, including in technical databases at the local level. In her view, if one keeps such data for a year, both at the federal and local level, and the databases are paired, de facto patterns of displacement can be identified. This has an impact on privacy. Secretary of State, could you give us your views on this project? What about the statement made by the lawyer of the Commission de la protection de la vie de la privée, who appeared in the press and referred to mass surveillance? This view is clear and clear. Do you share it? Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u6	Mr Kir, indeed, a bill was passed at first reading in the Council of Ministers on 20 July. It allows the creation of a database of data from smart cameras, federal police and police areas. The Privacy Commission issued a rather negative opinion. We have indicated in the Council of Ministers that there is a need to strike a balance between the introduction of innovative technologies and the protection of privacy. We know that there are many innovations in new technologies. These can help us to improve security, but we must always maintain respect for fundamental rights and find a balance. This balance is never perfect. The Privacy Commission is doing so, but it is also my duty to constantly question, through events, how to find that balance. That is why we will take this opinion of the Commission into account. A debate will take place within the Council of Ministers in order to implement and implement this opinion as fully as possible. However, the project approved by the government already provides for the guarantee of a judge as long as the data have been collected for more than a month. Some elements are already in the law and tend to approach this balance. The judge and hit systems are involved, as are strict data access conditions. This is not just a collection of data that everyone would have access to. Access conditions are strictly regulated. Abuse is punishable, and we will further strengthen that aspect. In addition, access will always be limited in time, with a maximum of 12 months. We have already limited the storage of this type of data. For me, it remains absolutely necessary to put in place safeguards and strict protection and security systems, particularly with regard to access. As Secretary of State for the Protection of Privacy, I work to maintain a balance between the principles of citizen protection, the fight against serious crime and data protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your very consistent answers. As you said, it is not easy to find a balance in this type of situation. For example, at the municipal level, a police officer has access to an individual's national file as part of an open file. It cannot consult the national register of each citizen without this being justified. If he did, he would have to be held accountable to the Police College or to another authority and he would be in danger of being convicted. I am thinking in particular of the inspectors who unfortunately consult the files for bad reasons. When you talk about strict conditions for access to the data, I assume that these data will be accessed by authorized persons, but that not all services will be able to access it. The Commission points to the problem of data displacement. I suppose she would like a guard to be found on a technical level. Having said that, as you have made clear, I imagine that you will commit yourself to defending the Commission's opinion at the next Council of Ministers, the aim being to find that balance which, as has already been said, is not simple to find, but which is nevertheless indispensable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u8	Questions Nos 20472 and 21505 by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, No 20555 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and No 20800 by Mr Top are transformed into written questions. Question No 21890 by Mr Janssen is postponed. Questions Nos 19442 and 21574 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions. Mr Clarinval is still retained in the Conference of Presidents and Mr Calomne is still retained in committee. We're waiting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u9	Mr President, Secretary of State, the World-Check database is used by banking and financial institutions around the world, including in our country. In concrete terms, it would be a database containing millions of names of people whose profile is considered sensitive to varying degrees and which banking operators might not wish to count among their customers. De facto, being included in this list may, in some cases, create complications for any prospective customer who wishes to open a bank account or obtain credit. In our country, nearly 16,000 people are registered in the World-Check database. They are both anonymous citizens and more well-known personalities, such as a magistrate at the Ghent Court of Appeal, a former Red Devil player or a former federal minister. This compilation of data is also of an inquisitive nature: next to individuals without motive are also taken up by other persons who have been charged or convicted by the courts for acts of paedophilia, terrorism or serious banditry. This list is calling. When asked about this, the President of the Privacy Commission responded: "As a Belgian commission, we are certainly competent when financial institutions in our country use this data bank. We will discuss this with the banks concerned, because banks must notify their customers if they use World-Check, since it is information they have not received directly from their customers. Most of them are not informed in any way that they are included in this database." On the part of the Belgian banking agencies, the use of this database is clearly commonplace, as evidenced by a KBC official quoted in the press who says: "We confront our list of customers every day with the World-Check database to check whether some of them are subject to sanctions". Since World-Check is a private system designed and managed abroad, a number of questions arise about the overlap and articulation of legal privacy standards. For example, in order to determine whether or not this list is included, and therefore for what reasons, the manager should be contacted directly, who does not inform the principals concerned. In addition, any legal dispute leads to very lengthy and cumbersome procedures, including at the international level. Mr Secretary of State, how do you view the existence of this database, in the light of Belgian legislation and the testimony of the President of the Privacy Commission? Is there any room for thought, in direct synergy with your colleague in charge of finance, to encourage Belgian banking agencies to clarify their customer verification methodology? Is there a mechanism already in place to address this issue? According to the information at your disposal, do you know whether federal government agencies are also using the World-Check database? If so, which and why? Finally, is it planned to bring this matter to the European level so that a concerted solution can be found to the existence of private databases, the content of which questions in terms of legality and the protection of privacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u10	Mr Calomne, you know that World-Check is a British company that has created a data bank to help companies identify their customers' risk profile. She herself stated that, each month, 20,000 new profiles were being developed and that she was updating 40,000 of them. Such databases are useful in helping financial institutions comply with the Money Laundering Act 1993, which requires them to identify the risk profile of their clients. The data are collected from official lists of those sanctioned by European, American, Canadian, Swiss or Australian administrations, but are also collected through the media. World-Check claims to analyse more than 11,000 journalistic sources over a ten-year period. Its databases are therefore based on public information. We have contacted the Privacy Commission to inform it that the persons concerned expressing doubts about the processing of their data may ask it to carry out the necessary checks with the banks. As such, an investigation is already under way into a particular bank. In response to your second question, I can inform you that the Privacy Commission also recalls that, in its May 24, 2017 opinion on the money laundering bill, it listed certain principles that financial organizations must adhere to when using data banks such as World-Check. Thus, customer profiling is allowed and the limitation of transparency may be legitimate, but banks remain responsible for the accuracy and relevance of the different data. In other words, they must provide general information, in particular to inform the persons concerned that they can contact the Privacy Commission to verify their data. As part of the entry into force of the new European Regulation in May 2018, banks will also have to organise a Privacy Impact Assessment of their use of the WorldCheck. Clearly, they will have to carry out two checks. At the moment, I do not have any information on the use of this type of databank by the public sector. Finally, the new European Data Protection Regulation organises a coordination procedure between the respective authorities of the Member States of the European Union. Where a company processes data in several of them, as is the case for World-Check, and the persons registered file complaints in their own State, the various data protection bodies are requested to coordinate with the one depending on the country in which the company's principal place of business is located, with a view to determining a common response to the complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u12	Secretary of State, a recent survey by the Union Neutral des Indépendants shows that 18% of entrepreneurs confronted with criminal acts, share images of online surveillance cameras, on social networks, or display images in their trade. The dissemination of such images often provides useful information, dissuades potential criminals and alerts other traders. However, from a legal point of view, it is forbidden. The Privacy Act does not allow contractors to broadcast online and print images of robberies or robberies. In the Netherlands, a bill provides that images of shoplifting, burglary or vandalism may be published on social media if four conditions are met: a statement has been filed with the police; the images are sufficiently clear; the culprit is not known to the victim; and no person other than the alleged culprit is recognizable on the images. Mr Secretary of State, could this Dutch bill be an idea in order to allow the printing and the lawful dissemination of images of ill-intentioned individuals? Would you be prepared to draft a bill so that this ban on sharing offline and online images would be abolished under certain conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u13	Thank you for your question. As you say, 18% of entrepreneurs facing criminal events share the images of surveillance cameras on social networks. We are all the more aware of this because we often see these images also appearing in our own time lines. First of all, the police have to react. Moreover, for me, respect for privacy is a fundamental right. Even if an individual commits an offence, his or her right to privacy must be respected. Images from cameras should be considered personal images and the Privacy Act should be enforced. In the case where the images show the offence, they are also sensitive data of a judicial nature which enjoy additional protection according to article 8 of the Law on the Protection of Privacy. When these images come from a surveillance camera, the law of 21 March 2007 regulating the use of surveillance cameras is also applicable. For me, the disposition of images must remain a prerogative of the authorities, unless the prerogative of the police and justice in research and prosecution is waived. Are we going to abandon the search for offenders to everyone? Do we want a system where premium hunters replace the police to search for criminals? For me, this must remain the prerogative of the authorities, also as to whether or not they can be distributed. Even in the Netherlands, the conditions are not unanimously considered sufficient to protect privacy. So there too, there is a debate, the aim being that the decision must be able to go back to the authorities. In my view, it is also essential to provide adequate safeguards in order to avoid an arbitrary system or certain abuses. I am well aware that many people are facing breaches of the law. But it is up to the police and the authorities to decide whether or not it is necessary to distribute such images.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u14	Minister, thank you for your clear answer. Control is indeed necessary to avoid abuse. But I have the feeling that the dissemination of this information via social networks under the control of the police would be a plus. This could, for example, make it possible to solve a whole series of offences, but also to find a solution to facts that are often very shocking to the victims. The Dutch project may not offer enough guarantees. But one could imagine that the police broadcast messages on social networks by encircling themselves with the necessary guarantees, messages that could be shared by street traders. In my opinion, this lead could be investigated. Indeed, such a method should be able to be used to resolve these offences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u15	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the press has recently revealed that some 15 Belgian hospitals have sold data on their patients to a multinational specialised in the treatment of medical information. The Commission evaluates the sources and draws useful analytical results, for the marketing of pharmaceutical producers as well as health equipment. The question of the legality of such practices arises since medical data are, in principle, considered confidential. Their treatment and exchange must be the subject of a strict and codified declaration under both the law and the regulations in force. However, according to the media, this multinational could not provide sufficient guarantees on the anonymisation of databases recycled for commercial purposes. When asked about this, the Vice-Chair of the Privacy Commission said that some practitioners could even be identified "because there are not hundreds of them in some specialties". While one can understand the value of aggregation of anonymized data for scientific research purposes, e.g. to treat diseases such as Alzheimer's, it is difficult to subscribe to these practices without a guarantee of privacy and essentially lucrative scope. Mr Secretary of State, according to the information at your disposal, what is the situation in Belgian hospitals with regard to the resale of patient data? Can you confirm the facts as they were reported in the Belgian media? What measures have you adopted to safeguard the interests of patients in terms of data protection but also of the limitation and strict marking of the resale of medical records?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u16	Mr President, thank you for your question. You know very well that medical data are sensitive data that require the highest standard of data protection. Measures are already being taken to protect patients, including those set out in the Privacy Act of 8 December 1992. In particular, the further processing of patient data must be compatible with the purposes of collecting the initial data, provided that the purposes are determined, explicit and legitimate. It is therefore already provided for in the law. Further processing for historical, statistical or scientific purposes, in particular, shall not be deemed incompatible when carried out in accordance with certain conditions. This implies that personal data must be coded by the controller or by an intermediary organisation, provided that it is impossible to work with anonymous data. Care must also be taken to ensure that anonymous or coded data can never be linked, even indirectly, to a patient or individual doctor. It is also prohibited to carry out acts designed to decode coded data in order to transform them into personal data. In principle, the processing may not relate to unencrypted personal data unless expressly agreed by the person concerned. In order to ensure the confidentiality of the data and the security of its processing, each controller must take the appropriate technical and organisational measures necessary for the protection of personal data. In particular, hospitals must appoint a safety advisor to assist the person responsible in the day-to-day management of all aspects of information security. Any person responsible for the treatment shall be required to transmit the necessary information to the person concerned and shall have the responsibility to act in accordance with the stated principle and to protect the privacy of patients as much as possible. Apart from the application of these rules, there is obviously a question of ethics in general. For the time being, it is impossible for me to assess precisely and with certainty the situation in all hospitals. In addition, a new European regulation is about to apply in this area by May 2018. Each hospital and organization must therefore study how to get in order with these new regulations. Round tables are being set up for this purpose. Contacts within the Privacy Commission are made with regard to standards and how to apply them. It seems to me that an effort is still to be made, particularly in this sector, because medical data are very sensitive data. Each hospital must itself implement this GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) as strictly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. Indeed, medical and personal data are particularly sensitive and deserve the highest standard of protection. In the media, information on this subject could be a legitimate source of emotion. As you indicate, even if coded, it is important to be careful that this information cannot be linked to individual patients in particular or to practitioners. I hear your answer well and understand the individual responsibility and ethics of each hospital. But it is important to reassure Belgian citizens about the processing of their medical data and their confidentiality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u18	Secretary of State, thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u19	Minister, recently it became known that Beveren's prison has brought in an employment project for its detainees. The Cellmade administration allows prisoners to be employed as a call centre employee. From their cells they can conduct satisfaction surveys. With the few hundred euros they can earn per month, they can compensate their victims or make some small purchases within the prison. Certain safeguards are essential for such work. It goes without saying that the inmates who work as a call center employee cannot call the outside world at random. That there is a real danger to this, is demonstrated by the problems there were with Prison Cloud in Beveren prison in 2014. Inmates found a back door in that system to e-mail freely with the outside world. In La Dernière Heure on 25 October it was stated that the prison of Marche-en-Famenne was long in the running to win this project. In addition to practical problems, the repeated strikes in the Walloon prison proved to be a reason to opt for a Flemish prison. By opting for a Flemish prison there could be more continuity in the work. Minister, how is the call centre project in Beveren prison going in concrete terms? What safeguards are in place so that prisoners do not make random calls themselves or so that the conversations do not get out of hand? Can you confirm that this project was eventually assigned to a Flemish prison at the expense of a Walloon because of the number of strikes in the Marche-en-Famenne prison? Has there been any other work projects for detainees in recent years that have not been allocated to a Walloon prison because of the number of strikes? If so, which projects were involved? What was the result of this? Where are these projects being carried out? What have been the number of strike days and absences of the penitentiary staff over the last three years? I liked to be divided by prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u20	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, the calls are made via Prison Cloud, the highly secure digital platform available in Beveren prison. The system does not allow access to external websites or other data. That's been extensively tested. The company developed special software tailored to the safety needs that exist. The prisoner can only call the numbers indicated in the list. The numbering data is also masked. There are also other safety buffers built in. For example, a conversation that lasts longer than previously measured will light a red light in the system. After each question the question disappears in the answer on the screen so that the prisoner cannot return to previous information. The back office regularly eavesdropping to check the conversations. There will also be mistery calls where people from Cellmade or the firm are called with a fictional script. If anomalies are suspected or detected, the system may be immediately closed by both the penitentiary administration and the company itself in the event of incidents. In reply to your second question, I can inform you that the call centre project is a direct offer to the prison in Beveren. It is not about the same center as the center that was planned in the prison in Marche-en-Famenne. In reply to your third question, it is not excluded that the strikes have deterred some companies from offering labour. However, we do not have any figures on this. Some contracts have been stopped because of the long strike. However, the cost is not known. In the event of strikes, punctual orders may be transferred to other establishments to ensure continuity. However, no major structural projects have shifted from Walloon to Flemish prisons. Fourthly, I make available to the secretariat of the committee the tables containing the requested statements of staff absences, whether due to strike or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u21	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is indeed important that these safeguards are there and that with Prison Cloud something does not happen again like the last time. I hope it works. For the rest, I look forward with great attention to the data you will provide. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u22	Question No 21478 by Mrs Özlem Özen is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u23	Minister, on the occasion of a recent press release, the Vice-President of the UPTIA Interpreter Association deplored the difficult working conditions that would prevail in the Brussels Court. Indeed, interpreters would refuse to work during evenings and weekends, because of this, and I quote one investigator: "The president of the court is the one who has to pay their bills, but he often cuts their weekend benefits by half or he doesn't pay them. If on Friday at midnight a drug or weapon deal is concluded and it must happen the next day, we will only know it on Monday at the earliest. The President shall be competent to check the notes of the interpreters. In recent times, he has planed night or weekend benefits at the week's rate, or they have not been paid. Now that our interpreters know that they may not touch anything for their Sunday work or as much as for a Monday, we can no longer find a great world to help us. We lose our chances of responding quickly, because crime doesn't stop on the weekend. On the contrary." Despite the independence of the judiciary and the strict respect for the separation of powers, this testimony calls into question the working conditions of the interpreters in that court. Minister, are you aware of this problem? If so, could you provide an update? What are the reasons for this situation? What measures have already been identified for better collaboration between professionals in the sector and the world of justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u24	Mr President, Mr Calomne, I am aware of the way in which the President of the Brussels Court of First Instance verifies the statements of costs and fees of interpreters working for the judges of his court. Every presiding judge or requesting magistrate has a duty to verify whether each cost of justice is justified. These controls are not only mandatory, but also necessary. However, they require adequate intervention that does not cause any delay in payment. The organisation of these controls must be ensured in accordance with the separation of powers. Having said that, I realize the problems encountered by interpreters working for the judicial authorities. That is why we have just published a quality manual aimed at improving the collaboration between the judiciary and the translators and interpreters it needs. The manual attempts to provide answers to practical questions that may arise. It provides a series of advice for a better organization that takes into account the wishes and difficulties of each. In order to meet the needs for information in the field, my department and the professional organizations of translators and interpreters will soon organize a study day on the application of the tariff and the national register.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u25	I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u26	Mr Minister, the 19 mayors of the Brussels Region have recently called the alarm about the closure of the registry of the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels. This was due to health and safety problems and to difficult working conditions for staff. The 19 Brussels agents expressed concerns about the risk of delays in the follow-up of cases and the increased workload for their police area. In doing so, they called for a quick solution. Clearly, the message has been well received since you announced, in consultation with your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, that the building called 'Pacheco', which is owned by the federal government, could serve as an alternative storage site for exhibits for a period of four years. At the outset, allow me to endorse this rapid announcement of a concrete solution that reflects the Government's constant effort and sense of responsibility in judicial matters. Minister, with regard to the development of this issue, could you give us the outline of the solution chosen? In concrete terms, what is the hosting capacity of the site? What is its level of security? What is the planned time frame for moving services? Do you confirm the announcement published in the press at the beginning of 2018? Finally, what about the work on the site of the French-speaking court of first instance? Thank you, Minister, for the answers you can give to these various questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u27	Mr Calomne, the building on the boulevard Pacheco was to this day home to the Royal Mint of Belgium. As you know, the last play was hit on October 23, 2017. For the moment, only the laboratory of the Royal Mint of Belgium will remain in the building. The rest of the building will be empty. Since valuables have always been stored on the site, the site is provided with adequate security features. The Royal Belgian Mint will systematically empty unused space for the storage of exhibits by the Brussels courts. A first phase is planned for the end of November 2017. An area of 600 square metres is already available to the Justice FPS. By mid-January 2018, a space of 370 square meters will still be recovered. The total area of the building is expected to cover the period 2018-2021. Until then, the final and structural solution for the storage of exhibits must be a fact. With regard to the work in the courthouse, Place Poelaert 1, the judicial services concerned are currently being consulted on the final solution to be applied to contaminated archives. As soon as a final decision can be made, the premises where the subsidence has occurred can be emptied and the Régie des Bâtiments will have to start the repair work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u28	Minister, thank you. The second part has already been discussed this morning with the Minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments as part of the policy statement. This will be done within the framework of the more comprehensive renovation of the interior of the palace. But the short- and medium-term solution that has been found deserves to be welcomed. It is pragmatic and should make it possible to continue to operate under the best conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u29	Question No 21601 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question. Question No 21759 by Mr Maingain is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament No 21776 by Mrs Van Cauter and No 21776 by Mrs Van Cauter and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mrs Smeyers' 21807
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u30	Mr President, Minister, at the end of March, the FPS Justice launched an open bid for telephone services in Belgian prisons, which was set as the date for the submission of tenders 11 July 2017. Recently it appeared that a new cell telephony system was already being developed before that date as part of what would be a pilot project in Mechelen prison. However, this prison is also part of the current tender request. In the meantime, Minister, has a firm been selected to arrange telephony in Belgian prison cells? If so, what are the conditions and when is the implementation expected? What does the pilot project on telephony in the cells in Mechelen's prison mean in concrete terms? For what reasons is a pilot project developed in prison when it is the subject of a general tender request at the same time? Can the company that implemented the pilot project in Mechelen also participate equally in the general tender application?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u31	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, first of all I can tell you that the procedure for the appointment of an external partner, an external firm for the installation of telephones in cells and the provision of telecoms services, is still ongoing, but is in a final stage. I expect that the dossier can be awarded at the end of this year, after which it can be implemented from 2018. The detailed terms and conditions for participation in and award of the contract are set out in the published handbook. For your questions 2 and 3, apart from the positive experiences with telephony in the cells in the new prisons, it was necessary to test the impact of cell telephony on internal operation and organization in a classic facility. The prison of Mechelen seemed appropriate for this purpose, especially as the size of this prison allowed for rapid implementation. The pilot project in this prison is a very limited project, called a proof of concept. Its purpose is to carry out a test over a short period of one year to gain more insight into the impact of cell telephony on internal operation and on the management of the facility. The evaluation of the effects on workload and security, by the fact that there should be no more movement of prisoners to accompany them to the telephone booths, is the main design of that project. To your fourth question, I can answer that every interested firm has access to the open, general tender application, including the firm to which the pilot project was awarded, as well as the other candidates consulted for this pilot project. The opportunities for obtaining this contract are equal for all participants and equal treatment is ensured by the provisions relating to the selection and award criteria, as set out in the handbook.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u33	Mr President, Minister, you recently concluded a cooperation protocol with FBI representatives in Brussels. Your government colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Jan Jambon, also co-signed the document. This partnership would aim to improve the exchange of information on suspects linked to terrorist cases between the Belgian and American security services. We can welcome this initiative, which strengthens the transatlantic link in the face of threats from criminal groups that want to spread terror, both in Belgium and elsewhere in the world. So, Minister, in order to take stock of the progress made on this issue, I would like to ask you the following questions. What exactly is the scope of the signed agreement? What commitments have been made by the various parties? What services are involved in strengthening this transatlantic cooperation? What types of data will be exchanged? What are the safeguards in terms of confidentiality? Finally, are service meetings scheduled on a regular basis to facilitate the implementation of the cooperation protocol?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u34	Mr President, Mr Calomne, I can tell you that what we have signed is within the existing framework. The basic instrument is the bilateral agreement of 20 September 2011 on police cooperation between Belgium and the United States. On this basis, the previous government has signed a memorandum of understanding with them on the exchange of information on persons suspected of terrorism. The latter text was already accompanied, at the time, by a confidential practical arrangement setting out certain arrangements for the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding. The document we have signed is not to adapt the bilateral agreement or the memorandum of understanding, but to the practical arrangement. This adaptation is an update to better address the foreign terrorist fighters problem. Given the confidentiality of this document, I cannot give you any further details. The mechanism remains unchanged, with the exception of certain technical aspects. The actor who is in contact with the FBI under this memorandum of understanding is the federal police. In accordance with this protocol, the two services are proactively exchanging information – i.e. without prior request. Such a spontaneous and structured exchange of information is obviously crucial in terms of combating terrorism. In this context, the FBI is a key partner. The Privacy Commission gave a favourable opinion. The data protection regime remains unchanged – as detailed in the Memorandum of Understanding and the bilateral agreement signed under the previous government. As I indicated, the mechanism is not new. Meetings have already taken place between partner services. Others will be held if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u35	Minister, thank you for your different answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u36	Joined Questions No 21574 by Mrs Jadin and No 22007 by Mr Blanchart are transformed into written questions. Question No 22006 by Mr Blanchart is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u37	Minister, this question was prompted by the recent riots in Brussels in which more than 20 police officers were injured. The lack of respect for law and order services in our capital seems to be becoming a social phenomenon. Book II, Title V, Chapter I deals with defamation and violence against public authorities. My question focuses on the follow-up by the Justice Department of P.V.'s made in connection with these crimes, namely defamation, violence or resistance to the police. With my questions I want to check for figures in the past period. How many pvs for defamation, beatings and resistance to the police were recorded per arrondissement in the period 2015-2017? How many prosecutions and dismissals were there and how many cases were convicted by the courts in Brussels? Can you also make a breakdown by language role? How many persecutions and dismissals were there and how many cases were convicted by the Belgian courts, other than those in the Brussels arrondissement? Can you also make a division by arrondissement? I know it is not customary to ask for figures through oral questions, Minister, but in view of the recent events in Brussels, you may have asked yourself about those figures, hence my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u38	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, although both behaviours show far too little respect for the police in office, there is nevertheless a serious difference between defamation and rebellious behaviour on the one hand and effective violence on the other. This distinction must be clearly reflected in criminal policy. In my view, violence against the police cannot be tolerated and requires a strict response. The College of Attorneys General, with which I met on Monday evening, will finally adopt tomorrow the new directive, which has long been announced, which will lay down the strict guidelines for violence against the police. As far as the number of police-registered cases is concerned, Federal Police figures for the years 2015 and 2016 show that around 4 800 facts of rebellion and 2 800 facts of defamation are recorded annually at national level in relation to some 800 cases of beatings or violence. Antwerp and Brussels are first and second respectively in terms of beatings and rebellion, while Hainaut is the frontrunner in terms of defamation, which may indicate a difference in the police record of the facts. Within the short timeframe of an oral question, it is not possible, as you feared, to obtain data from statistical analysts at the prosecutors' offices on the number of prosecutions and other forms of proceedings or dismissals. As part of the new directive, I will urge the College to evaluate the issue one year after its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u39	Minister, I am pleased that you have made it clear once again that there can be no tolerance for such facts against our police officers. It is also reasonable to have some facts, which is why it is also very important to know afterwards what the consequences are in the judicial field that are linked to the established facts. You seem to have been unable to obtain the figures on such short periods of time. I will therefore put my question in writing. I am also pleased that you will issue this letter and that it will be evaluated afterwards, because no excuse for such facts can indeed be accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u40	Minister, after the release of the new president of the National Union of Francophone Magistrates last week, it is the turn of the new president of the court of first instance and the prosecutor of the King of Nivelles to sound the alarm. In Mr. Elslander's team, there are 15 people instead of the 19 planned. Indeed, 4 substitutes were transferred or detached without being replaced. The same holds true for the Court of First Instance: only 19 out of 27 judges are actually present. Judges who are absent, ill or retired are not replaced. In view of this reality, the two owners of the Court of First Instance had to take certain measures, namely the abolition of seven criminal hearings until the end of the calendar year, with particular emphasis on the handling of so-called expedited cases. Minister, in view of this sad fact, what steps do you intend to take so that the Nivelles Court of First Instance can function properly and make up for the delay caused by postponements of hearings? Are additional support to the new judge announced for the month of December (publication of the vacant post in July) planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u41	Mr Crusnière, the shortage of magistrates in some districts in the south of the country is a problem that I have been aware of for some time, particularly within the Public Prosecutor's Office. Together with the College of Public Prosecutions, of which Prosecutor Macq is a member, solutions are sought. First of all, holidays are published consistently in the Belgian Monitor in order to maintain the filling rate. Of a total of 90 vacant posts published only this year for the Public Prosecutor's Office, 75 were for French-speaking posts, of which 64 were for first instance prosecutors. Due to a shortage of candidates, 51 of them were re-publications. For example, for the province of Luxembourg, 18 holidays were published this year, 7 of which were published in the Moniteur belge on 17 July. However, it should be noted once again that no candidate has come forward. The Mons-Tournai Public Prosecutor's Office also has a high rate of republications: 15 out of a total of 17 vacancies published. The new recruitment plan of the Public Prosecutor's Office already provides for two new vacancies of substitutes for the province of Luxembourg, as well as the recruitment of a prosecutor's lawyer and a criminologist. Four new vacancies in the Mons-Tournai Public Prosecutor's Office will be published. The framework of the Walloon Brabant Prosecutor's Office has recently fallen below the 90 per cent threshold. A vacancy is therefore planned. An appointment procedure is under way in the Walloon Brabant Court of First Instance. In addition, two vacancies are foreseen in the next recruitment plan to enable the court to reach an occupation of 93 per cent. At the beginning of the year, in addition to the five prosecutors already present, two additional prosecutors' lawyers were hired to supplement the Luxembourg Public Prosecutor's Office. The Mons Public Prosecutor's Office employs four judicial interns. Efforts continue to be made to maximize opportunities for judicial interns. In recent years, the number of interns has already been harmonized with the number of successful candidates for the examination of the judicial internship. That is why 23 places have been planned for the judicial internship on the French side from 1 October, and 19 on the Dutch-speaking side. In order to match the number of trainees to the needs, the reform of the judicial internship provides that this number will be established in consultation with the College of Courts and the College of Public Prosecutions. Pending new appointments, the increasing mobility of judges allows the judicial authorities to temporarily second magistrates to other prosecutors' offices or other courts according to objective needs such as the heavy workload. With this in mind, it has been agreed within the Public Prosecutor's Office that new appointees may be temporarily seconded to the Public Prosecutor's Office in difficulty in Luxembourg. I also refer to the recent potpourri law, which relaxes the legal possibilities of using retired magistrates as substitutes. Discussions on the number of judges cannot be separated from the debate on essential tasks. I would point out that, recently, the powers of prosecutors have been extended to enable them to assume more precisely their role in the Public Prosecutor's Office. The problem of the situation in the province of Luxembourg has indeed drawn the attention of the Supreme Council of Justice, which has apparently initiated an investigation into the situation in the Luxembourg Public Prosecutor's Office. This investigation is still under way. I have not yet been informed of any results or conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u42	Minister, thank you for these figures. I'm going to limit myself to my province, the Walloon Brabant. So you confirm the figures that have been put forward: we have fallen below the 90% threshold. The next round of recruitment will be 93 per cent. Unfortunately, this is not enough because a significant delay is being accumulated in Walloon Brabant. I invite you to continue your efforts to move towards a 100 per cent occupancy rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lijnen's 21862 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u44	Minister, over 20 police officers were injured in the recent riots in Brussels. A lot of things didn't go as it should in the event of such incidents. The General Inspectorate has already drawn up a report on police action and the Minister for Security and Home Affairs has communicated the main findings to the press. I understand that there are initiatives to ensure that the pain points are removed. Justice also has a very important role to play, of course, in terms of punishment, even the swift punishment of the facts and the execution of the sentence. Indeed, if one of the links in the chain goes wrong, a wrong signal is given, which will be used by young people, among others, to repeat such facts. In short, a global approach is needed. I understand that some of the perpetrators will be tried by swift law. Is it possible to indicate by arrondissement or year how many quick-track cases were dealt with? For which crimes is rapid justice mainly used? Is it possible to expand the system? If so, what measures do you propose? When can they go in? Another question concerns the statements of the Brussels Prosecutor of the King last weekend. While you, as Minister of Justice, and the Minister of the Interior, together with other politicians argue for zero tolerance, he stated that it is not possible to ensure zero tolerance. In my opinion, he slipped into a semantic discussion. In any case, it was not a good signal from the prosecutor in question to formulate the matter in this way at the moment. What is your response to the statements of the King's Attorney? As Minister of Justice, of course, you determine the priorities of the public prosecutors. When did you plan to discuss this matter with the attorneys? What instructions will you give them? I have already received part of the answer to my previous question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u45	Minister, I will try not to repeat too much. There have been doubts about the police's action, which, according to the General Inspection report, could be improved. More specifically, Minister, I had some questions about the judicial procedure. In this context, I refer to a letter from the College of Attorneys-General of 2010, which once again brings the approach through rapid law to the attention of the magistrates. The letter refers to the double possibility, in particular either in the case of a summons in the case of a report or in the case of an arrest in the police department and in the case of double service in the case of a subpoena. Mr. Secretary, was a judicial investigation initiated? If the media have correctly reported on this, the answer would be positive, but I would like to hear it from you personally. How many persons were the subject of an administrative arrest or deprivation of liberty? What is the follow-up to that? Were they arraigned, released or apprehended? Can you tell me a little bit more about that? Were they using the quick-track procedure to bring the perpetrators to justice? Are both procedures for dealing with fast-track law in Brussels used? Is the prosecution's complaint that they are understaffed to apply the fast-track procedure in Brussels? Was circular COL 18/2010, in so far as that circular letter is still applicable, evaluated in the meantime? When's the latest evaluation date? Is there any actualisation of the circular letter following a possible earlier evaluation? Finally, you have announced with Minister Jambon that you will draw up a plan to deal with such situations more efficiently. Perhaps you could light up a hint of the veil in connection with the lines of force? What exactly is your approach to the plan? We already have many instruments at our disposal. What is missing from us today? Or was it operational problems that bothered us on the days of the riots?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u46	Mr President, the riots in our capital have, of course, affected me and my colleagues. I have already expressed my opinion on this very clearly and I do not like to repeat it because it is boring. It is not possible for certain persons to take advantage of an event or any other reason to train together for the purpose of violence. Society, affected citizens and policemen must be protected from this. I can assure you that the D.A.'s office is also very concerned about the facts. This is evident from the contacts I had with the College of Attorney General and with the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels. The Brussels parish will do everything in its power to ensure that the perpetrators are prosecuted in an appropriate manner. I would point out that there is a difference between zero tolerance in relation to violence and with regard to the police, I refer to the circular letter which will be approved by the College of Attorneys General on 23 November and on which we had a final consultation on Monday and zero tolerance in general. That may explain why you have interfered with the statements made by the King's Attorney of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. When one reads the prosecutor in general, one can see in the press release of 12 November that he says: 'The Brussels parquet is taking a heavy toll on the facts and will, after positive identification, prosecute the perpetrators, if one has sufficient elements to link the persons to the riots and/or lootings'. This is also reflected in investigations that have been ordered by the public prosecutor in the past week. Yesterday, the Brussels parish gave a preliminary assessment of the incidents of both the night of 11 November and 15 November. For the incidents of 11 and 12 November, a total of nine persons were identified and arrested, of which six were adults. An arrest warrant was issued for one of them and the five others were called in minutes for the correctional hearing of 5 January 2018. That one person has been arraigned by the investigating judge and taken into remand. The five other persons were temporarily deprived of their freedom, but were released before the investigating judge issued an arrest warrant with a view to a quick-track hearing on 5 January. A protective procedure was initiated for the three minors. So they too were deprived of their freedom for a while, but then released again with protective measures. As regards the incidents of 15 November, five minors were provisionally deprived of their freedom. The juvenile court has already imposed protective measures on them. The fifth minor was only robbed of his freedom yesterday and brought before the juvenile court. So four minors had already received protective measures, and that was only yesterday before the fifth. The court is seeking the placement of this fifth person in the closed section of a Community institution for the protection of young people. Two other minors were identified on the facts of 15 November, but have not yet been deprived of their freedom. Further identifications are still ongoing. The court wishes to make effective use of the full arsenal of penalties and measures made available to them by the legislator, from criminal mediation to subpoena for the criminal court, whether or not preceded by detention. In this way, there is indeed a legal response to each of these facts and therefore a very limited tolerance of such violent and anti-social behaviour. The semantic discussion, as you yourself said, does not make much sense. The parquet is as strict as possible. On your question about the figures on the application of rapid law in general, I cannot obtain new statistical data within the short timeframe of an oral question. However, I should like to make a useful reference to the detailed figures provided for the year 2015 in response to a written question by Mrs De Wit. This shows that in 2015 2 059 suspects were called in by police or subpoenaed in quick-track law. The rapid judicial procedure was applied in 59 percent of cases for property offences, in particular ordinary theft, and in the following order for personal offences................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I can also refer to the very recent published figures for the whole period from 2011 to 2016 in response to a question from Mrs Lahaye-Battheu. In 2016, the speed limit was applied to 2 464 suspects. It is therefore an instrument that has often been used in the past for the prosecution of infringements committed during riots. However, a more extensive application of the rapid judicial system also depends on the nature of the facts and the opportunity to provide specific courtrooms with first instance. I do not think there is a shortage of people at the Brussels parquet or at the Brussels correction court to do so. With regard to the evaluation of the COL 18/2010 circular, I can say that the application has only been carried out quantitatively for the time being. A qualitative evaluation has not yet been carried out, partly due to the limited capacity and the associated workload. With regard to the action plan announced, discussions with Mr Jambon are still ongoing. You asked me to give you a hint of the veil. Well, we spoke last weekend, and I think it is now time to hold a quiet debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I will continue to look at the figures, but I believe that in my previous reply to the previous reply I said that we share the same view. It is, of course, very important that these actions also have a legal effect. After all, we are all aware of the recidivism of these young crooks. You said that a number of them are now being arraigned at the juvenile court. They are very young people, and if they are not punished, then those little crooks later become bigger criminals. That cannot be the intention at all, and an appropriate response is therefore needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed important that not only is there to be traced but that a legal response is followed afterwards. Of course, in an ideal scenario, identification could happen much faster. In view of the large number of amokmakers, if I may call them that, because I am not a public prosecutor who determines the crimes committed by this or that person, the number of persons identified seems to be minimal to me. I therefore believe that there is room for improvement. At least this is a start. Unlike in the past, criminal data are monitored quantitatively and there is the possibility of qualitatively evaluating them and looking for improvements. Without figures, of course, nothing can be done. Now there's numbers. The next step is to examine to what extent this can still be adjusted. I think it is from your reply that I can conclude that there is a considerable use of the right to speed. However, urban crime still appears to exist. Is there any possibility of improvement? In any case, it should be one of the objectives of a piecemeal policy which contributes to a certain prevention. I therefore invite you, if possible, to consider whether there is room for improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 21900 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u50	Mr Minister, I would like to return to the incidents that occurred to your cabinet last May. We were all able to see on television how windows were smashed and doors kicked in. Copiers and computer and television screens were thrown. The desk staff who was simply doing their job downstairs remained traumatized. Mr De Wit and I have already asked you a number of questions about the progress of the investigation. The last time we talked about this in this committee, as a result of a question, the investigation was still ongoing. Of course, one should not always believe everything in the newspaper, but last week I read in a message in De Standaard the following: "People who entered the FPS Justice last year and caused destruction have not been tracked down so far." That's strange, since there were clear cameras circulating, through social and other media, on which people were recognizable. What's the status of the judicial investigation into the facts? In the meantime, have you received any further information? Will the Belgian State take a bourgeois party or has it done so in the meantime? Did you also see that certain photos should allow identification? What do you think about the news that suddenly appears in the media and shows that these people would not be identifiable? Is there any conclusion on possible disciplinary sanctions or disciplinary proceedings? Is there any conclusion on the damage and the cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u51	Minister, it is unnecessary to refer to the long-term strikes in 2016. They were ultimately an intriguing low point of the union protest. As Mr Lachaert said, we have repeatedly asked questions about the follow-up that has been given. You have also replied on several occasions. You were waiting for information and initiatives from the D.A.'s office. However, you also replied to me a long time ago, even as early as October 2016, that the file was almost complete and that, in the context of the accelerated procedure, the court would normally be able to subpoena the defendants in the autumn of 2016, with the Belgian State taking a bourgeois party to claim compensation for the damage suffered. You also said that you would request the names of the people who were identified, because disciplinary action has been possible since October 2016 before criminal proceedings have been completed. In January 2017, I asked a follow-up question. Then you said that the investigation was still ongoing, but that the identification was under way. You also said that media footage made it possible to identify five people at the time. Disciplinary proceedings were therefore initiated against them. You understand that I found the coverage of this very strange, which is why I have a number of follow-up questions. Do you now have a view on the effect that the Public Prosecutor will give on the destruction of trade unionists on 17 May 2016? In the meantime, has the investigation of the police finally been completed? It seems to me that this fast-track law is not so fast anymore. They've been working on that for a while. How many union members were identified? How many were subpoenaed for these facts? How many identified persons did your administration get from the parquet? How many of them have already been subjected to disciplinary proceedings? How many disciplinary proceedings have already been completed and what penalties have been imposed? How many disciplinary proceedings are still under way? In the meantime, have the announced works on the reception, in particular a secure glass reinforcement, been fully completed? If so, what was the cost of this? In the end, what is the full cost of the destruction, because the last time I questioned you about this, you didn't know all the estimates? Will the Department of Justice and the Government of the Buildings try to recover the damage suffered from the identified offenders as much as possible? What is the state of play in that? What role do government trade unions play in this process? Do they pay for some of the damage? What is their position in disciplinary proceedings against their identified members? Finally, are the trade unions involved in the further identification of their members involved in the destruction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u52	Mr President, so far, five identified persons have been prosecuted by the prosecution. The Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions has contributed to identification. The prosecution shall consist of mediation in criminal matters in accordance with Article 216ter of the Code. These criminal proceedings are currently under way under the leadership of the Brussels District Court, with the cooperation of the Justice House. In doing so, the aspects of compensation to the Belgian State and the impact on the affected workers are of great importance. As responsible for the Department of Justice and in favour of mediation in criminal matters and in civil matters, I have declared myself prepared to agree to such a criminal response and handling, under the strict condition that this form of recovery law in criminal law, the so-called restorative justice, between offenders, disadvantaged parties and society, guarantees the interest of all parties. Where mediation in criminal matters would fail, including in the event of default of damages to the Belgian State, the case will still be brought before the courts. Of the five identified persons, the Management Committee of the FPS Justice, which is based in disciplinary matters, has sanctioned four statutory staff. Two staff members have received a reprimand and two others have received a reduction of 10% and 15% respectively as disciplinary penalties. Two out of four have filed an appeal, one of whom has received a reprimand and the official who has received a 10% deduction from his wager, which is pending before the committee. The fifth person, who is contractually employed, was transferred. The repairs to the reception of the FPS Justice have been completed for a long time. The reception staff are now shielded behind secured glass. The costs of this new establishment are covered by the Government of the Buildings. I would like to refer to the Minister responsible for the Management of the Buildings for that part of your question. The cost to my FPS is EUR 5 455 so far, but that amount is not yet complete. Those costs must be reimbursed by the compensation providers. I cannot inform you about concessions from the unions, which I know are not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u53	Mr Minister, I think we are hearing some new things here that we have not known so far. There's been a prosecution against five identified persons. They opted for mediation in criminal matters. You have also provided us with information on disciplinary procedures. What you're saying about the criminal justice hatch is for us fresh information. I can follow you when you say that you do not want to push this all the way. I understand that, also in view of all the conversations that will follow in that atmosphere. With regard to disciplinary sanctions, you are talking about a two-time reprimand and three times a 10 % deduction on the betting. Such retention usually applies for a very limited period. I therefore believe that those involved in this area are getting off very cheaply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u54	(...) [[microphone not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u55	I personally do not blame you, Minister, but I do compare it with the private sector. In my opinion, anyone in an undertaking who makes small cuts at his employer's premises will be fired for compelling reasons. I do not think there will be much discussion about this, should it occur in a labour court. In this case, the persons concerned get rid of it with a reprimand or a quarterly deduction of 10% on their bet, then I think those people will get rid of it very cheaply. In relation to what they've done, I don't think these disciplinary sanctions are enough. However, that is part of the disciplinary procedure which has its own course of action and as a minister you do not have to take care of it. I understand that some of these disciplinary sanctions have even been appealed against. I believe that disciplinary sanctions are very light in relation to the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My reaction is in line with Mr Lachaert's reply. I am absolutely in favour of mediation. However, I am also in favour of sending out signals that certain things simply cannot be done. It's okay to have an opinion of your own. A conviction is allowed. For all I care, even with any colour of flag may be waved. However, nothing must be destroyed and people must not be scared. That's what was done there. So there's really been a line crossed. People may still have the best reasons to argue or stop: there are limits. Mediation is good. In itself, mediation isn't a big deal. However, a clear signal must also be given. Mediation can be combined with disciplinary penalties that are sufficiently severe. Should I myself have been disciplined or if similar facts have happened in my congregation, I would have imposed another sanction. After all, the sanction given as a signal is very limited. A rebuke is a pity, but we have nothing to say about it. However, I should like to have my opinion on this. Minister, for the atrocities that have taken place there, the people concerned are very forgiving. It's okay. Forgiveness is good, but I can only hope that the right signal has been given.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u57	Mr President, for once I feel the need to replicate. Mrs De Wit, first of all, what you must bear in mind is the independence of a number of agencies, which is what she is. I have repeatedly said that justice is a word that is not always understood instantly by society. Secondly, I am the prime minister in decades that the strikers have not paid their bets. Do you know what tradition we come from?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u58	Minister, it is good that you gave that signal. In that case, it is much worse that that tradition existed before. That says more about the tradition before than about the decision. You are right, Minister, on the issue of independence, which I have also admitted. However, it is also my right, like everyone else, to have an opinion on this. There have been atrocities, and I need a signal against that. I'm glad something happened, not everyone. There are also a few rebuttals. Maybe those people were more in the background. I don't want to judge that. It's just important that a signal be given. People can stand up for their vision, ideals and rights with good reason, especially when they believe they are being harmed. For everyone, however, there are limits to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u59	Mr Minister, I understand what you are saying and the tradition behind it. So now there is a sanction, but it remains important for Members of Parliament to be able to say that they do not think it is enough. That is the signal to the authorities that there is also social pressure that this really cannot be done. This does not concern a political debate or is not addressed to you, but that is simply the message we must send from society: such facts are not acceptable to us and we need to know that this culture needs to change in that respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u60	This is something I rarely do. You are absolutely entitled to what you say, and that is not what this is about. I would like to make it clear once again that it is not about disciplinary sanctions, but about the payment of the bet during the strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u61	Minister, a number of comments have already been made on the Commission's annual report on maintenance contributions. In response, you announced that there would be a bill. There are also proposals from Parliament. I would like to ask three further questions. Firstly, a study by the University of Antwerp examines how alimony could be calculated in an objective way. Can you clarify how this study relates to the Commission's work on maintenance contributions? The Committee refers in its report to studies of the ULB and the Ghent University of Applied Sciences. Will the study of the University of Antwerp also be included in the work of that committee? Secondly, a number of people argue for one final way to calculate maintenance contributions. At the time we made the law, we in this House found that it was impossible to find one method of calculation, unlike in the Netherlands, where there is one, but it does come from the magistrate. The legislator has nothing to do with that. Should that calculation model be introduced, according to the committee? Thirdly, what do you think about the suggestion made by the committee in its outlook for next year on the DAVO? Can you answer that? Perhaps you will refer me to your colleague, but I would also like to bring to the attention of the DAVO.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u62	Ms Lahaye-Battheu, Ms Elke Claessens of the Department of Sociology of the UA, at the meeting of the Maintenance Contributions Committee of 22 September 2017, was able to explain her research on the objectification of child maintenance contributions. The study of the University of Antwerp is thus also included in the work of the Committee. As regards your second question, Article 1322, Paragraph 1 of the Civil Code provides first of all that the Committee must make recommendations for the budget of the costs arising from Article 203, Paragraph 1 of the Civil Code and the determination of the contribution of each of the parents in accordance with Article 203a of the Civil Code. The first annual report already contains a number of recommendations. The Committee also sets out its objectives for 2016 and 2017. In particular, the Committee will examine all possible methods of calculating maintenance contributions for children at home and abroad in order to determine whether the objectification of maintenance contributions can be improved. According to Article 1322, § 3 of the Code of Justice, the King could indeed draw up a method of calculation to facilitate the application of the Committee's recommendations, as you suggest. I believe, however, that it is premature at this stage to prepare a royal decision to this effect. It seems to me desirable that the committee should first continue its work of harmonization, as a first important step towards a final way of calculating maintenance contributions. Thirdly, the committee is indeed making interesting suggestions, in particular on Article 132a of the Income Tax Code and on the scope of the Alimony Claims Service, which, as you pointed out, falls within the competence of the Minister of Finance. As far as the scope of the DAVO is concerned, I can tell you that the preliminary draft law on economic revival and the strengthening of the social cohesion of the Minister of Finance already provides for the legislative loophole in this area. This preliminary draft was already approved by the Council of Ministers at first reading. I invite you to question the Minister of Finance on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As far as the method of calculation is concerned, you would first like to carry out a further evaluation. I can only refer to the exercise that took place in this House when the law was passed. Then different methods were placed next to each other in the committees, and there was always another result. I certainly am not an advocate of one method of calculation. On a case-by-case basis, however, I would like to check by the magistrate what maintenance contribution is required.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u64	Mr Minister, Article 387ter of the Civil Code provides for coercive measures if one parent does not respect the right of residence or personal contact of the child with the other parent. The law states that one can remove children manu militari with a bailiff from one of their parents. That is not evident, which is why I am asking to what extent that measure in the Civil Code is being applied today. Is Article 387b compatible with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the general principle of law prohibiting the execution of a person? Do you have any figures on the number of cases a year in which bailiffs remove children from the unwilling parent? How many criminal convictions are there for non-release of children on the basis of Articles 431 and 432 of the Criminal Code?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u65	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I acknowledge that systematically refusing or seriously making access to justice after divorce or divorce can give rise to very painful situations in which the relationship between a parent and his child is at stake. Although coercive measures in situations involving children are always very sensitive, it should be borne in mind that the right to personal contact between parents and children is also a guaranteed right in Article 9 of the ICRC. Moreover, according to established case law of the European Court of Human Rights with regard to Article 8 of the ECHR, the State also has a positive obligation to ensure that a parent and a child are reunited. The imposition of coercive measures is not excluded, but must be carefully examined, taking into account the circumstances of the case. However, the restriction is that no measures can be enforced which could harm the health or development of the child, and account must also be taken of the opinion of the child who has sufficient maturity to express it. Today there is a whole range of measures aimed at ensuring that decisions on rights of access and residence are complied with in an appropriate manner and taking into account the circumstances of each case. I believe that as much emphasis should be placed on dialogue and communication between parents as possible, but when the relationship between parents has already deteriorated, measures can sometimes be unavoidable. The decision shall lay down the detailed rules for the compulsory issue of the child. If the court considers it necessary, it may appoint persons authorised to accompany the bailiff in the enforcement of the judgment, such as a psychologist or a social worker. As far as your question for figures is concerned, I regret to inform you that my services were unable to provide the specific figures on the number of criminal convictions for non-release of children under Articles 431 and 432 of the Criminal Code. Getting these figures requires a separate extraction, and a check and assessment of the reliability of the figures, which was not possible within the given time frame. My services do not have any specific figures on the number of enforced child releases actually carried out by bailiffs. I requested these statistics from the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs, but unfortunately they could not deliver them because they were never collected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have heard that the Minister refers to the coercive measures that are sometimes necessary. I can only say that the non-release of children today remains a major problem. With existing resources, it often takes months before the contact between a parent and a child can be restored. During this period, irreparable damage has sometimes occurred. There's still work to be done here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u67	Minister, a qualitative administration of justice naturally requires the commitment of all actors. I am aware that a large number of magistrates and a large part of our legal staff are moving forward day in and day out. But I am fully aware that certain magistrates were drawn to this yesterday in connection with a visit to the OVB. Forty files on one morning in front of the family court are almost unworkable for a magistrate. Especially if such dossiers require sufficient time to listen to the parties and make decisions that are very far-reaching in the lives of a particular person. Minister, you are also aware that the availability of a sufficient number of magistrates is a necessary requirement in order to be able to rule within socially acceptable time limits. In recent years, a number of parliamentary questions have shown that there is a large absence from the magistrates due to sick leave. The result of sick leave is that those who remain have to deal with more files which are not always easy, hence my questions. Can you provide figures for the period 2013-2017, by arrondissement, as regards the number of magistrates who would be absent due to illness? Could you also give an overview of the magistrates who have been absent for more than two months? Is there a check on magistrates in absence due to illness? If this is not the case, what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u68	Mr President, the Code of Justice provides that if a magistrate is absent for more than three days for illness or other reasons, he must have the agreement of his chief of police. Only if the absence lasts more than one month is the permit of the Minister of Justice required. Since, in the current state of law, the Minister is only informed of an absence for more than one month and the absences are managed within the jurisdictions themselves for less than one month, today there is only a centralised view of the sickness absences of the magistrates for more than one month and not of the sick absences of a shorter duration; For the number of long-term absences due to illness, I will make an overview available to you from the year 2013 to 2017. The system of systematic checks in the event of absences due to illness such as that in the Federal Office or the judicial staff is not applicable to magistrates in the current state of law. The Court's Code only provides that if the absence of a magistrate is due to illness, the authorisation referred to above, referred to in Articles 331 and 332, may be made subject to medical examination by the Administrative Health Service which forms part of the Board of Medical Expertise. Control shall be carried out on the initiative of the Chief Constable. It is my intention, however, to submit to Parliament in the near future a draft law on the social status of magistrates which harmonises the rules on sickness leave and checks on magistrates with those in place elsewhere in the judicial organisation. It is also intended to go for the magistrates to a system of systematic control in the absence of illness both long and short-term, both at the request of the chief of police and at the initiative of the board of the Medical Expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u69	Thank you, Minister. Have I understood you correctly that you say that only legal checks can be carried out today on the initiative of the Chief Constable and that you are thinking of developing a new system similar to that of other officials? [[The Minister nods in the affirmative]] In terms of timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u70	2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u71	2018. The checks today on the initiative of the Chief Constable, do they happen or do they not? If this happens, a solid image can be distilled from it or is impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u72	Can you ask me a written question on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u73	I'll do that in writing, okay? I think it is clear, Minister, that the magistrate is independent but not untouchable. Everyone has to come. It has to be human. People who really are of good will who have to turn double, that can't be. If there are real deficits, then they must be able to be dealt with. That is also a question and a concern and perhaps a point for another question. But if there are abuses, they must be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u74	Questions No 21864, No 21867 and No 21868 by Georges Gilkinet are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u75	Minister, in the first potpourri law, we have set up a new procedure whereby companies no longer have to recover their undisputed money debts from the courts. An earlier parliamentary question one year after its entry into force showed that the procedure could be described as a great success. The platform unpaid.be, founded by a number of lawyers, was even recently awarded an innovation prize by the Financial Times business newspaper. Through this platform, undisputed claims between companies can be recovered in a fully automated manner, without any physical recourse to justice. The recovery of small or less small undisputed claims is thus possible, because the cost is much lower than when a lawyer has to subpoena, write conclusions and move around. On the debtor's side, there could be savings in role and justice fees. In the fourth potpourriwet you wanted to go a little further, by registering that the party that has wrongly claimed useless costs has to bear them themselves. The reasoning is clear: anyone who has a choice between equal alternatives is encouraged to choose the cheapest. That goes without saying. It is, of course, not always easy to decide as a lawyer whether or not the claims are disputed, but that aside. The Court of Cassation ruled on 12 October 2017 that, where a creditor has the choice of two possible proceedings, no unnecessary costs are incurred when he opts for the much more expensive summons. That ruling threatens to undermine the procedure for undisputed claims and to eliminate the intended reduction in workload for the courts of commerce. What role do you see for the Order of Flemish Balies and the Walloon counterpart avocats.be to counter costly procedural choices and their negative consequences on the costs that the debtor is obliged to pay in this case, as well as on the workload at the court of commerce? Are you considering making the procedure for the recovery of undisputed monetary debts compulsory, which requires a creditor to use that procedure, if a money claim was not contested? How will you ensure that a well-functioning procedure remains effective and that the intended reduction of workload can be achieved in court?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u76	I am less pessimistic than you about the scope of the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 12 October 2017. The court did not simply say that if a creditor has the choice of two possible proceedings, he does not incur any unnecessary costs when he opts for the much more expensive summons, but he does, I quote: 'that the choice of ordinary judicial proceedings instead of the procedure for recovering undisputed money debts in itself does not constitute an error or constitutes an abuse of the process. I would like to emphasise the words 'in themselves', because everything has to do with the justification of the plaintiff's choice which was missing in them, or more precisely, which was not checked by the court. The Court of Cassation therefore merely stated that the court should not order the plaintiff to pay the costs of summons and other costs if he still subpoenas for undisputed claims. Indeed, this can only be done if the choice for the more expensive road is incorrect, which is perfectly in line with our views on the useless costs, for which Article 1017 of the Civil Code was supplemented in Article 81 of the Potpourriwet IV. In the light of this, I believe that the courts can continue to condemn the plaintiffs who are still subpoenas, even though they would see their claim fully satisfied in the cheaper way, i.e. for no reason, until the court costs. However, they will have to invite the claimant to justify his choice and, where appropriate, to assess that accountability. The role of the Bar Associations may be to make their members aware of the possible consequences before they enter a particular procedure. Finally, I do not think that the procedure for undisputed monetary debts has lost its momentum if one sees things in their proper context. Anyway, we're studying the matter further in the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic767x.u77	Mr Minister, I am somewhat reassured by the fact that the judgment in cassation does not mean generalisation, but puts the individual assessment first, which is in line with what we have tried to do with potpourriwet IV. I'm happy with that confirmation. So it is not an undermining of what we have been trying to achieve. Especially now that we are also considering the extension of B2B to B2C, we must proceed with caution. Thank you for the clarification.
