ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u1	Minister, the Order of Flemish Bailiffs and the Commissioner for Children's Rights respond fairly displeased with a new directive from the College of Attorneys General. The minors who are called up for a police interview are no longer always assisted by a lawyer. However, that assistance is mandatory under the Salduz Act. Anyone who is called up for a police interview as a result of the Salduz Act has the right to be assisted by an attorney. In the case of minors, that legal protection is even greater. As a minor, this assistance cannot be waived. There must therefore be mandatory consultation with a lawyer before the minor is interrogated. The minor must also be assisted by a lawyer in the case of subsequent interviews or in the completion of a form. However, according to the directive on the extension of that law, Salduz Plus, it is no longer necessary to do so in future. If a minor is caught on minor facts such as a small shoplifting, possession of a joint or a cutting knife, then the police can also ask the younger person to simply fill out a form. The young person then has the choice: either he makes a written statement, or he ticks on the form in question that he does want to be interviewed, and that must then be done with the support of a lawyer. Thus, such a form does not replace the questioning, emphasises the court. The problem is that the young person should not receive assistance from a lawyer before completing that form, cites the Order of Flemish Baries. Each minor must be assisted by a lawyer. If that doesn't happen, it's unconstitutional. According to the media, you don't want to respond. This attitude is surprising, all the more so since I understand that the College of Attorneys General is under the authority of the Minister of Justice. Minister, I have three questions. First of all, how should I interpret your silence? Does this mean that you are in favour of the College of Attorney General's directive? Are you distancing yourself from this? Secondly, how did this directive come about? Were you consulted directly or through your cabinet? Did this directive happen without you being known about it? Thirdly, what is your position in the discussion between the parquet and the Order of Flemish Baries?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u2	Mrs Lambrecht, as a result of the comments made by the OVB this summer, I asked the College of PGs. After all, I had no knowledge of a new Salduz directive for minors or of an application by the prosecution counter legem. The Youth Protection Expert Network delivered an opinion at the end of June on the application of the Salduz Act for minors. This opinion was adopted by the College of Attorneys General and caused commotion, mainly because of a different interpretation of the legislation and European directives by the order. The Attorney General of Brussels, whose powers include criminal policy on youth, has sent a letter to the two orders of lawyers. That letter clarifies that the College of Attorneys-General does not wish to encourage practices which derogate from the conduct of lawyers when interrogating minors. On the one hand, it is recalled that a Salduz III hearing of a minor can never take place without prior consultation with a lawyer. On the other hand, it specifies the situations in which, in principle, exceptional situations can be dealt with without the assistance of a lawyer. This is the case, for example, where lawyers contacted through the permanent service indicate after the confidential telephone consultation that they do not consider it necessary to come to the premises for questioning, for example because of the lightness of the facts or because they have made concrete arrangements with their minor client. In addition, the College of Attorneys-General recalls that, when a statement is made on the basis of a standardised form or standardized questionnaire, it is not an interrogation and that the right to consultation and assistance does not apply to it. Nevertheless, several safeguards are provided for minors. For example, its use is limited to a number of minor facts, where the damage should not exceed EUR 250. Since the Directive is intended solely to explain the law, it is not a common directive but an internal operational directive of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is also why I have not been involved in the debate. In addition, a meeting between representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office and OVB and OBFG delegations will be organised in October 2017. In the meantime, a letter was addressed by the OVB to all staff members stating that and I quote... the lawyer who, after having accepted a call from the Salduzwet application or has been added by the BJB to a minor suspect, advises that suspect to give up assistance during the interview and informs the minor and/or the police that he will not come to the scene to assist the minor during the interview, threatens to commit a deontological deficiency, which may give rise to disciplinary sanctions and possibly to the deletion of the Salduzpermanence list. Thank you, Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u3	Minister, I understand that this is an internal working directive and that meetings between the actors will take place in 2017. It is strange that now the meetings will be held for consultation and that the internal working directive is apparently already valid. I continue to be amazed at the fact that a lawyer can decide not to come if he is asked to do so by telephone and despite the fact that he can get disciplinary sanctions for that refusal. Nevertheless, such practices are allowed to continue. In it lies the wonder of everyone. I therefore hope that, after the meetings in 2017, we will be able to come back to the internal working directive, which causes a great deal of confusion and, in my view, also lower protection for the minor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u4	Mr President, Minister, on 14 July I asked you a question about the termination of the contract of the blood test tubes. This is a crucial element in carrying out the bob controls. You replied that the new order would be awarded by early July at the latest. It is now September and I would have liked to have a state of affairs. Can you guarantee me when the new blood test tubes will be delivered to the center cities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the contract for the supply of blood collection systems was awarded on 31 July. The reasoned decision was taken on 14 July and, in view of the standstill in the public contracts with European publication, a notification was sent 15 calendar days later. In the meantime, my administration has committed the necessary appropriations for the execution of the deliveries. The local police zones, the federal police as well as the public prosecutor's office, and the courts and courts received the concrete implementation information in early August by means of a debrief. Since the award of the contract, 6 307 units have been delivered. For example, there was no shortage of supplies for those police areas which were not adequately supplied at the end of the previous contract. All deliveries have been carried out correctly and in accordance with the specifications of the contract documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u6	Mr Minister, I will make sure of this. The Bruges police force can only be satisfied with this. I hope that in future there will be no more periods in which it is difficult to carry out the bob controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u7	Mr President, Minister, it is reported that the windows have not been polished for several years, both in the Brussels parquet and in various peace courts in Flanders. Employees have to clean the windows themselves, otherwise they can hardly see anything. The last brush was dated at least two years ago. The company that normally cleans everything up hasn't been around for a while. Apparently, in the current budgetary context, there is no room for outsourcing specific tasks such as cleaning windows. Priority will be given to necessary safety and utility investments. Minister, has the problem been resolved in the meantime? If so, what measures have you taken? If not, are you planning to take action? Are there similar problems in other parquets and peace dishes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, there are not enough budgetary resources to follow up all the questions. Choices must therefore be made which give priority, including to the examples you have mentioned. As a result, some maintenance contracts can no longer be renewed. The competent services in the FPS are primarily trying to choose not to renew the contracts whose impact is least problematic, such as cleaning the windows. There is no difference between Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. The FPS Justice Department is a federal service that manages its resources all over the country. This situation is therefore general and not limited to a particular region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u9	Minister, with all due respect, I ask you whether there will be any improvement and I get the answer that this situation is general. This is not a long-term policy. You are actually saying that we have to accept that there is no money in the courts to clean excellently. It's about buildings where Jan and alleman go. Where we are here it is clean and that creates a certain mood to work. But Belgium's legal system must now be defended in buildings where there is no more polishing. I find it very strange that there are neither plans nor additional resources to provide for this. And I conclude from your answer that we must accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u10	Minister, according to figures recently published by the Order of Flemish Baries, the number of disciplinary investigations against lawyers has increased considerably over the last four years. At the Brussels counter, the number of complaints increased from 110 to 678, in Antwerp from 77 to 125 and in Ghent from 34 to 101. Most of the disciplinary complaints are about the fee of honor. Only the Brussels desk records such complaints separately. In 2012 she received 45, but in 2016 that number had increased to 320. Some sources put these figures into perspective and say that the number of disciplinary complaints is increasing mainly because there are also more and more lawyers and lawsuits. One of the 28 measures taken by the SuperMinister Council prior to the summer recess concerns the introduction of tax-deductible legal expenses insurance, coupled with the introduction of a nomenclature for the services provided by lawyers. As with doctors, the cost of all possible attorney fees would be framed. Lawyers should indicate whether or not they will respect agreed tariffs and the government would draw up a list of lawyers who would like to negotiate. Minister, how do you interpret these figures? In the meantime, where do you stand with the nomenclature for the services provided by lawyers? When can we expect its publication?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u11	Ms Lambrecht, Articles 458 and 459 of the Code of the Court of Justice determine the powers of the staff member with regard to the receipt and examination, also of his own motion, of complaints against lawyers of his order. The staff member must personally include the decision and final responsibility for disciplinary action in his desk with the assistance of his council of the Order. The complaints are not automatically communicated to the President of the Disciplinary Board today. Therefore, the staff member remains the only way in which a procedure for the Disciplinary Board can be opened. The figures you quote were published in Knack magazine on 30 August 2017. The journalist received these statistics from the Order of Flemish Balies, who asked around the staff holders of the Flemish desks. It is not a simple exercise for me as Minister of Justice to interpret those figures. Not every desk records the number of complaints. Such complaints may, moreover, be submitted to the staff manager in a fairly informal manner. Not every complaint has a sequel. The number of complaints lodged can therefore increase without this increase implying that there is actually more disciplinary action. In policy terms, it is important to have uniform figures on the number of complaints submitted and dealt with. For this reason, in my plan for modernising the legal profession, I will propose to register the judgments in disciplinary matters. Transparency allows for well-founded judgments on disciplinary law. Today that is impossible as not every desk records and publishes these statements. I hope that a new professional and transparent disciplinary regime will be developed in consultation with the Community's order. As regards your second question, I can tell you that the Special Council of Ministers of 14 May 2017 took a decision in principle on legal aid insurance with a view to promoting it through a tax incentive. The aim is to improve access to justice for those above the income limits of second-line assistance. This project is the result of two years of negotiations with Assuralia, OVB and avocats.be, all of whom expressed the desire to make the project work. A text proposal has already been submitted, on which political consultation is still under way. In this text, the free choice of lawyer remains guaranteed and lawyers can freely determine their fees with respect for the principles of the Legal Code and deontology. There is indeed an annex to the text proposal which lists a series of achievements. However, this annex is not a nomenclature as we know it in other sectors, but rather a maximum rate per type of performance on which the lawyer decides whether or not he will respect it. If the lawyer chooses to respect the annex, the guarantee of the insurer's intervention doubles and the lawyer has a guarantee of payment by the insurer to the extent of this increased guarantee. Taking into account that the lawyer's fees are the most important part of the insurer's costs, this system increases the insurer's affordability and predictability, with a beneficial effect on the level of the premium for the right-holder.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I have two questions. I understand from your reply that you too consider it necessary to obtain more uniform figures on complaints, in particular in relation to disciplinary action. You say this is included in your modernisation plan. My first question is, therefore, when will we start to include these figures? We can put it into a plan, but the legislatures follow each other quickly. Is there a timing for that? A second question concerns the nomenclature itself. I believe I understand that the political dialogue on the text is still ongoing. Is there a timing for that? When can we expect the start of working with the nomenclature?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u13	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Dumery's 19965, 20231 and 20233 have been converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 20304 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I have asked you a question on this subject several times. We were then awaiting the evaluation by the College of Attorney General of the laws on the ban. That evaluation is finally complete. There are, at last, concrete figures and this shows what we have suspected for a long time, namely that the laws are being applied too little in practice. I also read in the press that you are in favour of applying the ban more often. I would have liked to have heard your reaction to the college's evaluation. In what way do you want to achieve the application of the laws?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, at the end of June, the College of Attorneys General approved the results of a qualitative evaluation of the house ban. It examined the conditions under which the temporary home ban could be applied more effectively and the reasons for the relatively little application of the house ban today. However, I am convinced that this instrument, provided it is properly implemented, can work problem-solving and will often work better than, for example, pre-trial detention. The temporary ban on housekeeping includes assistance and counselling opportunities and links to the family judge, who is the natural judge for intrafamilial problems. The evaluation report makes concrete recommendations for wider application, including with regard to the Directives, the COL18/2012 on the ban on housing, but also with regard to administrative handling and workload, which make it difficult for the magistrate to apply the instrument easily. I met the researchers in my cabinet last Friday and felt a great willingness at the prosecution's office to use the instrument more frequently. This requires some legal adjustments but also good implementation in criminal policy instruments and cooperation with all actors. We must prevent the law from remaining too dead letter in the absence of a structural framework and embedding. The added value lies, in my view, in the use of the instrument within a chain-oriented approach, which takes shape, among other things, in family justice centres, together with the competent services of the Communities and the judicial assistants whose mandate needs to be adjusted. I shall therefore first refer the results of the evaluation to the fellow ministers of the Communities in order to work together, each within its own powers and tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u16	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that you have already had a discussion with the College of Attorneys General and that you believe that a wider application of the ban is needed. Indeed, I have also read in the report that legal amendments need to be made. About two years ago, I tabled a legislative proposal on this matter, the opinion of which is largely in line with the proposals contained in our legislative proposal. I hope that we will be able to do this quickly so that we can adopt this bill. I hope that you, together with your fellow Members from the Community governments, will ensure that this issue is addressed as effectively as possible at the executive level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u17	Questions Nos 20471 and 20476 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u18	Mr President, Minister, the opening of the second Forensic Psychiatric Centre, now in Antwerp, is finally a fact. With some delay the FPC was officially opened at the end of June and that is a good thing for the mentally ill who are still waiting in prison for their transfer to a specialized centre. Since August 7th, the FPC has been ready and has received the first patients. There is room for 182 patients, with 18 places reserved for women, which is unique in terms of internment. Since the start of the FPC Ghent had some problems two years ago, perhaps also because of the new formula, I have some questions about the state of play. First of all, did the start go smoothly? Secondly, how many patients are currently staying at the FPC in Antwerp? How many of these are women? Thirdly, has the staff been fully filled in? If not, when can we expect full employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, the start has indeed been smooth. The gradual follow-up of the FPC in Antwerp, which has a total of 182 places, is based on the inflow schedule of the operator. Just like at the time when the FPC was filled in Ghent, this starts with limited groups per month to gradually receive larger groups of interned persons per month, until the full line-up will be reached after eight months. This full occupation is scheduled for the end of March 2018. The current waiting list for the FPC in Ghent and the FPC in Antwerp will then be completely eliminated. For this gradual filling up until full occupancy of the FPC, the recordings will be made taking into account the chronological decisions of placement, on the one hand, and on the basis of the profiles that are clustered to be included in the departments, on the other. Since the oldest placement decisions are for male internees, the placement decisions at the FPC in Antwerp for female internees will not be carried out in the first months of the start-up phase. The staffing framework is not yet complete, but it is not necessary. The filling of the staff frameworks is linked to the stepped filling of the FPC. This allows the operator to employ sufficient staff, always on the basis of the number of interns who are staying and who have also followed the start-up training. In this way, there is a sufficient number of qualified staff at each stage of recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u20	Mr Minister, if I understand correctly, the influx that is now taking place is a very positive one. The total occupation is still waiting until March. This means that no women can yet be admitted. Hopefully the flow continues as smoothly as possible so that those who do not belong in prison, especially the female interns, can receive better reception while, of course, the high security offered by the FPC is still provided, namely a very safe, closed reception. We will hear about the further evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u21	Mr President, Minister, the Brussels Court of Appeal has exclusive jurisdiction over the whole of the Kingdom to try certain offences (infringements committed by a minister in the performance of his duties) and certain remedies (in particular those brought against certain decisions of the supervisory authorities of the economic and financial sectors). There are numerous and regular accounts of his inability to deliver judgments within a prompt or simply reasonable time and of such a nature as to avoid statute of limitations. Thus, I quote lawyer Denis Bosquet, interviewed in the weekly Le Vif of this September 15th: "It is true, there is an incredible congestion at the level of the Court of Appeal where there is only one chamber in financial matters, which lies under the file." This confirms other evidence that has already been heard. This situation is really problematic in relation to the ability to judge financial cases but also to lead, where appropriate, to convictions, given the difficulty of obtaining court decisions within a reasonable time and the strategy of some defendants and their counsels to make every effort to prolong the proceedings and/or to exploit this lack of resources. Mr Minister, do you confirm that only one chamber in the Brussels Court of Appeal specializes in financial matters? Has the backlog of the Brussels Court of Appeal ever been assessed? What are the conclusions? What is the average time taken to process a financial case by the Brussels Court of Appeal? What explains this situation? Is it envisaged to remedy this - what I hope - within what time frame and with what means?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u22	Mr Gilkinet, the Brussels Court of Appeal does indeed have several exclusive powers. The chamber chosen to deal with this jurisdiction is determined by the provision of the first president of the court, in accordance with article 106 of the Judicial Code. The provision establishing the special regulation of the Court determines the number of chambers of the Court, their competence and the number of advisers. It shall contain an indication of the Chambers which, in the Court of Appeal, sit respectively in the number of three members of the Court or in the number of one member of the Court. The Court of Appeal in Brussels holds, with an average duration of 825 days, the highest average duration of the five courses. The problem of this high duration does not seem to arise for appeals against the decisions of the Minister of Finance, for appeals against the decisions of the Banking and Financial Commission, the Insurance Control Office and the market enterprises, for which the Brussels Court has exclusive jurisdiction. According to the annual statistics of courts and tribunals published by the College of Courts and Courts, the duration of such cases in 2016 was 419 days. According to these statistics, these are only two pending cases mentioned in the role of the financial sector. The high length of time is at the level of tax cases: in 2016, the average duration of cases from final judgments to the role of tax cases was 837 days. In 2016, the Supreme Council of Justice conducted a special survey of the five Courts of Appeal, which was published on its website. For each of these, the Council examined the evolution of the workforce, the input, the output, the start-up ratio and the production capacity available between 2008 and 2013. With regard to the issue of financial affairs in the Brussels Court of Appeal, the report indicated that, in civil cases, financial cases were increasingly over-represented, including several pending cases, which meant that increasing financial cases were being dealt with more slowly on average than civil cases. The court is currently experiencing a large number of pending cases, however, with a slight decrease. The report also noted a decrease in the number of new and resolved civil cases. One of the findings of the report was: "When a ratio between production and production capacity is established, it is observed that in correctional matters, productivity up to 2011 is higher each year than in 2008, the base year, and then falls below the 2008 level. In civil matters, productivity is consistently lower than in 2008 with the exception of a peak in 2010, which can be relativized by the above explanation. The productivity of young people is consistently higher. With respect to the indictment chamber, productivity was higher than in 2008 until 2011. It has been below 2008 productivity since then." In order to respond to problems concerning courts, the use of a single counsel was generalised for courts of appeal in the law of 19 October 2015 amending the law of civil procedure and laying down various provisions in the field of justice. From now on, the single council is "the" standard. It is only exceptionally that the first president may decide on a case-by-case basis to assign a specific case to a three-member chamber. Given the high length of time, it is in the interest of the litigant and his right to deal with his case within a reasonable time that the courts make maximum use of these new possibilities. That is why I have invited the Supreme Council of Justice to conduct a special inquiry into the manner in which these courts apply these legal rules concerning the allocation of cases requiring a single board within their entity since the entry into force of this law. This investigation is still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u23	Minister, your figures confirm the magnitude of the problem. There is a real bottleneck at the level of the Brussels Court of Appeal. In financial cases, defendants and their counsel benefit from the strategies they develop to benefit from the prescription or the exceedance of reasonable time. This brings us back to a matter which I have studied a great deal and which is the subject of a committee of inquiry in this Parliament. I hear that the problem is being identified and that the Supreme Council of Justice has conducted investigations. But, being impatient in nature and concerned with tax justice, I believe that the magnitude of the problem and its budgetary consequences justify action that is faster and more voluntary than the one you give me the impression of undertaking. When I re-examine the matter, in a short time, I hope that you will be able to announce more precise measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u24	Mr Minister, in a previous oral question to your colleague Jan Jambon (No. The Minister of the Interior has advised me to address you in this file. Is it your competence, Minister, to legally authorize all technical means capable of reading the registration plates of smugglers' vehicles for the purpose of investigation and possible prosecution? If so, what measures have been taken by your administration to this end in the fight against trafficking in human beings, starting with the smuggling of smugglers of migrants into our territory? The smuggling of migrants is an "international" enterprise. Is our legislation adapted to that of our neighbours with a view to better coordination between the courts of the neighbouring countries? What are the main advances made by the various Justice Ministers of the European Union in this matter? Is our legislative framework sufficient to combat this trafficking in human beings? If not, what would be the topics of future bills that you could submit to our Parliament? Thank you, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u25	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, since 2005, there has been a provision that specifically punishes trafficking in human beings as an offence in its own right by amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, stay, establishment and removal of aliens. It is Article 77bis of this law that now punishes this criminal phenomenon. In addition, since 2011 there has already been a circular issued by the Ministers of Justice, the Interior or the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and the College of Attorneys General (COL 04/11) on the investigation and prosecution of trafficking in human beings. This circular designates specialized magistrates in charge of the matter. It also contains in annexes practical instruments for investigators and magistrates - indicators, a police outline, a glossary. The adaptation in 2018 of this circular is one of the measures mentioned in the first action plan to combat trafficking in human beings. This action plan was approved in December 2015 in the Interdepartmental Coordination Unit for Combating Trafficking and Trafficking in Human Beings. One of the measures mentioned also involves the continuation and diversification of control measures. Action on trafficking in human beings is modelled on the EU's Action Plan against Trafficking in Human Beings, in collaboration with neighbouring countries. As regards prevention, the Office of Foreigners, the Federal Police, Febetra, the port of Zeebrugge, etc. have developed an awareness campaign for the carrier sector to encourage them to take precautions and inform them on how to react. The legislative framework is already very comprehensive and has been the subject of various revisions. I therefore do not think it is necessary to amend it at the present time. However, as indicated, an update of the circular on investigations and prosecutions will be considered. In addition, efforts will continue on the ground. As regards specifically the use of the so-called ANPR cameras, the current legal framework is not adequate. My colleague Jan Jambon and I are preparing a bill to create appropriate rules for the use of cameras by the police. This will also facilitate use in the fight against trafficking in human beings. The bill has been submitted to the Council of State for its opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u26	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. However, let me ask you to give me a copy because you read it very quickly, at least faster than the ability of my brain to integrate it. In any event, I know that this is a matter of particular interest to you. On the other hand, Mr President, if I may, let me add that I visited Ittre prison last Saturday. Minister, I would like to pay tribute to you for the quality of the work that is being done there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u27	Minister, many people are not in a position to manage their finances adequately. Where appropriate, they shall be assigned a debt intermediary, who shall manage their money. The debtor receives a monthly living allowance to provide the human dignity of his family. More and more I hear complaints about the communication between the debt intermediary and the debtor, and the non-time payment of the living money. In your answer to my earlier question, you stated that you would work on the electronic litigation of collective debt mediation as a priority. This could solve the communication problem in many cases. I have the following questions. What is the state of play with the introduction of the electronic collective debt mediation procedure? Are certain rules imposed on the debt intermediary to supplement this electronic file periodically, within a specified period of time? Can the debtor consult at any time? Has legislation been reviewed in the meantime? If so, what are the conclusions? If not, when do you provide for this evaluation? How does the task of debt intermediaries, usually lawyers, be controlled? I am not referring directly to the presentation of legal issues, but to the communication problems. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u28	Mrs Uyttersprot, since your earlier question, my administration has completed a preliminary draft law which adapts the procedure to the use of a computer platform with a central register of collective debt regimes. The legal basis for the register was already included in the fourth potpourriwet. It entrusted the task of establishment and management jointly to the two bar associations. For example, the existing time limits shall remain in force for the maximum period of six months for the preparation of a proposal for an amicable settlement................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The debtor has today the right to see the file of legal proceedings of a case in which he is involved. The computerisation of the procedure will not change this right, but simplify its exercise as it will also make it possible to consult a file digitally. It is therefore no longer necessary to move and the opening hours of the Registry no longer limit the possibility of consultation. The legislation has been evaluated for efficiency in terms of the course of proceedings and the flow of information following digitisation. The substantive evaluation is more useful when the computerisation process provides us with the necessary data. It is up to the court to check the activities of the debt intermediary if this is justified. In the event of problems with the way in which the mediator exercises his duties, the debtor may request the appointment of a new debt intermediary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for the content of your reply. I am glad that the preliminary draft is ready, but there is clearly still some work to be done. I remember 2012, when the law was reviewed and renewed, that there were two important objectives. On the one hand, the debtor had to be given more means of subsistence according to the family situation. Furthermore, there was an effort to provide information on everything related to the evolution of the financial situation. As far as the second is concerned, in practice, despite the fact that this is included in the law, many people complain about the accessibility of their debt intermediary. Despite the fact that it has been laid down by law that information on everything contained in the file is not always possible in practice. It is not always possible for debtors to be replaced by a debt intermediary to defend themselves against this. The labour court is not readily inclined to do so. It is important that this electronic procedure should be put in place so that the file can be consulted directly. This would mean a huge profit in terms of time efficiency, both for the debtor and for the debt intermediary. I therefore hope that we will be able to receive your preliminary draft quickly in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 20694 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u31	Mr Minister, last week there were reports in the media of the frustration and despair of a shipbuilder from Zeebrugge who expressed his indignation at the occupation of part of his yard by transmigrants-illegals who apparently have been operating for months and are not taking effective action. He doesn't say there's no action. He even literally says that the police are doing a great job and she is there every time within five minutes, but that nothing fundamentally changes. The mayor also admits in the article that it is occasionally mopping with the crane open. However, last year the law of 20 May 2016 was adopted to criminalise the unauthorised entry into a port facility. Since the adoption of that law, the number of persons entering the port has been reduced. That was also necessary, because the figures I requested from the Minister of the Interior showed that in 2016 alone, in Zeebrugge, 896 people were involved. The question is, of course, why, after that law, such situations continue to take place. What about the application of the law of 20 May 2016 on entry into port facilities, in particular with regard to the port of Zeebrugge? How many people were prosecuted for this in 2017 and what were the sentences? How many persons were prosecuted in accordance with Article 546/1 and Article 546/2 of the Criminal Code? Is it necessary to take additional measures to deal with the punishment of such offences more severely and more quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u32	Mrs Pas, I cannot give complete figures within the short time frame of an oral question, but I can say the following after questioning the prosecution. In the period from the entry into force of the Law of 12 June 2016 to 16 November 2016, 69 persons were prosecuted, with the exception that a number of persons appear twice in the census. Within the same period, 21 judgments were handed down condemning one or more persons per sentence. In all judgments aggravating circumstances were withheld and thus legal proceedings were instituted on the basis of Article 546/2 of the Criminal Code. The penalties are generally six months in prison and 100 euros in fines. The court looks at the concrete circumstances and sometimes pronounces half of the sentence with delay. In the period January-August 2017, 57 persons were prosecuted, which is on average 7 persons per month. Both at the level of the police forces and at the level of the parquet and the magistrate, sufficient capacity is released to respond ad brake to intrusions and to enable and judge the cases in question. There have been no acquittals so far, which means that files are sufficiently upholstered to decide on a conviction. I therefore do not think that additional measures are necessary at the moment. I would like to point out that the yard mentioned by you is not in the port area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My congratulations for articulating so well and being able to debit all those figures so quickly. I'm going to read them again quietly, because I couldn't write them down that fast. I will also address Mr Francken and Mr Jambon on this, because of course it cannot be that people like the shipbuilders are affected by this and that these things continue to take place without it being fundamentally addressed. I'll study the numbers. I'll get back to you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u34	Question No 20710 by Mrs van Cauter is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u35	Mrs. De Wit is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u36	Mr President, Minister, in June, in order to relieve prisons, you introduced a new measure, the so-called week-to-week system for prisoners sentenced from 3 to 10 years. In doing so, the prisoners are in prison for a week and are allowed to walk free for a week without any supervision. The fact that prisoners can still rely on night-time permits would in practice mean that they will only spend 12 to 13 days in prison from each month they have to serve. However, the month is fully counted in deduction of the sentence to be served. Moreover, it appears that when the prisoners are free for a week, they are not subject to any control whatsoever and can therefore simply go their own way, which is reported to take all kinds of forms, such as holidaying, undeclared work and possibly committing new criminal offences. Many people on the ground warn that in this way, without proper guidance, the risk is much greater that prisoners will commit criminal offences again. I think that this measure is not only crazy for words, but also counterproductive. There are a lot of perverse side effects, according to comments from lawyers, prosecutors and prison directors. It does more work for the executives, it crosses the reintegration of the detainees and increases the risk of recurrence. I would have liked an answer to the following questions. Since when is this system in place? How many inmates have been able to make use of this to date? What is your reaction to the criticisms made against this system from various angles? Do you intend to suspend this system and, as far as we are concerned, put a definitive stop to it, given the many disadvantages and side effects involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u37	Mr President, Minister, at the end of June you announced new measures to tackle the overpopulation in prisons. One of these measures was the week-to-day scheme for prisoners sentenced to 3 to 10 years of imprisonment. In concrete terms, they spend a week in prison, after which they can go home for a week. The week at home counts as punishment, but during this week there is no form of control, not even by electronic supervision. The decision on who will receive the new regime lies not with the criminal execution courts which oversee the reintegration process and the conditions of release of a detainee, but with the Department of Detention Management of the FPS Justice and Prison Directors. The new regulation leads to abuses which are still socially difficult to justify. For example, there are inmates who visit the sun in the south during the week outside the prison and the following week return to prison with a brutal fire. For example, there are prisoners who, during their leave week, work in black or fall back into old habits, such as drug trafficking or drug use. Also from a professional point of view, there is more and more criticism of this measure. First, the trade unions complained about the increased workload, now the magistrates and the lawyer are calling the alarm bell and pointing to the crossing of the reintegration pathways and increasing the risk of recurrence. In short, merely to relieve the pressure in prisons, a whole system is being called into question, with many possible consequences. Minister, how do you deal with the criticism of the system that you introduced unilaterally in June, without consultation or debate? How will you restore the necessary trust in the execution of the sentence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Pas and Mrs Lambrecht, first of all I would like to outline the background to the decision on alternate leave. With regard to the level of overpopulation in prisons, in spring 2017 I was confronted with a situation that showed all the signs of the slow but certain development of a new humanitarian crisis in prisons. The drop in capacity of more than 300 places following the closure of a second wing in the Vorst prison and the loss of two pavilions at Merksplas had led to the cessation of the rent of the prison in Tilburg. Additional capacity loss of more than 300 places combined with an increase in the prison population with some 500 prisoners between October 2016 and May 2017 did not miss its impact and resulted, for example, in several hundred prisoners having to sleep back on the ground. This humanitarian threat, due to the tensions it brought with it and the inevitably increasing workload to overcome these tensions, was the direct cause for this decision, and not simply the desire to reduce the burden of work, let alone the forced reduction of the prison population. After consulting the penitentiary administration, I chose to introduce the extended penitentiary leave. This option has not been taken without caution. In the first instance, the extended penitentiary leave applies only to convicts who have already shown that they have successfully completed a leave cycle. Secondly, prisoners sentenced to severe penalties are excluded. Thirdly, it is necessary to examine in each case whether the placement of the sentenced person in that leave variant would not entail a recurrence or withdrawal. This remains a focus of attention in the later implementation. There are currently around 280 prisoners in this system. I was not in a position to collect the data per facility within this short period of time, but on a daily basis 143 persons stayed under this system on 21 September, i.e. about half of the total number of detainees in this system. You are referring to some of the criticisms that are being made about this system. Within the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions, we are currently gathering the data that will allow me to evaluate the system. Without prejudging the results of this evaluation, I would like to question with some conviction whether many of these criticisms exceed the level of anecdotics. The fact that prisoners would massively abuse these modalities in order to commit further abuses cannot be proved by facts. The number of failures mentioned is extremely limited. Nor do I notice that these prisoners are placed under arrest for the purpose of committing new offences. That prisoners should not continue to work on their reintegration during leave should be monitored, but as anecdotal as I can refer to the prisoners of the Ruiselede prison who are covered by this system and almost half of them have a job during their week's leave. It is difficult to say that this would be undeclared work. In that case, we wouldn't know. With regard to the follow-up of the detainees in this system, I can confirm that the follow-up through the psychosocial service for this leave is different from that for the classic leave. Apart from the fact that, strictly speaking, the granting of penitentiary leave is not always linked to the preparation of social reintegration, the prisoners are indeed questioned about the initiatives they have taken during their leave and which can promote their reintegration. This leave shall also be notified to the King's Attorney so that he may exercise his supervisory powers. As I have said, the measures will be evaluated, but I do not want to anticipate the possible conclusions. These will be based on factual elements and not on opinions, assumptions and perceptions of all kinds. Penitentiary leave is part of the basic regime of the detainees and is a privilege of the Minister of Justice, as provided for in the 2006 Law on the external legal status of the convicted persons. I have therefore not consulted the criminal courts which have their own powers under this law. I am aware that such measures are rather exceptions, but that does not imply that they would be a machiavellian measure. I do not deny that this system has had operational consequences, albeit slight. Nor do I dispute the fact that the guidance should be even more intensive. If all the prisons planned in the master plans 1 and 2 were also built, we were in a different situation today. The reality is that in the case of initiatives which are difficult to find a social consensus on the problems facing the prison system, and in the meantime, I have to fight with the instruments I have at my disposal. The Scandinavian prison system rightly states, on the basis of facts, that the most successful prison system in the world is also the most radically humane, which demonstrates that a humanitarian prison regime also makes a substantial contribution to the quality of penitentiary sentences in general and to social security in particular. Before our prison system can measure itself with the Scandinavian prison system, there is still an important way to go. If this measure has contributed to the detention conditions of detainees, who are acceptable from a humanitarian point of view and can continue to do so, then I dare to defend him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u39	Minister, I understand that you have a huge problem because of the overcrowding in prisons. I have therefore been advocating an increase in capacity for years. It cannot be a solution to allow criminals to wander around without any control, purely to bring down the number. With such a policy, you are only making the climate of impunity and laxity much worse. It must be very budgetary and the water must really be on your lips as a wise man if you are defending such an insane rule here. I think it is pure madness and hope that the evaluation will be there soon and that you will get off this system quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u40	Minister, I wish I could be more positive. I'm afraid you're a wise man defending such a thing. You must, of course, defend the policy, but this defies everything. We are told that there has been no consultation. That system was introduced in July. I've been visiting in Ruiselede recently. The people who work there are having a very difficult time with the regime that was suddenly imposed and on which they have been unable to prepare for anything. The prisoners who cannot enjoy this regime are jealous of the others who can enjoy it. That makes for a lot more resentment than there was before. I believe that, as with my other questions, you will not want to say in concrete terms when the evaluation will take place. It must be a boost for you, if everyone points out negative points and you think it is positive that you can submit a positive evaluation I would like to hear when the evaluation will come. It is not a question of referring to Scandinavia and claiming that this measure is also appropriate here. After all, we would have to take over the whole system of reintegration of detainees that applies there, and not just fragments of them to stop the overpopulation. I understand that you must continue to defend the policy a little bit, but I believe that you are welcome to attack the policy of the entire federal government, which provides too little money for justice so that you have to take such measures. You don't have to agree to everything, do you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic733x.u41	Questions Nos 20318 and 20544 by Mrs Özen are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 20648, 20649, 20688 and 20689 by Mr Maingain were postponed, as were Question No 20719 by Mrs Özen.
