ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u1	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Mr Clarinval, No 16032. Mr Flahaux and Mr No 16071 16383 by Mrs Jadin have been converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Onkelinx's 16503 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u2	Madam President, Minister, I should like to ask you again about the situation in the DRC. More than a month after the signing of the Saint-Sylvestre Agreement, the political situation remains blocked. Despite the fact that concessions have been made by both sides, there are still blocking points. First, there would still be differences in the Prime Minister's choice. Secondly, it would appear that the distribution of departmental positions and competencies would also pose major problems. The presidential camp, desiring to keep the reins of the state, would not let go of the regal posts. It is also known that the death of Etienne Tshisekedi also delayed the process. Thirdly, no discussion has yet taken place on a possible time line for the organisation of elections. Ombudsmen and opposition parties would like to hold elections at the end of 2017. However, given the backlog already accumulated, this scenario is already beginning to be called into question. Finally, the final point of disagreement between the parties of the majority and the opposition would be the holding of a referendum to reform the Constitution and blow up the padlock, which limits the number of mandates for the President of the Republic. Minister, what are the latest information you have about the situation on the ground? In the event that the situation emerges and a clear timetable is made public, do you think that it would be possible to use tranche funding to support the electoral process and to integrate our country, as part of a "3D" solution, into logistical support for this process?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u3	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, I met last week with the main protagonists of the political crisis in the DRC, at least those who were present in Brussels: the bishops of CENCO, on 7 February; my Congolese counterpart, Léonard She Okitundu, as well as two of the main leaders of the Congolese opposition Félix Tshisekedi and Moïse Katumbi, last Friday. Together with my interlocutors, I referred to the implementation of the political agreement reached on 31 December between the presidential majority and the Congolese opposition. As you mentioned, there are still some concerns about this, with the implementation of the agreement being the most difficult step. I reminded each one of them. It is particularly complicated to conclude an agreement but even more difficult to implement it. This is one of the elements found in many situations. I will insist on two points: first of all, the rapid appointment of a new Prime Minister. I know that there will then be a formation of the government that will not be simple, followed by the convening of the National Assembly to validate the appointment of the Prime Minister and his government. We must understand the spirit of the agreement of the Saint-Sylvestre. Until the elections are organised, President Kabila may remain in place provided that the Prime Minister appointed by the opposition takes office. The Prime Minister must be appointed as soon as possible. I would point out that the President, the Prime Minister and the other institutions are only supposed to provide an interim until the first election. Therefore, it is on the basis of the above-mentioned agreement that everyone can play a particular role during the transition period. The National Committee for the Follow-up to the Agreement, which must ensure the proper implementation of the Agreement, was to be chaired, because of its stature and in a way intuitu personae, by Etienne Tshisekedi. As long as discussions on its replacement as head of this Committee are under way, in my opinion – it is only an opinion – CENCO, which has an unquestionable moral authority, could play an important role and ensure the start of the transition. In addition to the prompt appointment of the Prime Minister, it is, in my view, appropriate to speed up the descriptors, as they were called in the agreements of the Saint-Sylvestre, and the settlement, in particular, of the emblematic case of Moses Katumbi. To answer your question about the situation in the Congo, I note that the hotbeds of conflict are increasing. This week, shots were heard in Kinshasa as part of an operation to arrest the leader of the Bundu Dia Kongo group. This operation has resulted in many casualties. In addition, there have also been dozens of deaths in recent days as a result of the local conflict in Kasai. A transitional government that had sufficient legitimacy to deal with the security situation, but also the severe deterioration of the socio-economic situation, was urgently needed. With regard to your question on the financing of elections, Belgium is insisting, within the European Union, on agreeing on the conditions to be laid down in order to decide on support. These are budgetary conditions, but also good management and transparency of the elections. If the conditions are met, this funding could actually be achieved gradually, in instalments, as you suggest. I am in contact with my cooperation colleague, but also with the European Union, which has the most substantial resources. The elements are linked. Indeed, the appointment of a new Prime Minister would allow for an interlocutor to discuss this situation with. Finally, with regard to the organisation of Etienne Tshisekedi's funeral, we are, of course, at the disposal of the family with whom I had contacts as soon as the death was announced. Again this Friday, I was in contact with Felix Tshisekedi. As I have just said, we are at the family's disposal to see how, after the tributes that have been paid in Brussels, we could imagine a return and the organization of funerals in Kinshasa. As I told the family leaders, it is obvious that our role is to try to make things easier and we expect decisions made by the family itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u4	Minister, thank you for that answer. You haven't answered a point. Can you tell me what has been said in relation to the referendum, during your contacts with your Foreign Affairs counterpart, Mr. She Okitundu? It's something that's starting to come back. Did he mention it at any point? Did you get any echoes that he'd put it back on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u5	I probably have the same echoes as you on a whole series of noises that have circulated in this area but it has been very clear on the implementation of the agreements, on the willingness to implement the agreements. Now the noises continue to exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u6	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Jadin and Mr. Van Peteghem to allow me to go before them to ask my question because I have to go to the Infrastructure Committee to vote. Deputy Prime Minister, you participated in the General Affairs Council on 7 February 2017, preliminary to the European Council of 9 and 10 March 2017 on a sustainable European future. This objective follows on from the Brexit which has many consequences which have many questions, positions calling for, and the relaunching of the European construction which must ensue. You mentioned the various points under discussion: - the revival of public and private investment, in Europe and particularly in the euro area, - the revival of economic dynamism, - job creation, - security and defence, including the strengthening of the European pillar of NATO, - migration, with proper control of external borders, an external migration policy and a review of asylum policy, - and an important climate policy. Anyway, there's a lot of work to do! First of all, on the type of Brexit to be implemented, which, according to the European country speaking, must be either a very conciliatory Brexit meeting all the demands of Great Britain with the risk of the infringement of the European project and its limitation to a free trade area, or a hard Brexit, based on the original objectives of European integration and the establishment of a customs union with Great Britain and any country leaving the European Union. This is also the position of the now Eurosceptic minister-president Paul Magnette. The first option would lead to a risk of renegotiation of their European commitment by some Nordic countries, as well as by some Eastern European countries, anxious to free themselves from the founding principles of the European Union, particularly in the field of democracy and human rights. To satisfy the supporters of the two options, the possibility of establishing a two-speed Europe with a hard core composed of the founding countries, capable of implementing more integrated policies, and another group bringing together the latest entrants, or a euro area moving faster in integration policies. With regard to investment, the deindustrialisation of Europe and the energy transition must call for a redefinition of the objectives by redefining the principle of free competition, in particular the principle of posted workers. Is it not time to move on to a dynamic convergence policy within the Union, supported by a European investment policy in order to create European champions capable of dealing with non-European competitors? The end of the social and fiscal competition implemented so far, in order to establish a genuine common fiscal and social policy, a promise still unfulfilled, seems to be a necessity in order to revive the desire for a common future between Europeans. In this respect, the ghost of Britain that said "no" has finally helped many other countries not to have to say "no" themselves. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, were these points raised at this meeting? Have the divergent readings come closer? Are the Member States of the Union putting in place a common reading of this Europe of tomorrow which must change in order not to die?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u7	Mr Flahaux, the General Affairs Council of 7 February did indeed address several "horizontal" issues, as they are called. The question of the future of the European Union as such was raised above all at the informal summit in Valletta on 3 February. A further discussion on this subject will take place in Rome to mark the sixtieth anniversary of the Treaty or Treaties of Rome on 25 March. On the sidelines of the informal summit in Malta, the three Benelux prime ministers made a joint statement expressing their common vision for the future of the European Union on behalf of the Benelux countries. With regard to the various points mentioned in your question, Belgium has always advocated a deepening of economic and monetary union and a genuine investment policy at European level. At the Valletta Summit, the Prime Minister also stressed the importance of curbing social dumping. We are really calling for progress in the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive. Of course, there are still differences within the 27 on these various points since the discussion is taking place in the absence of Britain in this context, even though the common will to move forward together was confirmed at the informal summit held in Valletta. What we cannot do immediately at 27, we can do in smaller numbers within, for example, the euro area and on the basis of the instruments that the Treaties provide for, such as enhanced cooperation. We will really continue to work in this direction in the preparation of what is already known as the Rome Declaration, which is due to take place at the end of March. I hope that this statement can contain a number of concrete points with an implementation plan. That is what we are working on, and I will continue to work within the General Affairs Council as well as in bilateral contacts with a number of colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u8	Mr Minister, I am very pleased with your answer, if only in times of difficulty, the Belgians have always shown extraordinary and positive European will. It is a little annoying to see that it is at that time that one of the regions of the country officially, through the voice of its minister-president, demonstrates its Euroepticism and I find this extremely disappointing: it is a gesture that should be denounced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u9	Mr Minister, the Muslim minority in Myanmar, the Rohingya, has, according to the UN, suffered atrocities by the law enforcement agencies of that country. This community, based mainly in Rakhine State, is said to have been the victim of rape, infant and young child murders and disappearances, according to the recently published United Nations report. These violations are followed by the destruction of property, houses, but also schools, set on fire by the army or the police. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mr Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, called on the international community to "strongly respond" while stressing that the Rohingya were facing an unprecedented level of violence. Has your department been aware of the report? What analysis does it make of the violations committed? Does your department confirm a level of violence that has never been equalled against this community? What is Belgium's position on human rights violations in this region? Have you had an opportunity to convey your position to the Government of Myanmar? Is a reaction envisaged by Belgium? If so, which?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u10	Mrs Jadin, my department and I have read the report of the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the Muslim minority of the Rohingya. It goes without saying that I share your concern and that the situation of this population seems to have deteriorated further in recent months. As you know, the European Union submits annually in March a resolution to the Human Rights Council in Geneva on the human rights situation in Myanmar. This will still be the case this year. Belgium will support this resolution. While acknowledging the progress made in the country, in general, since the opening in 2011, this resolution must clearly condemn human rights abuses, particularly against the Rohingya, but also call for concrete measures and commitments to put an end to them. Like the European Union and its various bodies, I will not fail to recall our deep concern about the situation of the Rohingya, in the event of a meeting with members of the Burmese government, but our diplomats are already doing so today. I will continue to do so as long as the situation does not improve. I had the opportunity to meet with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Malaysia at our conference on mediation, and I spoke of the reaction within the country and also within ASEAN on the situation in Myanmar. I think that within ASEAN there is a great deal of concern and that the demand is to be able, first of all, to have access to the populations concerned. I would point out that the first problem is the large number of refugees for whom, unfortunately, there is no direct access. Indeed, the Burmese authorities refuse any direct access and wish to receive the aid and distribute it themselves. This is obviously a problem. Like ASEAN and neighbouring countries, we wish to support this direct access approach. I confirm that the concern is strong, not only at Belgian level but at European level and in the countries of the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u11	Minister, we were talking about vigorous reactions. The strongest reaction will be this resolution, which condemns the facts that occur in this region, but no more is known.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u12	This is the situation in the Human Rights Council, but on the ground, the approach is taken to call for direct access. The refugees were first taken care of, and then the situation was improved. I visited Myanmar and this concern was already present. This is not a new phenomenon. Regrettably, the situation on the ground is worsening, which is deteriorating the image of a country that has seen significant improvements since 2010. That is what is unfortunate today. An attempt is also made to make it clear that, over the whole situation, improvements in this province would be preferable. But this is not the only place where this situation can occur. We're not always a minority everywhere. One can be majority in some places in one country and minority in others and suffer such consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u13	Madam President, Minister, a review of the regulations on environmental protection and the regulation of Antarctica activities is being prepared. In concrete terms, it is proposed that infrastructure and vehicles, placed in Antarctica as part of an activity for which a Belgian environmental permit was granted, should be considered to be located in Belgium. The extraterritorial jurisdiction proposed would be a completely new solution to Antarctic law. Article 9 of the Antarctic Treaty provides that States Parties shall consult on matters relating to the exercise of jurisdiction in Antarctica. Article 15 (3) of the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty provides for the consultation of the relevant international organisations. I would like to ask the following questions. How should Articles 9 and 15 be interpreted? What measures should be submitted? Was the draft law on the protection of the environment and the regulation of Antarctica activities under the jurisdiction of Belgium discussed with Norway and the other Contracting States prior to its submission to the Chamber? Were the relevant international organisations consulted? Heeft België het Annex VI Liability Arising From Environmental Emergencies van het Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty geratificeerd? Does ratification of the Protocol and its annexes require a cooperation agreement or is it an exclusive federal competence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u14	Madam President, Mr Van Peteghem, every year Belgium participates in the Antartic Treaty Consultative Meeting. The consultation at this meeting of all parties is intense and takes several forms: Committee for Environmental Protection, Intersessional Contact Groups and the plenary session of the Antartic Treaty Consultative Meeting. The issue of the jurisdiction of the Contracting Parties, to which you refer, is regularly raised in the discussions at the ATCM plenary meetings and the meetings of the Committee for Environmental Protection. This has been done in the past, inter alia, in response to acts of vandalism in Antarctica and unauthorised visits, which led to expensive search and rescue operations involving also deaths. There is a consensus that the contracting parties should assume their responsibility to ensure that their nationals respect the provisions of the Antarctic Treaty and the environmental protocol, and that the infrastructure in Antarctica should not be the starting point for unregulated activities. In 2014, at the ATCM meeting, Belgium submitted an information report on the exercise of national jurisdiction over assets in Antarctica, which highlighted, inter alia, the idea of a national registry. There was therefore an active consultation with our partners. The draft law submitted in the Chamber by Mr Marghem, Mr Van Overtveldt, Mr Sleurs and myself, aims to apply Belgian law to infrastructure or vehicles placed in Antarctica under a Belgian licence. These are the provisions of Annex VI on liability in Belgian law. For the purposes of the ratification procedure in Belgium of Annex VI, the relevant text was submitted to the Working Party on Mixed Treaties, which is to decide whether or not to mix the Federal, Region, Communities or the Federal Republic of Belgium of Annex VI. On the basis of the findings of the Working Group, the further procedure will be determined, i.e. only federal ratification or ratification in other entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u15	Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u16	Madam President, Minister, Bangladesh has made progress on the status of women. However, it would appear that new legislation aimed at eliminating marriages of minors could include a "special circumstances" clause which would require, inter alia, raped girls to marry their aggressor. So far, the Prime Minister has defended the "special circumstances" clause, arguing that when a girl of rural origin was a victim of rape or was pregnant, marriage was a lesser evil. It's implausible, but that's how it is. Alternatives exist to better protect them. It could thus pass a law so that rural girls and their children could attend school without bearing the name of their father, and develop the new national plan of action to assist girls in "special circumstances", including rape. Minister, what information do you have about the evolution of women's rights, both at the societal, social, political and legal levels, in Bangladesh? What are the possibilities for dialogue with that country and the attitude of Belgian diplomacy in order to urge the Prime Minister of Bangladesh to eliminate this clause and to promote a national plan of action to make young women safe?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u17	Madam President, Mr Blanchart, since you were lucky enough to ask this question at the same time as Mrs Lijnen, I have a mixed answer in both languages. Bangladesh is indeed struggling with one of the highest rates of child marriage, as the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women last year established when discussing the periodic report submitted by the Government of Bangladesh. The CEDAW is made up of international experts and ensures compliance with the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, which was ratified by Bangladesh. The special rapporteur on violence against women came to the same conclusion during her visit to Bangladesh a few years ago. I share your concern, like the CEDAW, about the high number of child marriages and the present bill. Because of the complexity of the problem and the long-term perspective inherently linked to the eradication of such practices, Belgium is mainly engaged in this fight at European and UN level. For example, our country actively supports the resolutions on child marriages in both the General Assembly and the Human Rights Council. Like the UN and the EU, our country will continue to monitor closely the further development of this bill. The European Union held its last consultation with Bangladesh on good governance and human rights on 20 December 2016. The topic of women's and children's rights was of course on the agenda. We will still have the opportunity to carry out complementary bilateral or multilateral actions in this context. I remind you that we are members of the United Nations Human Rights Council. We will once again have the opportunity to intervene on this subject in this context. We will see what joint actions we can take, particularly with the European representation in Bangladesh, to ensure that we do everything possible to ensure that such texts do not succeed. You will recall that it has recently taken a lot of steps to ensure that similar texts in Turkey, even if I do not compare them completely, do not lead to implementation after a vote in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u19	Minister, we asked a few questions about the United States last week. We now hear that your colleague for Asylum and Migration, Theo Francken, believes that the current system allowing Belgian citizens to travel relatively visa-free to the US is in danger or could come into danger. The United States would have indicated that they see Brussels as a channel for European terrorists to travel to the US. Hence our questions. Did you receive the same signals from the United States? Is there, in your view, a legitimate cause for concern that visa-free travel would indeed be restricted? How will our country react if it is effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u20	Mr van Peteghem, I am always trying to provide an answer on the basis of facts, decisions, as some time ago with regard to the visa ban for seven countries. I will now. I will not respond on the basis of a procedure that has not been in force so far. I can give you some elements. A delegation from mainly the US Department of Homeland Security, i.e. the Immigration Service, visits the countries benefiting from a visa waiver for the US every two years. It will examine whether a number of security guarantees are still being met, including on the security of travel documents, the control of access to the territory, the exchange on terrorism and organised crime. Several Belgian administrations are involved in this evaluation: Home Affairs, the Foreign Affairs Office, the Federal Police, Foreign Affairs and Justice, to name but a few. The latest evaluation took place from 28 November to 1 December 2016. There are, of course, points on which further discussions are needed, for example the exchange of fingerprints from Belgian databases requested by the US. This involves aspects of privacy, and possibly also the conclusion of treaties that cannot necessarily be settled in the very short term. I cannot estimate to what extent this poses a risk to the survival of the Visa Waiver programme. The US delegation is preparing a report on the countries that have been evaluated. Ultimately, this will lead to a decision that will be notified to us by the US authorities. However, I cannot anticipate our country's reaction if the US were to effectively decide to tighten travel from Belgium to the US. There is no doubt that consultation at European level will play a role in this. I would like to add two more elements. First of all, there is the response of the United States Embassy in Brussels, which states that there is no real problem with Belgians. A second element is that it is an overall assessment, with many different countries. It is not just an evaluation of Belgium. We have no real reason to fear that this is a normal assessment by the United States. However, we have also seen the different decisions of the new President and there is always doubt about possible new developments in the United States. However, there is no specific problem for Belgium. Belgium undergoes the regular evaluation, like several other countries. As far as we are concerned, it was done at the end of November or early December.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If I understand correctly, has the report been drawn up from the United States and you have already received it? Is that what we're being sent?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u22	So far, I haven't gotten anything. That report goes first to the authorities in the United States. We have received an initial response in response to our questions. We have been asked some very specific questions and, like other countries, we have tried to give all the details. We are now waiting for the report, but that report will first go to the US authorities. I can also perhaps say that we are expecting a visit from the Vice-President of the United States in a few days' time, and that will also be the subject of discussion. We will repeat that we have no reason to be afraid because, in our view, we are in the same situation as after the previous evaluation. We will convey that message to the US authorities. We are waiting for a final report, for a final decision. This is also the case in other countries. There is no particular reason to fear more in Belgium than in other countries, except for a possible very specific decision by the new President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u23	Thank you. It is good to hear that there should indeed be no concern or need to be. We all understand that such a entanglement would have an important influence and impact on the economy, but also on many Belgians travelling to the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u24	Minister, in the capital Vitoria of the Brazilian state of Espirito Santo, a hundred people have already died because the police cannot pull out. They were blocked in their own barracks by their family members out of discontent with their remuneration. As a result there was chaos in the city itself and the army had to pull out to restore peace. At the same time, it was feared that the situation might have an effect in other states, including Rio de Janeiro. What is the current situation in Vitoria? Are there Belgian tourists on the spot and what is their situation? I suppose there's already more clarity about the situation in Vitoria? Are Belgian expats or Belgian residents involved? What is the status of the security services in Brazil according to your services? What assessment do your services make of the evolution of the security situation in Brazil? Does the estimation of your services justify further changes to the travel advice for Brazil?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u25	In the state of Espirito Santo, according to my available information, the situation would be normalizing again. Public transport, health services, schools, banks and others have re-established their activities. The balance of the crisis is heavy. According to the latest data, 147 deaths occurred in nine days. TravellersOnline, the online database for Belgian tourists of the FPS Foreign Affairs, mentions three Belgian tourists in the state of Espirito Santo. The Belgian Consulate General in Rio de Janeiro has been able to contact two of them and they have confirmed that they have no problems. The third person has not yet been able to reach them, but there are no reasons to believe that that person would be in trouble. We keep trying to reach that person. The total number of Belgians living and registered in the State of Espirito Santo at the General Consulate of Rio de Janeiro is 45, of which 15 are in the City of Vitoria. All registered persons were contacted by the Consulate General and have confirmed that they are not in difficulty. About half of them were born in Belgium and can therefore be considered expats. In the state of Rio de Janeiro, relatives of members of the military police, who perform tasks similar to those of the local police, have also partially blocked barracks to express their displeasure. These are non-violent demonstrations. The Brazilian government has nevertheless decided to deploy soldiers of the regular army in the streets of Rio in view of the imminent carnival. Several other barracks of the military police in the states of Minas Gerais, Maranhão and Rio Grande do Norte were also blocked. However, the military police are still able to carry out their duties. Both the Belgian Embassy in Brasilia and the Consulates General in São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro are closely following the situation. The travel advice will be adjusted whenever necessary after consultation between our posts in Brazil and the foreign services. We will try to get in touch with the last people in the state of Espirito Santo and see if they may have a problem. So far there have been no serious problems for the Belgians on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic599x.u26	Minister, it is already reassuring that our compatriots, as far as we can reach them, are safe and not experiencing too many problems, but the situation in Brazil has really not improved since the deposition of Dilma Roussef. Also the current president appears to be surrounded by a blur of scandals. The file on Petrobras is still in the air. We have an interest in a stable situation in South America and specifically in Brazil, not only for our compatriots on the ground, but also for the country itself, of course. If Brazil wants to get out of the economic recession, it is important that it has a stable political policy. It is a country that we must follow closely and you must try to provide as much help as possible.
