ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I read an article in La Capitale of 11 March which explicitly refers to warlike propaganda, as the President rightly described the question, which is spread by the Belgian section of the AKP on social media. That poster was sent around via Facebook and contains in Turkish the text "I don't know Turkish," but I have been led to believe that this is the exact translation: "This battle is one between the moon and the cross." Let's unite under the crescent moon. You will see that we are very many!" The text is accompanied by a drawing where the crescent and cross are clearly used as weapons, she leaves nothing to the imagination. It is clear that this AKP department has shown itself to be very active and aggressive in recent weeks as a result of the referendum in Turkey. Even if I look at that poster, she is campaigning here in a warlike manner for the Turkish community and the Turkish Belgians who live in this country. The poster of which there is only one example. However, if one analyses them on the substance, one can only give the meaning that the Turks must fight our Christian civilisation here, apparently with the aim of subjecting ourselves to Islam or, at worst, sweeping us completely off the map. That final objective is not included. It is true that the AKP department in Belgium can apparently count on strong support from groups living in this country. It is also striking that there is a rather indifferent attitude from the authorities. The reason for this poster and the article in La Capitale was a meeting in Saint Joost-ten-Node, which could take place there without any problem and where such messages could be distributed. Mr. Secretary, was this poster intercepted by the security services? Does this fall within what is legally possible in this country? If not, as I suspect, what follow-up was given? Secondly, do you have a view of the activities that this party is all engaged in in this country? To what extent are these activities being tolerated? Do you think that, when elections or referendums are held in some third country, the electoral battle can and may be fought in our country, even if this is contrary to the basic values of our society, as is clearly the case here? If you think this is not possible, what is the government going to do about it? What is the government's position, more specifically in relation to the election meetings and other propaganda organised by the AKP here and there in Europe for the Turkish diaspora? Do you think that's admissible? How do you frame it in the government's policy on the integration of migrants into our country? What conclusions does the government draw from this with regard to the dual nationality of many migrants? Are there any consequences in that direction? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u2	Mrs Pas, as far as the integrated police are concerned, I can answer that the police know about the distributed poster. The police have also been aware of the various searches of congress halls across the country to allow AKP activities to continue in this respect. That information shall be shared with those responsible by the appropriate means. I understand the flow of information is going well. The positions and agreements in the government are clear in the sense that the legal channels of jurisdiction for such decisions must be followed. This means that the Prime Minister will also be informed if I were to be taken into account in a subsidiary order. For a number of elements of your questions, I refer to the answers I have given to a party member of yours two weeks in a row, but I will add a few more. We have a very nice democratic system based on basic freedoms: freedom of association, freedom of assembly, freedom of the press and so on. As a Flemish nationalist, I am very pleased that we have these freedoms and that the debate can therefore be conducted in a peaceful, non-violent manner. That goes for every citizen of our country. That's freedom of speech. People in our country even have the right to spread crazy opinions. I'm not going to give examples of what an idiot opinion is and what isn't. Every citizen of this country has these freedoms. The question that arises is as follows: when will we end up in illegality? There are the laws on racism, negationism and inciting violence. That is basically the legal framework in which the offence of opinion must be placed. I will not hide the fact that this is a difficult debate. The extremes can easily be recognized, but between the two they end up in a continuum. I would almost dare say fifty shades of grey between white and black. My services keep an eye on when something can be considered as "inciting violence" or "racism." Where appropriate, action shall be taken against it. There is also a need for action in the event of a threat to public order. It'll be the mayor who has to act first. I'm not saying this to wallow my responsibility. In the case of the AKP and such, there is always contact between my services and the local mayor so that he has all the information. We sometimes have additional information at our disposal. Until now, we have always reached an agreement, which is why no meetings of this kind have taken place since then. I am committed to the legal framework, just like my services, by the way. If you believe that the legal framework is not satisfactory, as a representative of the people, you should try to find a majority in Parliament to extend the legal arsenal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u3	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I'm glad the flow of information is going well. I fully share his opinion on the freedom of assembly and expression that I am very close to. I do realize that the boundary between what is allowed and what cannot always be drawn is not always clear, but that was precisely my question. Don't you think, Minister, that this poster is breaking the law? Isn't this calling for ethnic cleansing? That's warlike propaganda, isn't it? This is covered by the legislation that already exists today, isn't it? I am not saying that this legislation is not satisfactory. The legislation exists and you say yourself that you will act if a violation is detected. My question is therefore whether you do not think this is the case with this poster? I can only say that despite the good flow of information and the fact that this poster is known, no action has been taken against it. That was just my question and unfortunately I did not receive an answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u4	Mr Minister, last October I submitted a request for an interpretation of the fact that the Brussels Government, with an order and a circular letter, has greatly reduced the monitoring of the local authorities in Brussels on the language law in administrative matters. In my view, the abolition of the language law in administrative matters is illegal and contrary to a number of provisions introduced by the federal legislator to protect the Dutch speakers in Brussels. The time frame of an oral question does not allow me to repeat the whole legal aspect, but you undoubtedly know what I am talking about. I can refer to the text of my interplay request at the time. I was unable to keep my interplay in committee because of circumstances. You did, however, give me a written reply in which you promised to seek the opinion of the Standing Committee on Language Control on the matter and in which you recalled that the Council of Ministers had the opportunity to bring proceedings before the Constitutional Court on this matter. That's why I'm asking for follow-up today. Firstly, what question did your cabinet put to the Permanent Committee on Language Monitoring? When did that happen? Secondly, did you receive an answer? What are the findings of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring? Thirdly, are you prepared to bring the dossier before the Council of Ministers with a view to initiating proceedings before the Constitutional Court? What is your motivation to do that or not? Finally, would you consider any other steps such as an arrangement on the Consultation Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u5	Ms Pas, on 21 October 2016 I asked the Permanent Commission for Linguistic Monitoring the following question:..The decree of 23 June 2016 and the decision of 8 September 2016 of the Brussels-Capital Region deal with the monitoring of compliance with language laws in administrative matters. Does this decree and this decision affect the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters which are intended to ensure that every local service of Brussels Capital in its relations with a private individual uses the language used by that language, in so far as that language is French or the Netherlands? I refer to Article 19 of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters. On 20 December 2016, I received the following reply from the Standing Committee: "The Standing Committee is empowered, on the basis of Article 60 of the SWT, to monitor the application of the SWT. However, the order and decision you mention in your question regulate matters outside the scope of the SWT. The period for initiating proceedings with the government at the Constitutional Court has now expired and cases are dealt with in the Consultation Committee in which decisions of a government affect another government. Compliance with the language law in the Brussels-Capital Region is an internal Brussels matter and is therefore not a matter for the Consultation Committee. Belgium's constitutional classification does not supersede the federal government, but rather the Länder. We are very happy about that; that is quite unique in the world. We do not have the principle of Bundesrecht bricht Landesrecht. It's not my ambition to change anything about this, absolutely not. The legislator has built in sufficient guarantees to prevent one language group from taking decisions to the detriment of another language group in Brussels. For this reason, the Brussels Government provides for a parity between Dutch-speaking and French-speaking ministers, each language group being able to ensure that language laws are respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but I have some doubts about the question you raised to the Permanent Committee on Language Monitoring. The question is not so much whether the order, the circular letter and the decisions are contrary to the language law, as you put it, but whether they are contrary to the guarantees in the special Brussels law to the standstill principle of Article 5. The VCT's answer is logical to the question you asked, but I think it is the wrong question. You yourself refer to the fact that the deadline for going to the Constitutional Court has now expired for six months. So the fish drowned. I can only hope that it is not aware that the wrong questions have been asked with the intention of drowning the fish. Hoping it's been incompetence is also a bad formulation. I wonder what's the worst of both. It certainly seems to me that everything has been done to drown the case and not to bring it to the Council of Ministers to go to the Constitutional Court. I can only regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u7	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, according to a study carried out by the JUMP association, almost 98% of Belgian women have already been subjected to harassment on the street at least once. In addition, at least 50% of our fellow citizens have already been affected by unknowns in public space, according to a global study by Cornell University. Of course, in 2014 our country adopted a law criminalizing sexism. However, in fact, very few complaints would be filed in relation to the total number of unacceptable acts. I quote the founder of the Association Touche pas à ma pal!Handen af! Stop seksism, which recently appeared in the press on this subject: "We can give three explanations for this. The first is that, as explained, women do not know that they can file a complaint. Secondly, police officers are sometimes unaware of the existence of such a law, which is still young. Finally, those who are aware of this do not know under which nomenclature to file the victim's complaint." Deputy Prime Minister, I have no doubt about the willingness of the government and law enforcement to combat the harassment of women on the streets. However, it must be noted that more effort is needed, as the testimony on this subject is of particular concern. Do you have any data on the harassment of women on the street? What is the state of affairs in our country? In terms of law enforcement training, what is planned to improve the management of this problem, including the support of victims and the firm repression of harassers? Finally, can you tell us whether campaigns are planned, in synergy with other levels of power, to encourage victims to file complaints and break the silence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u8	Mr Calomne, it is sometimes useful to read colleagues' questions. You could have had answers earlier. But since my respect for Parliament is infinite, I will repeat what I said last week. First of all, with regard to your data question, it should have been a written question. So I sent you the information. The General National Data Bank (BNG) is a police database where facts are recorded on the basis of minutes resulting from judicial and administrative police missions. It allows counting on different statistical variables such as the number of recorded events, the procedure, the objects linked to the offence, the means of transport used, the destinations, etc. On the basis of this definition of BNG, it is possible, on the basis of the minutes, to identify the number of offences registered under the Act of 22 May 2014 to combat sexism in public space and to amend the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men in order to penalise the act of discrimination. Thirty-five offences were registered in the first three quarters of 2016. In 2015, eighteen facts were identified as part of gender-based discrimination at the national level. As mentioned in the reply to Mr.Pivin's parliamentary question of 17 March on violence and aggression against women in public spaces, the code of conduct only exists since 2015 in the police nomenclature. The number of incidents recorded by the police in relation to physical, sexual and psychological violence in public space is known. The table I'm going to give you shows the number of incidents of violence recorded by the police for 2014, 2015 and until the third quarter of 2016, taking up the three types of violence, and the places where they took place. It is not possible to pass on the victim data to you because they have not been recorded. We are currently amending the general national database to obtain this type of information. The technical and functional analysis of this system is under way. It must be ready by the end of the first half of 2017, before the summer holidays. The basic training of inspectors ensures that they are sensitized to the subject and pass on the knowledge needed to deal with this type of problem, particularly with regard to the reception and assistance of victims (cluster 8), and the societal context (cluster 12). In-service training specific to street harassment was provided and organised in Brussels in 2016. It must be deployed to the other police schools, in addition to the one in Brussels. In June, my new colleague Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, Zuhal Demir, will launch a campaign against sexual intimidation on the street in consultation with civil society. This campaign not only aims to reach out to the general public and to make them aware of the daily reality faced by many women, but it also aims to make people aware of the precise meaning of sexual intimidation and the facts for which it is possible to complain or not. The implementation must provide police officers with the opportunity to detect and identify problem areas, as victims can quickly and easily identify where they have been subjected to sexual intimidation. In addition, the application will explain what acts are punishable. It will give a voice to the victims and indicate which police station is nearest to them so that they can immediately lodge a complaint if they so wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u9	Mr President, I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his answer, especially since some of the questions had already been asked by my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I have asked you regularly about the situation of Tihange 1 power station at the end of September. Our last exchange dates back to February 22, a month ago. At this stage, Electrabel announces a revival at the end of March, in eight days' time. What is the status of the pre-NCF decision analysis? Will the PSAN be able to provide its final response by the end of March? What does the characterization of the basement give? Can you describe as clearly as possible the contents of the poorly compacted embankment? Where did this embankment come from? Is it of quality? Is he stable? Is it homogeneous? Has this layer of embankment been taken into account in seismic calculations prior to the launch of Tihange 1. Are the buildings of the plant also based on the same type of embankment as the W building which is attached to it and which today poses so many problems? In your response of 22 February, you pointed out the rationale for the stability of the Tihange 1 safety structures located on the weakly consolidated embankment layer as the main point to be clarified. At the time, the Authority considered that the stability of certain structures on this layer was not sufficiently demonstrated. What now is happening on the eve of the announced recovery date? Should a seventh extension of the reopening date be expected? You also told us that the acceptability of physical, dynamic and transient displacements as well as permanent displacements in the event of an earthquake were not sufficiently demonstrated. What now? The safety authority also requested clarification and justification of certain parameters for soil control and comfort, as well as a plan for monitoring the settlement of structures. What about this third part? Can you explain where we are? Has Electrabel submitted all the necessary documents? Has AFCN ever given the operator a return? Did it require additional information? If so, which ones? Can you now tell us clearly what the analysis has given with regard to the seismic resistance calculations of the building? At what level is resistance guaranteed? Is it at a higher level than before September 7, 2016? Can you finally tell us what still needs to be done and/or tested and/or analyzed before you can consider a possible restart?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u11	Mr Nollet, you are right, we have already, on many occasions, exchanged on this subject, and you will have an excellent follow-up. That's an example. Since our last exchange, which dates back to February 22, the various documents and studies are still being analysed. In so doing, no conclusions can be drawn, so I cannot provide you with a detailed answer to your many questions. As you probably already know, the main point of discussion between Electrabel and the Safety Authority is the justification for the stability of the Tihange 1 safety structures located on the weakly consolidated embankment layer, i.e. their carrying capacity and settlements. The Safety Authority considers that the stability of certain Tihange 1 structures located on the weakly consolidated embankment layer is not sufficiently demonstrated. The Safety Authority is currently analysing the documents received with a view to assessing the extent to which the questions to date have been answered convincingly and with a view to assessing whether the safety of the facility is demonstrated. The investigation is therefore still ongoing. As already mentioned several times, the dates of restart announced are expressed by the operator and not by the Safety Authority. The Commission cannot decide on the possible date for restarting the Tihange 1 reactor until all safety studies provided by the operator have been evaluated and accepted. I can assure you that no relaunch can be envisaged without the approval of the Safety Authority. All safety demonstrations will be reviewed before the green light for a restart is given. The analysis of the subsoil samples shows the presence mainly of shale (burned shale, black shale and red shale), but also of volontarily, traces of coal, pyrite and, to a lesser extent, the presence of inflating clay or gypsum. The lack of impact of less compacted areas on seismic resistance calculations of the building concerned is being assessed. Some of the buildings at Tihange 1 are based on the same embankment layer. These buildings are therefore also subject to a safety assessment. Finally, the required level of safety, as for example, the seismic resistance level of the building is the same as that prevailing before 7 September 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u12	Minister, thank you for the follow-up. However, do you confirm that the subsurface type of the reactor is the same as the subsurface type of the W reactor?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u13	Mr Nollet, we are asking the questions. We can imagine that, close to the site, the same problem arises.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u14	Minister, I thought the answer had already been given and it was negative. In reality, we continue to investigate and verify. It makes sense, in any case, that if the buildings are close, the same risk arises. The most worrying is that the contents of the embankment reveal a heterogeneity of the materials. I didn't even have time to write it down, but I'll read their description in the transcript. For me, it is relatively obvious that the coal layer is not stable and that it can no longer be stabilized. However, you do not tell us whether this was taken into account when calculating the initial risks. You're telling me we're going to calculate them now. It's normal, that's what you have to do. But you do not tell me whether, during the evaluation in 1975 - when the plant was inaugurated - they were taken into account. I feel like we've discovered this layer of embankment recently, and now we're tinkering. I am not criminalizing the Federal Agency, which seems to me to be exploring the problem thoroughly. I'm targeting the operator. That said, as far as I can understand, it cannot commit itself to a deadline for reopening or final closure, so far as it could indicate to us that the deadline for relaunching, namely 30 March, is not tenable. I suppose you certainly know more than I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u15	Mr Nollet, as I said earlier, I am not responsible for determining the date of reopening.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u16	I'm not saying you're responsible, but maybe you have the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u17	If the investigation has not yet provided information, I suspect that we will not decide to reopen in eight days.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u18	Very sincerely, my thinking is the same as yours, but I preferred it to be said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u19	Reasonably, it is not possible to reopen next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u20	All right. I'll wait for the new report and come and interview you in a few weeks, as I used to. The remaining issues are not devoid of importance. Of course, I understand that you cannot answer me, since the Agency does not yet have all the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u21	Minister, the week of March 10, 2017, our F-16s had to intervene urgently to intercept an Indian airline aircraft coming from Germany and flying towards the United Kingdom, which no longer responded to radio calls. In the face of this situation, all German power stations seem to have been evacuated and only the personnel absolutely necessary for the safety of the reactors have remained in place. Since I am not certain of the accuracy of my information, Minister, I wanted to check this with you. Were they German, French or Dutch power stations? What measures, at the same time and in the face of the same situation and the same potential threat, have been taken at home in Tihange, Doel but also in Mol and Fleurus? What are the requirements for nuclear sites in such situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u22	Mr Nollet, this event was not a direct threat to nuclear facilities. Therefore, the OCAM and the crisis centre felt that there was no need to notify the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. As part of its mission of protecting the population, the environment and workers from the dangers of ionizing radiation, therefore, no specific measures were taken by the AFCN as a result of this event. However, it is important to point out that, for each nuclear site, there are internal procedures specifying the appropriate measures to be taken in the event of an emergency. However, I would like to repeat that the possibility of a fall in aircraft was taken into account at the time of the design of the Belgian nuclear power plants and was also analysed as part of their periodic safety review. Following the attacks of 11 September 2001, a full reassessment of the risk of falling aircraft of terrorist origin was carried out for the Doel and Tihange reactors. In 2011-2012, the operator re-analyzed the available aircraft fall studies as part of the stress testing program. These analyses are representative for the types of aircraft encountered in Belgian airspace. On the basis of the results of the stress tests, additional measures were taken at the sites of the Belgian nuclear power plants to increase the robustness of the installations in the face of a plane fall. Additional means of extinguishing have, for example, been installed at the sites in order to be able to quickly extinguish a kerosene fire following an aircraft fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u23	Mr Minister, why, in this case, did a neighbouring country, unlike us, consider it necessary to evacuate nuclear power plants? This is a question that remains unanswered at this stage. Secondly, with regard to the aircraft that you are referring to, I am not going to repeat the debate that we have often come back to, but I suppose you have learned about the type of aircraft that flew over Belgium that day, with which the connection with the power stations was no longer taking place. According to my information, it was a 787, a much larger plane than the 767 used for the test. This means that the parameters taken into account cannot be taken into account here to state that we had the guarantee that there was no problem. I am not saying that the intention was to harm our nuclear power plants. You said you didn't. I have spoken on the whole, because in your answer, you have gone outside the framework, which is very well, of the question of the measures taken in this kind of situation. I find this disturbing, from the moment a neighbouring country evacuated what has not been the case with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic624x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament 17271 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez will be answered by Secretary of State Francken. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Devin's 17282 was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament 17297 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu will be converted into a written question. Questions Nos 17339 and 17353 by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions.
