ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u1	Mr President, the second question was actually addressed to the Prime Minister. They are on the same subject, but I will put the questions together. Madam Minister, at the end of January, De Standaard published the message that the N-VA no longer believes in the feasibility of the core trip. A while later, a message was also published in De Tijd that the Dutch Minister for the Environment, Mrs Schultz van Haegen, confirmed in the Dutch House of Representatives that government party N-VA would like to keep some Belgian nuclear power plants open longer. The Dutch Minister spoke of an extension until 2030 and even 2035. So your coalition partner N-VA doesn't seem to see 2025 as a hard deadline. In fact, we have known this for a long time, but now Minister Jambon would have made that known to his Dutch colleague for the Environment. According to previous statements in Parliament, it is mainly the N-VA to do so in terms of security of supply. As a result, the party has been delaying the core exit for some time. I would have liked to have had an answer from you to the following questions. Can you give more information on the claims made by Minister Jambon and on the confirmation by the Dutch Minister? Is it still your intention to realise the core exit in 2025? Can you confirm this again? Are you aware that, as long as there is uncertainty about long-term energy policy and the security of supply associated with it, these parties question the key exit? When will you come to Parliament with your energy vision? Then I have the parallel questions that I had addressed to the Prime Minister. I assume you will reply on behalf of the Council of Ministers and on behalf of the Prime Minister. I will not repeat these questions here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u2	I would like to know what is going on with the energy pact and its four working groups led by each of the ministers. These groups are studying the flexibility of interconnections for you, governance for your Brussels colleague, the functioning of the market for the new Minister Lacroix, and production for your colleague Tommelein. We know you met for an interim review on March 15th. It is assumed that since then the work has continued. Can you give us an overview of the progress of the work, the first results and agreements, as well as inform us of what is stagnating, of the forthcoming meetings planned, of how Parliament should be involved and of the final date of the work? On the other hand, more specifically on the nuclear issue, did one of the four ministers (or one of their representatives) ask to open the debate on an extension of nuclear power beyond 2025, or could it be considered that this option is no longer taken into account in the drafting of the pact?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u3	As the President spoke, Mr de Lamotte was relieved of this heavy task. I will answer these two slightly different questions in two parts. First of all, on the basis of articles in the Dutch-speaking press, you state that the N-VA itself reported to my counterpart, Dutch Environment Minister Melanie Schultz, that it would not consider the release of nuclear power in 2025. I will check these articles, which I have not seen, and I do not doubt your information at all. On the other hand, as I have already done in committee, I would like to remind you, Mr Nollet, on 14 February. You were self-chairing this commission, one very special day. I have told you that the government agreement is particularly clear and that, as a minister to implement a government agreement that provides for the release of nuclear power in 2025, there is obviously no question of calling into question this fundamental element which is precisely contained in this agreement and which we stand by. I don't know what wind this information brought. Naturally, everyone can always express himself and say what he thinks of a particular subject. I shall turn to the answer to Mr Nollet's second question. Your question was related to an article in Le Soir, where I had indicated that such a debate could only be considered in an energy pact if the four ministers around the table opened this issue, but that it would in any case run counter to the federal government's agreement to release nuclear power in 2025. None of the four ministers opened this question in the context of the work of the Pact. On the energy pact and its progress, I replied to Mr de Lamotte on 16 March last in plenary that our next meeting was scheduled for 26 April. How to explain work, which is currently being carried out between collaborators by meetings of inter-federal intercabinets, one of which will take place again this week, in order to prepare our work on 26 April next. I cannot tell you more than you already know, that each Region has a theme, to which it assigns notes, which are shared and worked out before we meet again on 26 April, at the end of the concertation committee, which will take place that day, to continue the work of the energy pact, that is to say, the elaboration of the inter-federal vision, from which will result the concrete measures that will constitute this pact. In terms of timing, our wish is to finish at the end of the year. Between April 26 and the end of the year, I can't tell you anything yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u4	Madam Secretary, I can give you the articles. The issue is rather alarming, because the article by De Tijd Minister Jambon states that this would have been reported to the minister in the Netherlands. In the article in De Standaard, Mr Gryffroy, the national representative for the N-VA in the Flemish Parliament, states that it is no longer believed that the core exit is feasible by 2025. Perhaps some things should be discussed. Yes, I'll give them to you. In any case, I am a little reassured, as you reply that you will still be implementing the coalition agreement. With the energy pact, of course, we are late. I hope you'll have everything ready in time. In any case, it is really necessary that we stick to the core exit and to its date. If we extend that trip again, we will never achieve our environmental objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u5	I have also read the articles to which my colleague refers. They alerted me, if they didn't worry. On the other hand, Madam Minister, your reply reassures me that the government agreement provides for the release of nuclear power by 2025 and, above all, that no other minister, including the Flemish regional minister, was asking for a rediscussion on the extension beyond 2025 as part of the drafting of the pact. This answer is therefore clear in relation to individual surprises. I assume that the agenda is sufficiently provided to close this chapter and that, at subsequent meetings, we will not see back through the window what seems to be being evacuated by the cellars today, namely the possibility of an extension. For the rest, I will take stock on a regular basis. We will not wait until the end of the year to see how the situation is changing. I take note of the fact that the next meeting will take place on 26 April. We'll question you in the meantime. Madam President, I would like to point out that my colleague Mr Calvo wishes to turn his oral questions into written questions. He'll pick up the answers later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u6	Mr Nollet, I would remind you that we will have hearings on the pact next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u7	I will send one or the other representative from my office to attend.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u8	Questions Nos 16940 and 17574 by Mr Calvo are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u9	Minister, in accordance with the law and the agreement, the mandate of CREG is to annually verify the level of the Tihange 1 fee. In order to carry out its mission, the CREG obviously needs to receive from the owners the calculation of the margin for the past year. This information is to be transmitted by 30 March. Minister, have the owners forwarded the margin calculation for 2016 to CREG? Has an amendment to the agreement been signed to clarify how the fee is to be calculated and to avoid the uncertainties encountered in the past year? If so, has CREG been consulted in the development of this amendment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u10	Minister, we know that for 2015, Electrabel had underestimated the fee due for the extension of Tihange 1. To prevent the same problem from recurring every year, an amendment to the Tihange 1 Convention was to be signed on the basis of Roland Berger's recommendations by March 31, 2017. When was this amendment signed? What is its content, can you give us a copy? What fee calculation did Electrabel submit to CREG and when? What is the amount resulting from this calculation, particularly in view of the closure of this old power plant since 7 September 2016 but knowing that even if this charge is negative, it is relevant for estimating the margins of subsequent years? Can I ask you to make all the transparency on these different aspects?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u11	Colleagues, first of all, I would like to point out that the Act of 18 September 2013, which amends the Act of 31 January 2003 on the release of nuclear power, has further postponed the date of the deactivation of Tihange 1, set up a fee for this extension and introduced the possibility of signing a convention. This agreement is dated 12 March 2014. As a reminder, the annual fee is equal to 70% of the margin, i.e. income less cost taking into account investment costs, an annual remuneration of 9.3% on investments and a carry-over of any negative annual balance. In 2016, as provided for by the Convention, the owners – Electrabel and EDF Belgium – forwarded to CREG the elements necessary for its mission and paid the undisputed amount, according to them. CREG then carried out its analysis and verification mission. On that occasion, she had noted, you will remember, five differences with the owners. An independent expert in casu, the Roland Berger office, was mandated at the end of September to resolve these contentious issues between the owners and the CREG. It had also been asked to draw up recommendations in order to avoid recurring subsequent problems such as a complicated interpretation of certain parameters, to supplement their possible absence and, consequently, to strengthen the stability of the convention. The independent expert issued his report on 18 October. It was transmitted to you the next day in its official version. That is how the issue was decided for the previous fiscal year. It also submitted recommendations for each aspect of the dispute. Several of you had expressed at the meetings on 20 and 27 September the need to resolve the issues properly in the future. So it was done. An amendment to the Tihange 1 Convention of 12 March 2014 was drawn up during the period from January to March of this year, frozen in one text on 16 March and signed on 31 March. It is limited to transposing the five recommendations submitted by the independent expert in his report, namely: bid price, quarterly contributions, OM cost categorised as overhead, carry-over of previous years and agreements with neighbouring municipalities. The other provisions of the Convention are unchanged. The CREG has not been consulted in the drafting of this amendment, although it obviously contains the positions of the latter, limiting itself strictly to transposing the recommendations of the report of the independent expert during his mission of deciding between the owners and the CREG. This amendment shall have the same level of confidentiality as the agreement from which it is derived. So I can't give you a copy. As regards the calculation of the fee for 2016, following my request, CREG informed me that it had received from the owners the information provided for the calculation of the fee. It also told me that the margin amount and therefore the payment of the fee, which is 70% of this margin if this amount is positive, are not yet known, as the CREG has just begun its revenue and cost verification mission for 2016. Referring in particular to the conclusion of its non-confidential 1534 report, which was drawn up for 2015, the CREG stated that the margin calculated for the fourth quarter of 2015 is not a reference amount for the margin in the coming years. The amount of the margin fluctuated significantly depending on the plant's production and the level of selling prices, recalled CREG. Moreover, given that the communication from the operator of the Tihange 1 power plant under REMIT had indicated that the power plant had operated for only about four months out of the twelve (the stops having occurred from 23 February to 12 March following a test, from 30 April to 15 August following a revision, from 9 September to today following a stop for non-nuclear infrastructure works), i.e. a 33% availability, the CREG assumes that with a rate of availability of 33% and fixed costs at the same level as the previous year, the margin would be negative and that no charges would be collected for Tihange 1. The owners informed me that they had forwarded to CREG the information scheduled as of March 31, 2017. Finally, following my request, I found that no amount had been paid on 15 April 2017 to the account provided for Tihange 1's royalty for that period. As I reminded you from the beginning of my reply and as Mr Nollet also points out, a possible negative difference is to be deducted from the proceeds of sale for the following periods, on the understanding that a negative balance remaining on 30 September 2025 will remain at the expense of the owners. I think I have answered your questions on the basis of the elements that I have at my disposal to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for reminding us of the history of this case. As I understand it, the convention was signed on 31 March, so in extremis. It is a pity that the CREG was not consulted. It avoids problems later. We've seen him on other projects. Good if the CREG has received all the information. We will re-examine you for the 2016 calculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u13	Is there already a date for the calculation by CREG? To avoid unnecessarily asking you the question...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u14	The law states that it is due to submit its report at the end of June.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u15	I'll note "by the end of June" so we know when to come back to you in a useful way. However, on the other side, that of the report itself, it is problematic that parliamentarians should not be aware of it. These are essential elements for a clear understanding of the logic in which both actors position themselves. I would ask you to try to find a modality so that we can get to know about it. This does not necessarily mean having a copy. We need to be able to follow up. In terms of transparency, there are questions about access to information essential for budgetary balance, not only from the point of view of the state, but also from the point of view of...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u16	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u17	The report you're saying you can't give it to me. Like the previous report, it would be confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u18	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u19	It's the afterlife here, yes. So the content since you say there are points of divergence. There's been some historically, with the CREG. And you're saying they're kept in the document that states that...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u20	I didn't say that at all...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u21	We'll look at it as best we can. Mr. Nollet, finish your line. If the minister wants to speak, she will be able to speak and Mr. Nollet will be able to reply again. But it will be clearer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u22	So you told us that, like last year, this document was confidential. It's a problem because we should be able to access it. Good, if you can access it or get a copy of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u23	Here's the request. Minister, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u24	My answer is always the same. You know very well that after a long debate in committee and then in plenary, on many occasions...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u25	We're not going to go back to history.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u26	I'm not going to do it again. I'm going to pass on to you all these things that you know as well as I do. It was concluded that it was in the hands of the parties to decide whether the content of the Tihange 1 Convention would become transparent or remain confidential. The decision was that it should remain confidential. The latest letters from Electrabel and d-EDF in this area were particularly clear. An amendment, which relates to the body of the convention, follows the logic of the principle of confidentiality which I have just outlined and which has been defended. This is part of the convention and the convention is the law of the parties. All elements related to the Convention and its enforcement remain in the principle of confidentiality that led to the conclusion of the Convention in March 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u27	Madam Minister, I was talking about this amendment and I was referring to the fact that parliamentarians were able to read the convention itself. Under a previous government, they were able to learn about it. In this context, according to the same procedure, I wanted to be able to read about it. It is neither more nor less than the parallel of what has been done. My question was about a copy, but I made it clear orally that it was a matter of getting to know about it. Finally, what about the transmission to the European Commission since it is known that the basic convention was transmitted to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u28	Minister, Mr. Nollet's request is not to have a copy of the amendment but to be able to consult him in one way or another. I suggest that you reflect and return to the secretariat once you have an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u29	I wouldn't want to give you any false hopes. I understand that reference is made to the previous legislature and you have argued at length for the convention to be open to public consultation. The answer was negative. This applies to this agreement, e.g. an amendment or elements of implementation, e.g. the report on the annual costs and revenues of this plant by CREG, which provides for an official version and a confidential version. This confidential version has been in your hands, which has greatly gripped the bond of trust that could have existed with one of the owners, which has now completely closed to any communication. [[.]] So I would still like things to be, clearly and once and for all, said and heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u30	Mr Nollet, quickly because the minister said no. It will not be searchable. If you want to write to the president and do another procedure, okay, but we're not going to continue the debate here anymore. The minister said no.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u31	She said it was because one of the owners doesn't want to play the rules of transparency, which I obviously can't accept.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u32	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u33	Madam Minister, you do not have the floor. Mr. Nollet has it and he'll have the last word. We will read the report and everyone will be able to find out exactly what he said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u34	I'll finish my sentence. I can't accept it. In the nuclear field, we need transparency, including on economic data. Let this operator know that we will continue to transmit the information we receive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u35	Madam President, Minister, my question relates to an article that I had the opportunity to read about on March 17th, which dealt with smart electrical meters. In this article, citing a Dutch study, it is mentioned, inter alia, that these could give erroneous measures which may appear to be as much as 582% higher than the reality. However, the choice of replacing old electric meters with smart meters is being made in Belgium. The installation of these meters could take the form of a partnership between system operators and companies producing these new meters. So my questions are relatively simple, minister. First, have you learned about this study? What analysis do you make of it? Are you able to tell us the current state of deployment of smart meters in our country? Have you had any feedback on the installation of these meters? If this is not too long, perhaps it would be interesting to know what, in the end, are the benefits of setting up these smart meters?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have read the results of the study on smart meters conducted by the University of Twente. This study, carried out in collaboration with the Amsterdam School of Higher Education, estimates that smart electrical meters, which have already been installed with 750,000 Dutch households, can give significant deviations from actual consumption. According to the researchers, the main cause is the design of the meter, which would not be suitable for low consumption light bulbs and LEDs. It's very boring! This is obviously worrying and, in the context of consumer protection, I would ask you to also raise the awareness of my colleague Kris Peeters, who is in charge of the Economy and Consumer Protection, in particular the Department of Metrology, which is responsible for assessing the conformity of measuring instruments with the regulatory requirements that concern him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u38	Madam Jadin, let the minister speak. Then you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u39	Within the Belgian institutional framework, the installation of smart meters for residential consumers has been entrusted to distribution system operators (DSOs) and is therefore the responsibility of the Regions. I am aware of the fact that the Flemish government has decided to generalise smart electrical meters from 2019; that tests are also under way in Brussels before a larger deployment starting in 2018; whereas in Wallonia, we also seem to be moving towards such equipment. Smart meters are expected to play an essential role in the energy transition. These are interesting tools to consume less gas and electricity and reduce CO2 emissions. They allow for more accurate and regular surveys and allow consumers to take appropriate steps to reduce their consumption by actively participating in the market and giving each consumer access to a dynamic contract for electricity prices. Over the past decade, large electricity consumers have already been equipped with smart meters, enabling them to better manage their consumption and participate actively in the market. The disadvantage for the individual remains mainly the cost of installation, the life of this instrument and of course the problem of data confidentiality, which is one of the stumbling blocks of the implementation of these instruments in our territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u40	Madam Minister, we did a good job. As far as consumer protection is concerned, I think that at some point it will be necessary to see what the competent minister can do in this area, not only with regard to the construction of these smart meters, but also with regard to their efficiency, if only for household energy consumption. As far as the installation for individuals is concerned, I understand that regional power has its part to play in the DRMs. I will therefore continue my investigation into this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u41	Madam President, Minister, since 1977 our country has been implementing the summer time regime, which aims to save energy and reduce spending. Today, this system is harmonised at European level through Directive 2000/84/EC of the Parliament and of the Council, adopted in January 2001. However, several institutions questioned the effectiveness and soundness of this mechanism. Thus, ten years ago, in 2007, the European Commission admitted that the savings achieved are "difficult to determine and are, in any case, relatively limited". In 2012, your predecessor, the Belgian Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, admitted here in the House that "out of the many studies carried out on the subject, all (with some exceptions) have more or less the same conclusion: the effects on energy savings are limited". In addition, the change in time would be suspected, according to many public actors as well as institutional actors, of causing various negative impacts. Thus, as early as 1997, the French Senate concluded in a report that "the benefits announced or expected from the half-yearly change of the hour are not significant enough to compensate for the disadvantages felt by the population". In terms of public health, the sudden change in biological rhythms caused by the change in hours would result in problems of sleep, appetite, attention, working capacity, or mood. In terms of road safety, the IBSR has seen an increase in the number of accidents following the change of hour. The livestock and milk production sectors would also have a negative impact, as would domestic animals. Finally, this regime would complicate telecommunications and international transport, knowing that some countries are applying the change of time and others are not. So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you have objective data on the energy savings that would be generated by this scheme? How high would they be, if any? What is your position with respect to this measure? In the light of the information at your disposal, do you consider the change of hour to be always an energy-relevant lever? Are you aware of the dangers or negative impacts of this regime, in terms of both public health and agriculture, road safety or transport? Finally, is there a framework for discussion at European level on this subject and, if so, can you tell me whether your services are associated with it? If so, what is the position of the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u42	Madam President, Mr Calomne, I thank you for this question, which I share to a large extent with the elements of analysis. Know it well! This is only a matter for me, but I believe that the expected benefits of this measure, in terms of energy, are indeed very limited because of the increasingly limited share of lighting in electricity consumption. That's the part that concerns me. Because in reality the competence in this matter in Belgium is exercised by the Minister of the Interior. For my part, my room for manoeuvre is extremely limited. Furthermore, as you know, decisions on this matter are taken at European level. As you have made a very thorough question, we will still expand and deepen. There are many studies on the subject. All reach more or less the same conclusion. The effects of energy savings, and therefore my sector, are limited. The change of time, on the other hand, leads to disturbances in sleep cycles for very young children but also for farm animals, etc. Even younger children and adults suffer from these anti-hourly problems. These same studies also show, to varying degrees, other advantages of this change in psychological time. While the change of time is taking place, there would be a better fit of the working period with the day-night cycle, the spread of the leisure period at the end of the day and the effects considered beneficial for some traders or services. You can see that there is something to drink and eat. All positive or negative views are widely shared in this area and often depend on people's sensitivity to these time measurement issues. The only thing we may have learned together in this exchange is that we share the same opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u43	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, although, as you have said, your competence is relatively limited, both because it is exercised in large part by the Minister of the Interior and also because it is obviously a debate to be held at European level. I am also grateful to you for sharing a number of the findings and for being sensitive to this issue. I will ask the Minister of the Interior to have his opinion on the matter in the event that, as we know, the debate is held at European level and, if necessary, to influence the decision that could be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u44	Since Ms Dierick was absent, her questions Nos. 16888 and 17467 fell.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u45	Minister, as you know, the Energy Branch has published the study on the management of irradiated fuels. The aim of this study is to identify possible spent nuclear fuel management strategies for Belgium. It is remarkable that this analysis is not limited to the two options mentioned in the 1998 Council of Ministers Decision. A total of six different strategies were identified and studied. We have already had two exchanges on this subject: on 10 January and on 14 February. In our last dialogue, I highlighted in my reply the fact that the necessary choice of one of these six strategies would have a significant impact on the essential characteristics of the B&C waste management project, whether in terms of volume, the properties of the materials used (in particular in terms of the ability to withstand certain temperatures), the possible depth, the type of subsoil that can accommodate these wastes, the spacing of waste containment blocks, etc. At the time, you felt that you were not equipped to respond to these aspects live, without having an in-depth discussion with your collaborator in charge of this issue. I hope that it has been done since then and that you are in a position to take stock of these aspects and therefore to clarify the impact of each of the six scenarios on the B&C waste disposal project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u46	After discussing this with one of my colleagues, as it should be, and something I told you in the two previous committees where you asked the same questions on 10 January and 14 February 2017, I will tell you again that I think it is best not to mix a study with a strategic scope, whose objective I will try to remind you in a few moments, and a more technical and regulatory discussion on a future concept of geological storage for B&C waste. Indeed, my administration has published a study on Belgian nuclear fuel management strategies, which was intended to be forward-looking and informative. Its objective was to identify strategies that could be considered by and for Belgium, and to provide a preliminary analysis of the aspects to be considered, and to serve as a reference document if such a debate on this issue were to take place. My administration was assisted in this work by an interdisciplinary team of experts from Belgian academic circles and international institutions. They stressed the importance of setting the general assumptions of this study and the management strategies envisaged, but also the need to introduce a cross-sectional analysis of the chronology of scenarios and to present different reading keys – sometimes antagonistic – to make the study accessible to as many people as possible. As indicated on page 9 of this study, they also wished to remove from the discussion some of the points that were more related to the industrial implementation of a spent fuel management strategy than to the strategy itself. In other words, the objective is clearly the strategic scope. The design of the depot or storage are examples of technical considerations that experts did not wish to see addressed. My administration has chosen to present them in a neutral and transparent manner. The sensitivities of each can lead to a very different view of this dossier and to favour an analysis grid rather than another one. The question of choosing a fuel cycle option is indeed complex. Among the assumptions adopted by my administration in this strategic study, geological storage would be adopted by our country as a strategy for the long-term management of radioactive waste. In addition, the concept of reference for the ONDRAF geological repository, as set out in its Waste Plan, would be implemented, with adjustments - in particular in terms of dimensioning and working barriers - in accordance with the strategy for the management of the spent fuel chosen. In conclusion, and in order to answer your question, the objective of this study was not to study the consequences of these strategies on a technical concept of deposition - in volume, in depth, in the type of high rocks, in the spacing of waste containment blocks - but rather to reflect on the possible strategies for the management of spent Belgian fuels, which are conceivable in accordance with the timetable for the management of other B&C wastes, as provided for in the "waste" plan of ONDRAF. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u47	I am fully aware that the objective of the study was not to study the impact of the choice of strategies on the type of B&C repository. However, choosing one of the six used fuel management strategies (I assume you will not introduce a seventh one) will have an impact on the type of management you will need to consider for B&C waste. Therefore, this choice, now that you have this 2014 spent fuel management study (and we know the reasons for this delay), is a prerequisite for defining B&C waste strategies. We know that you need to make a choice about spent fuel and that it will impact the type and way of managing B&C waste. It must be a prerequisite. I will come back to this matter earlier at the same time as my other question about B&C waste. You must choose a spent fuel option before choosing the B&C waste management methodology. I don't see how else to get out of this logical aspect. This decision must be seen as a prerequisite, but perhaps you have a different point of view and if it buys, I will hear your comments on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u48	Mr Nollet, I give you the floor to speak on your question under agenda item 12.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u49	Madam President, I would like to point out that Mr Gilkinet is turning his question No 17373 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u50	Madam Minister, La Libre of 3 March 2017 reports that you have had meetings with ENGIE's officials around the creation of a team of partners, even shareholders, who could set up the project called "Bianca", but also around the extension of the reactors beyond 2025. My questions are therefore as follows. What did you exchange during these discussions? What were the points put forward by ENGIE/Electrabel and what were your reactions and answers, both on the "opening up of capital" and on the "extension beyond 2025" aspect. As far as this second part is concerned, ENGIE's point of view will suffice, since you recalled yours earlier. In addition, were there any other topics discussed? Which ones? What were the elements highlighted by ENGIE/Electrabel and what were your reactions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u51	Dear colleague, I have read this press article, which mentions a source close to the file, which states that the interviews took place between ENGIE and myself. More precisely: "The meetings with Marie-Christine Marghem took place. We still have to meet the Regions." You see me as the first astonished, because, in reality, on 14 February last year, I still did not have, although I am concerned about the situation and I am following the development of this dossier very closely, the interview requested from Mrs Kocher. You know very well why. When you read Mrs Kocher's major interview, which appeared in several media at the beginning of March, you will note that "there is a series of important prerequisites before considering discussion with the Belgian authorities". She said that "key elements must be fixed on at least two important points" and that "it does not envisage creating an evolution within ENGIE before these points are settled." When she considers that these points will be settled, then I will submit two, three examples to her, which I have in mind, even if I do not make it quite a certain religion since Mrs Kocher did not speak to me specifically, I repeat, about these elements. Tihange 1 isn't out yet. We agree. Of course, we have financial results that are somewhat challenging and a great transformation within ENGIE, which requires a lot of work. That's what your next question is about. You may still wish to await the decision of the Constitutional Court on an appeal or of the Council of State on other appeals. So many elements, it seems to me, which are sufficiently crucial to ensure that, on the one hand, as far as I am concerned, and on the other hand, as far as it is concerned, we have not yet decided to talk about the future as envisaged in what has been called the Bianca project. This information relayed by the press is therefore inaccurate. When I have this discussion later, I will know more. I have no doubt that you will not fail to question me again at that time. Therefore, I will ensure that your concerns are addressed as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u52	I apologize for that question. You did indeed see the extract of the newspaper at the origin of my question. It was said that these meetings had taken place. I note that they have not yet taken place. Above all, I note that they will only really take place after the solution, if there is, in any case, a solution to Tihange 1 only after a clear and definitive vision of the situation in Tihange 1 and only after the ruling of the Constitutional Court which is a heavy mortgage on the file. I will come back after these two elements with the same question about the Bianca project. Nevertheless, it is true that the ENGIE situation is worrying, but I have a specific question on this subject, so I will not elaborate on this point now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u53	Madam Chair, you will recall the exchange that the minister and I had on the same subject last February. For the record, and as agreed with the minister, I had asked Mr. Jambon about the work required on the Doel 1 and Doel 2 lids as part of the extension of their lifespan. In reply, Mr Jambon pointed out that repairs were absolutely necessary on the cover of Doel 1, while referring me to the minister to know the estimated budgetary impact of this necessary work, already planned during the 2018 revision. My question was simple: how much will the simple renovation cost, compared to the imagined replacement of the two lids for which 80 million had been planned? In the previous committee, you did not yet have the necessary figures, but you told me that you were going to get them and pass them on to me. Having received nothing, I come back to you via an oral question to finally get this information which clearly seems to be as disturbing to give as a state secret, which it is not and cannot be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, following your question, Electrabel has given me the following. The "Replacement of covers" project is only part of the "Primary Mechanics" section whose budget is initially estimated at a total of €82 million. Of this sum, the part associated with the replacement of the Doel 1 and 2 covers was initially 52 million; the part associated with the inspection of the Doel 1 and 2 reactor covers was 5 million. Other items under this heading are: the replacement of the Doel 1 and 2 split pines, i.e. the components associated with the upper internals, for EUR 10 million, and all the primary inspections, for EUR 10 million, which were carried out in 2015. The current scope of the project is therefore limited to repairs to the Doel 1 lid, replacement of the CRDM (control bar actuation mechanisms), inspection until 2019, with a total cost of 37 million euros, 20 million less than the initial project. You remember all our discussions on the budget, its indicative nature, etc. This shows that all this was perfectly accurate. As I mentioned earlier in my reply to the previous committee on 14 February, and by Electrabel in the nuclear sub-committee on 24 January, to which you referred, Electrabel believes that this reduction in costs will certainly be offset by cost increases on other posts, for example for ADM studies. These are the famous seismic studies that we have also mentioned. In order to avoid confusion and misinterpretation, since the question relates to the concept of budgetary impact, I would also point out that this has no impact on the state budget. You never know!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u55	Madam Minister, in fact, I do! Your calculation of the fee is based on an overall cost of 700 million. Today, we identify a decrease of 20 million. This is the first position. All other things remain equal, an additional profit of 20 million is generated by Electrabel. Indeed, they consider that they should replace the lids, but they must no longer do so. So they make 20 million. However, Electrabel says this will be compensated because there are other studies. The only thing I'm asking is for transparency to be done on the most and least of them as a whole, and only on the lid, a point that we have identified as such. I also hope that CREG will have control over these costs. Otherwise, the calculation that led to the 20 million royalties is biased. The 20 million hypothesis has already been artificially inflated in this case; it is clearly identified. The amounts on which the $20 million has been established are to be reviewed. So yes, there is, potentially, a loss to the state's revenues. In order to avoid this loss, I ask for control of the CREG over the most and the least, and that we finally see where we are in relation to what was announced, namely the 700 million. While the 20 million costs that have been inflated have been updated, other costs are likely to decrease in other places. I would point out that the amounts of studies also amounted to more than EUR 50 million. Electrabel entrusts these studies to Tractebel, at ease. So it's internal writing. It would be interesting to have the details and to see where we are in relation to the 700 million, point by point. In this way, we will see if the state could eventually recover something, and if there are no other costs that have increased at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u56	Madam President, I understand the recurrence of Mr Nollet's requests on this subject. I will answer him in the same way by saying that the fee is a lump sum. It is set independently, firstly, which makes it its full value in relation to Tihange 1, in relation to all the costs of youth investment. Secondly, these two systems, including the contribution of the distribution, were validated by the European decision of last March. I therefore do not see in this committee the possibility of answering the question. If you wish to continue the discussion, which I have no doubt about, I propose that you put this question in the nuclear safety sub-committee as the work by Electrabel progresses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u57	Minister, this clearly demonstrates that the terms you have provided for the royalty are potentially another gift for Electrabel since it can subtract the $20 million and probably other amounts. I hope that in the sub-committee we will be able to shed light on all the least and possibly the most, in order to put a figure behind these smallest revenues for the federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u58	Minister, on March 31, the federal government presented the elements of the operational phase of its national strategic investment pact. One of the axes chosen for this pact – and that is a good thing – is energy. I don't know if you saw, validated or wrote the slide in connection with the energy investment pact. I thought it was fabulous. There is a sentence that says: "energy supply from energy". Hat. I didn't dare imagine an energy supply from anything other than energy. There are several forms of energy, we agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u59	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u60	Guilty, no. There's an oversight. You will therefore certainly enlighten us to know whether the word which was deleted, forgotten, retreaded just before the press conference was either, I leave to you the choice, (a) "renewable energy" in which case I will applaud you, or (b) "nuclear energy" in which case I will condemn you and put you in default compared to what you said earlier, namely the government policy statement where things are clear, or (c) "polluting energy", just as bad as nuclear energy. Madam Minister, today we want to see clearly: a, b or c?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u61	Minister, it is good news that on this day when we were announced the investments that could be made by the investment pact in a number of energy investments. I dare to believe that it will be implemented in a different way than the European Investment Pact, under which things are still expected. When I read the presentation of the energy side, I was quite seduced in the sense that we are actually expecting a real investment pact, a real energy pact and decisions that are being made on the ground with significant financial flows. Yes, Minister, the energy pact must include adequate investment. What will then be the links between the investment pact and the energy pact on the desk of all energy ministers? We are talking about the investment pact now as the energy pact is announced by the end of the year. I'm waiting. Are there any new measures in the energy component of this investment plan? If so, which or which? How do you intend to finance them? Do you confirm that this pact contains nothing specific to the problem of gas-fired power plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u62	A multiple choice with a small d, added by M. de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u63	Like in "de Lamotte."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u64	My answer to the questionnaire is obviously a. [[Applause from Mr Nollet]] The energy aspect of this national plan makes me work on two axes: the future inter-federal energy pact, together with my regional colleagues, which must provide our country with a vision and a framework for its future energy; the Energy Transition Fund, which is on file with the Council of State, from which it should return at the end of the month or at the beginning of the next month. The latter will be used to support research, development and innovation projects in energy materials, including energy storage. It goes without saying that renewable energy plays an important role in the national investment plan, particularly under the Energy Transition Fund. Additional investments have been made by the private sector and supported by the public: in offshore wind energy and, recently, in sea-fishing – as you have seen with the decision on MOG (Modular Offshore Grid). With regard to the generation of electricity from nuclear energy, you are well aware of the government's position. The legislation in force, which provides for the out phase in 2025, must be complied with. For gas-fired power stations, this item will soon be discussed in intercabinets on the basis of the conclusions that DG Energy has given me. Having said that, it should be pointed out that the operational phase of the Pact has just been launched and that more precise guidelines can be provided in the coming months. In short, here's my outline for the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u65	Madam Minister, before I give the floor to Mr Nollet, I would like the secretariat of the committee to be able to receive the order concerning your Fund, once it has been submitted to the government after the opinion of the Council of State, as well as the Council of State. This is likely to raise questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u66	Madam Minister, first of all I would like to say: "Ow!", because you opted for the answer a. More seriously, I find it interesting. Indeed, one item considers that the investment pact must be implemented in two different ways and, I suppose, complementary in terms of renewable energy. First, it is the Energy Transition Fund – the amounts of which are notoriously derisory. Secondly, I hope that other amounts are at stake, since we are talking about energy supply from renewable energy sources in two different places, as shown in the slide. I will, of course, follow this file carefully and come and ask you again. Finally, I hope that this correction will be forwarded to the Prime Minister, given the slides on the site of his press conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u67	Mr de Lamotte, with a small "de", you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u68	Minister, thank you for your two-part answer. In the first, you discuss points that we were already informed of. I would like to ask you further questions about this. We are waiting for the offshore – you mentioned it. The MOG, the bill is coming. But you are referring to DG Energy's report and its conclusions. Can we be aware of this report?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u69	I haven't had this report yet. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u70	Do you have any idea how long?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u71	I sent a reminder to DG Energy. I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u72	The secretariat may ask the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u73	Yes, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u74	You have been very silent about the general amounts that are provided for in this investment pact. I look forward to a clarification of these amounts very quickly. I was also asking you whether this investment pact was, in your opinion, an inter-federal or simply federal investment pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u75	You know that when the Prime Minister launched this national investment plan, he invited the Regions to participate as this plan must be established throughout the country. The State, in general, is not intended to invest as a company. On the other hand, it is intended to create conditions that allow investment throughout its territory, to revive a virtuous mechanism of economic development, precisely in energy materials. As you know, in these matters, contrary to other federal jurisdiction, I do not have to work with the taxpayer's money except in the supports that are eventually provided for one or the other energy. On the other hand, I work very hard with companies. However, if companies do not find a reassuring, precise, secure and sustainable investment framework that allows their investments to deploy safely and securely, we have a problem. This is the conceptual and guiding thread of a national energy investment plan. The Regions, therefore, obviously also have a lot to invest in and regulate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u76	Minister, we are not going to develop everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u77	I'm answering his question. The issue of smart meters was discussed earlier. I'm limited to that. This is one of the things that need to be put in place, together with the DSOs, by regional bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u78	Minister, the Prime Minister has announced that this investment pact will be reviewed by a panel of experts, with well-known personalities. What are their missions, mandate, constraints? I will ask the question later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u79	Put it down to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u80	I think we need to ask the Prime Minister the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u81	For energy policy, have you given instructions or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u82	Not for now, but I can see myself doing it eventually.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u83	We're trying to help you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u84	If we look at the list, it hasn't been retained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u85	I see the pole you're sending me. That's great.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u86	A pressing request from two members of the committee is that you have a say in relation to the experts on the issue of renewable energy investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u87	I'm not joining this. She proposed her name. She wasn't detained. I understand the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u88	Madam Minister, at our committee on February 14, you made it clear that you have not yet received a reply to your letter of November 7, 2016 asking ONDRAF to review its proposal in terms of national policy for nuclear waste B and C so that it no longer includes predefined choices in terms of type of geological layer for the reception of such waste. This lack of response was all the more surprising since the ONDRAF Board of Directors, meeting on 16 December, had taken a position on the matter. Minister, when did you receive a response from ONDRAF? I thought I read the answer in the press this morning. What exactly does this answer contain? I have also obtained, for part, elements in today's press. What follow-up do you have or will you give to this answer and on what schedule? We are in a famous knot and I do not yet see clearly how you stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u89	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u90	The date of the ONDRAF response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u91	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 17 March 2017, I received a reply from ONDRAF, via its letter dated 15 March 2017. The main elements of this letter are as follows, and largely reflect the elements contained in the letter that Minister Kris Peeters and I had sent to ONDRAF in November 2016. ONDRAF requested further clarification and justification of the request made by Minister Peeters and myself to adjust the national policy for Category B and C waste. ONDRAF recalls its willingness to work on the principles successfully implemented since 1998 in the context of the category A dossier. It stresses the urgent need to establish the national policy of categories B and C, the basis of which is known: geological storage. The ONDRAF Board of Directors has decided to re-examine this case after receiving additional information. As a reminder, the letter of 7 November 2016 that we had sent to ONDRAF reiterated these elements. "Having regard to the importance of having and establishing a sufficient political and societal consensus and given that the decision relates to a period exceeding the duration of a legislature", it was stated in this letter, we asked ONDRAF to incorporate its proposal into a phase-by-phase approach. We also insisted that ONDRAF use its experience gained in the surface storage project for low- and medium-level short-life waste. We asked ONDRAF to prepare a proposal for a national policy B and C on the principle of geological storage. Our letter already stressed the importance of making such a decision. I am currently meeting with Minister Peeters to follow up on this issue. We will then resume discussions with ONDRAF.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u92	Minister, you confirm the content of the answer. So there's a real problem. The ONDRAF undoubtedly wants to burn the stages. It's a fact. Above all, behind this, there is a blocking, since your position is incompatible with that of the ONDRAF. You will therefore enter into bilateral discussions, first with Minister Peeters, who is responsible for the matter, and then with ONDRAF. Beyond these necessary dialogues, if the situation is objectively analysed, we must consider that taking a decision in this regard is premature, including on the principle of geological storage. Indeed, as you know, the Federal Agency has not closed the door to other forms – it is still talking about deep drilling – or other options. One can thus increasingly imagine the storage on the surface, given the evolutions, which we can assume, of science. Even with respect to a single site, the Federal Agency did not agree. As to the idea of the Belgian territory chosen for the place of storage, the producers themselves questioned it. In short, all this is disputed. It is therefore necessary to take up the file further upstream. To return to my question just now, we must first define what is the situation for spent fuel, since we do not know what volume will have to be reserved. I can therefore only invite you, Madam Minister, beyond this dialogue on the mail and the succession of responses that it has generated, to take up the file more upstream and to re-organize a general study on all possibilities and which will have to support them scientifically. In addition, you must prevent the ONDRAF from poaching on a single scenario, which is landfilling at a depth of two hundred meters, under the Mol site. For this organization, this is obviously the simplest solution! It is also probably the one he considers to be the cheapest among geological storage options. However, it is not the one that meets all the needs in terms of safety and security. What is more, remember, and this was stated in the responses, that an environmental impact assessment is still required if there is any change or if no report has been prepared. This is indeed the case, since the ONDRAF has been poaching for almost twenty years on a single hypothesis, which is the simplest in his eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u93	Indeed, Mr President, as we know, Engie, Electrabel's mother-house is in bad shape: for the third time in four years, its accounts are at a loss. The value of its stock market was divided by two in three years. Delays are mounting in the implementation of its plan for the disposal of assets and investments, which in time shifts the expected effects and visibility of the financial perspective, not to mention that the war seems to continue at the highest level between Gérard Mestrallet, President and his Managing Director, Isabelle Kocher. In 2015, while the group had a loss of more than $5 billion, it nevertheless granted close to $3 billion to its shareholders, more than half of its current operating income. In addition, the French competition authority has just fined the company €100 million due to the use of the customer file inherited from its former monopoly to market its market offers. And all this without taking into account the impact of a recurrent undervaluation of the provisions set up to meet the costs of dismantling its old Belgian nuclear power plants and of the future management of the waste produced. What is your analysis of the group's situation? Are you not concerned about the ability of this actor, whom you have maintained on the Belgian energy scene, to assume his responsibilities, whether in terms of security of supply or security at all? It is known that many investments are needed to attempt to close or at least conceal the weaknesses of nuclear power plants that have reached the lifespan for which they were originally built. Moreover, how do you appreciate the fact that Engie - despite what the law says and your repeated assertions in the parliamentary debates - continues to value an extension of 20 years for half of the second generation units (Doel 3 and 4, Tihange 2 and 3) in its consolidated accounts that have just been published? It is known that GDF-Suez had calculated in its 2014 reference document the risk of depreciation to 4.4 billion in case of non-extension of the plants beyond what was planned for Tihange 1. That is to say the stakes and the weight of the hypothesis used in flagrant contradiction with the law in the already very precarious balance of the financial situation 2016 of this operator and therefore the fragility on which the whole construction of your energy model is based at the moment when the nuclear sector dives everywhere in the red; the deposit of balance sheet by Westinghouse on 29 March last being the visible face of the iceberg of the widespread disaster of a sector overtaken by the technological developments and the energy transition in progress everywhere except in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that it is absolutely not my job to comment on the results of private companies. I'd like to call him back. On the other hand, without calling into question the elements that you put forward, I nevertheless note - you will realize - that the information you are taking back is completely incomplete. Indeed, in the annual results published by this group, I see a continuing decline in the company's net debt. In the credit ratings made by S&P and Moody's rating companies, Engie is the best among other European energy utilities in April 2017. As EDF, at the A- level, with a negative perspective at S&P. At the A2 level, with a stable perspective at Moody's. All other utilities are less well classified, such as Iberdrola, Vattenfall NL, Natural Gas, E.ON, RWE. At the time of publication of these annual results last March, the company instead indicated that it was ahead of its major transformation plan. More than 50 per cent of assignments have been signed. This company prepares the future and invests in innovation and digital, for example. It indicates giving priority to the least CO2-emitting options and is already 81% of its target. These activities account for more than 90% of its EBITDA. This therefore forms a different picture than the one you have drawn. As far as the safety of nuclear power plants is concerned, my colleague the Minister of the Interior, you have had full discretion to discuss it with the operator's leaders at the end of January, during a meeting of the nuclear safety sub-committee. As you know, significant investments in safety and security, worth more than €1.3 billion, will be made on Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1, under the control of AFCN, allowing them to continue their operations. It must be noted, and it was the debate in committee at the beginning of 2016, that the availability of nuclear power plants, with the exception of Tihange 1, found in 2016 figures comparable to the best operators. I quote: 79% for Doel 1, 79% for Doel 2, 82% for Doel 3, 96% for Doel 4, 33% for Tihange 1, 96% for Tihange 2 and 85% for Tihange 3, an average of 79%. There were in total six automatic shutdowns of the seven reactors in 2016, less than one per reactor on average: two for Doel 1, one for Doel 3, one for Tihange 1, two for Tihange 2. As far as the market share of Electrabel is concerned, in reading the latest annual report of CREG, I note a continuous decrease in the wholesale market share of this producer between 2007 and 2015 in Belgium. There's a painting I have that I can send you. On the same subject, I note that the European Commission has spoken twice in March. On the one hand, to stress that the extension of the Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1 plants was in line with the objectives of the Euratom Treaty, the European Union's energy strategy having as its main objectives safe and reliable energy supplies, a competitive energy market that ensures affordable energy prices and sustainable energy with low greenhouse gas emissions. On the other hand, as regards possible State aid and the possible effect on competition, the Commission decided that the notified aid was compatible with the internal market. It also considered that the undertaking by Electrabel to place on the organised markets, and thus on the other suppliers, a quantity of electricity equivalent to the totality of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and of its part in Tihange 1, allows, I quote: "to ensure that the extension will not cause undue distortion of competition". This will increase trade in these markets by increasing their liquidity. This measure will address the distortion of competition in the retail market by ensuring access to alternative suppliers to part of Electrabel's production. With regard to your question about the fact that Engie would continue to value an extension of 20 years for half of its second generation units in its consolidated accounts, I assume that you refer to Engie's publication "Reference Documents". I remind you here, but also in other issues of today, that the government agreement and the law still provide for an exit from nuclear power in 2025. This is the government's position. A private company such as Engie has the flexibility to reflect and develop all scenarios, assumptions and perspectives in the context of the information it submits to its shareholders, the purpose of a reference document. In this context, Engie, and this is its position, considers that nuclear production will remain necessary to ensure Belgium's energy balance beyond 2025. This way of thinking only engages Engie.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u95	Mr President, I note that the minister is speaking for Engie-Electrabel to say that this is better than what all analysts see as a problematic situation. All analysts!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u96	I'm quite opposed to what you're saying. I return elements that you systematically erase.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u97	Let Mr. Nollet speak, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u98	All studies go in the same direction. And you manage to detect positive elements. You let yourself be blinded by their speech. I don't know if the doors of your office are open and your lines are outstretched with them. However, your analysis of the situation is worrying given the way analysts judge the company's internal and financial situation. Engie values at 20 years the extension of certain plants whose closure is, for the moment, fixed for 2025. He's your main partner. It's his responsibility. Of course, this is not what the law says, but you are building an entire energy future with this partner, who allows himself not to follow what the law provides. All this to present itself under better auspices on the stock exchange. In itself, this too is problematic. Please take your distance from Engie's speech that says everything is okay. Read the press in France or elsewhere: everyone says the same thing. The whole nuclear sector is concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u99	Madam Minister, if you want the floor, Mr. Nollet will reply. The last word is for the parliamentarian. It doesn't matter, but I wanted to reframe the debate. You started your answer by saying that you were not commenting on the results of the companies. It's a little surprising.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u100	Mr President, first of all, you are intervening in another's question. Secondly, I am not commenting on the results, I am simply quoting the elements provided to shareholders. I would add that I have announced very concrete elements of plant availability, as well as a report from the CREG, as well as the decision of the European Commission. I just wanted to remind Mr Nollet that instead, as he wrongly claims, to give me the voice of an operator, I take all the elements at my disposal to go around the problem and complete the piecemeal elements that you have cited in order to see things in a much more relative way. You obviously want to scream at the wolf, as usual. I will simply wait for a meeting with Mrs Kocher, to have a deeper idea than what is said in the press or what is found in the reports I have quoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u101	Mr President, I will try to be brief. The way in which the minister, in her own words, relativizes the situation, is worrying. It undermines our Belgian energy capacity and policy, given the absolute dependence it has orchestrated and consolidated with this operator. He is in difficulty, and the minister refuses to see the difficulty by relativizing the situation that is known to everyone. She says she's gonna wait to see Mrs. Kocher. I invite him to read the accounts without the riggings and to see the situation before this meeting with Mrs Kocher. There's already a way to make it clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u102	Mr President, Madam Minister, the ALEGRO project which connects Belgium and Germany is important for our security of supply. Germany is known to leave nuclear and coal and has an ambition to reach 40-45% renewable by 2030. On the other hand, this country is increasingly able to export part of its production. Elia and its German counterpart Amprion have been working together since 2009 on the ALEGRO (Aachen/Liège) interconnection project, 90 km of which 49 km in Belgium with a transport capacity of 1000 MW, which can close to one tenth of average Belgian consumption. When will this interconnection be put into service? What do you think of the ALEGRO 2 project which has just been proposed and presented by Amprion and which aims to double the capacity, if my information is correct? Are you in favour of it? What would be the possible timetable and the necessary budget? You are going to tell me that this is not a public budget, we agree, but what is the budget for the ALEGRO 2 project that is needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u103	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the ALEGRO project, carried out in partnership between two electricity system operators, Elia in Belgium and Amprion in Germany, is part of a comprehensive European project aimed at linking each of these two neighbouring countries. This direct current link is one of the major projects to support the food security of our country in the medium and long term. Its commissioning is scheduled for late 2019, early 2020. At European level, the aim is to interconnect at least 10% by 2020 and 15% by 2030 in each Member State of the European Union. Belgium is already well above this objective. By 2022, it will be able to import about 50% of peak demand into neighbouring countries. At this stage, therefore, a second ALEGRO project is not envisaged. In order to ensure the adequacy of our security of supply, we must first ask ourselves the question of the degree of autonomy Belgium should have in order to ensure its security of supply. Maintaining a certain know-how in Belgium is indeed synonymous with jobs and added value. We also need to think first of all about improving the investment climate in order to attract or even maintain basic production in Belgium. This is why the opportunity to set up a CRM will soon be discussed. Furthermore, it should be recalled that Germany is experiencing difficulties, congestion to transport its production between the North and the South, which leads to loop flows. It must therefore strengthen its internal lines. The procedure will take a long time. We're talking about eight years. This new line would therefore not allow Belgium to benefit from its full capacity until Germany strengthens its internal lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u104	Minister, your answer is factual. I asked you for your point of view. Are you in favour of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u105	A priori no. From what the experts tell me, we are not considering it. It's premature. This does not mean that it cannot be considered in a longer period of time, but for the moment it is premature and technically counterproductive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u106	This is not my point of view a priori, but I will take the time to analyse the answer and possibly come back with other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u107	Madam Minister, it is through the parliamentary work of the nuclear safety sub-committee of 15 December 2016 that, like us, you have surreptitiously learned the withdrawal of approval of Electrabel by ONDRAF for the treatment, packaging and disposal of radioactive waste dating back to 2016. At the end of December, you asked ONDRAF for a detailed report on this file. During our previous discussion on the subject, you informed us that the report would be available in March 2017 Can you, as you had committed yourself to it, give us a copy of this report - your collaborator had to transmit it to me - and present the main elements of it to us? Can you tell us if and when Electrabel regained his approval? Have any conditions been laid down in this respect? When will the next check take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u108	Mr President, I did indeed ask ONDRAF, on 19 December 2016, to prepare a summary report on this subject. According to the information provided, this report was presented to the ONDRAF Board of Directors on 24 March 2017. It has been requested that this report be transmitted to me. I still haven't received this letter from ONDRAF.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u109	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u110	Mr Nollet, you can continue to follow the procedure that you used in accordance with the Act on the Action "Administrative Documents", so you will know what is happening. You'll even know when I'm answered, as in the previous question! According to the information provided to me, as of 1 March 2017, the report identifies the relevant radiological approvals of Electrabel, Doel and Tihange. ONDRAF informed me that, on 27 March 2016, it again declared the radiological approval of pre-compact fuel waste (ONDRAF A11-A2) and compressible filters from the ventilation system (ONDRAF A13) of the Doel nuclear power plant. This approval is valid from 3 March 2016 to 30 June 2018. It covers only unconditioned waste of categories A11, A2 and A13.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u111	Minister, I heard you well that the board of directors took a position on March 24. It's April 18 and you still haven't received a response. What is the problem of sending mail? We've been through this before about the other case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u112	Radiological time is probably not the same as human time!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u113	Yes, but you have a commissioner, and I wonder what he's doing, since the information never comes back to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u114	Yes, he's a commissioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u115	You have one, while one of your colleagues must have another. Obviously, you must receive an answer. At the very least, I invite you to worry to ONDRAF about the slowness of their letters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u116	Don't worry! I have already expressed verbal concern; now I will do so in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u117	I shouldn't have to ask you questions every time to make you realize that the ONDRAF has to answer you. Otherwise, you send me and I will ask the questions orally.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u118	I'll write to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u119	However, more seriously, you may already be able to tell me whether or not they have regained their approval - if only that. To your knowledge, is that not the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u120	I answered you. ONDRAF informed me that on 27 March 2016, it declared the radiological approval of combustible waste valid again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u121	2016? Vous venez de dire: 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u122	This approval is valid from 3 March 2016 to 30 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u123	I will read it carefully, because I did not understand if they had obtained it on principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u124	I read the technical answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u125	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u126	"The approval is valid from 3 March 2016 to 30 June 2018".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u127	We'll follow the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u128	But it's possible it's March 27, 2017. We're going to check this out now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u129	Mr President, Minister, the European Commission considers the agreements relating to the extension of Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 to be legal state aid. Therefore, according to the Commission, Electrabel must resell each year the equivalent of the production of these reactors on the electricity market in order to guarantee the latter's liquidity. How will Electrabel proceed to comply with the European Commission's requirement? Have you had a copy of a European Commission document bearing this decision? I guess it wasn't a press release. On which specific electricity market(s) will Electrabel have to resell the equivalent of this electricity production? Have any specific conditions been formulated by the European Commission? If so, which ones? Which institution will it verify that the operator complies with the requirements of the European Commission? Will CREG have a specific role in this monitoring mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u130	Minister, our colleague's question deserves a proper answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u131	I thought you were inattentive, Mr. President! Mr de Lamotte, in its final decision of 17 March 2017 EC/2017/1516 on the extension of the Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants, the European Commission concludes that it decides not to raise objections to the notified aid, on the ground that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3) C of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This decision was published on 10 April 2017 on the website of the European Commission's Competition DG. You will find answers to many of your questions. In order to ensure the compatibility of the notified measures, and in particular to limit their effects on competition and trade within the internal market, Electrabel undertook to comply with the undertaking set out in detail in recital 35 of that Decision. You will find here both the conditions formulated by the European Commission and the specific electricity markets that are the subject of your question. I quote: "Electrabel S.A., hereinafter Electrabel, any entity in charge of the management of the production and market operations of Electrabel or any company related to Electrabel, shall sell on the organised markets of the interconnected electricity market at least for each calendar year 2017 to 2025 a gross annual quantity of electricity equivalent to the sum of the total energy produced by Doel 1 and Doel 2 during the year in question and of the total share of the energy produced by Tihange 1 in the same year. The above-mentioned organised trading markets include the Intercontinental Exchange, the European Energy Exchange, standard product exchanges via brokers and exchanges via day-ahead trading platforms. Sales to be taken into account under this undertaking exclude sales within the group of companies to which Electrabel belongs. For each of the calendar years 2017 to 2025, Electrabel will provide in a confidential report before 31 March of the following year proof of compliance with the above commitment to the European Commission and to the Belgian Federal Minister having the energy in his remit. This evidence will include volumes sold for delivery during the calendar year concerned by product type (base, peak, off-peak), maturity type (calendar year, quarter, month, day ahead) and type of counterparty (CEI, ex-brokers, day-head stock exchange platforms). This undertaking shall not continue to operate until the later of the following two dates: the date of entry into force of the Convention of 30 November 2015 on the extension of the operating life of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and the date on which the Commission will take a decision on the compensation clauses provided for in the agreements of 12 March 2014 and 30 November 2015 on the extension of the operating life of Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 respectively and notified on 28 September 2016 as being compatible with the internal market under Article 107". You know that this decision is now being made. This undertaking shall cease to apply from 1 January of the year following the year in which the share of Electrabel and its related companies in the Belgian electricity industrial production market becomes less than 40%. It shall apply again from 1 January of the year following the year in which that market share returns to more than 40%. In order to ensure that the State is able to ensure compliance with this commitment, I have asked CREG, as the federal regulator, to carry out the verification of this commitment, in accordance with its powers and the tasks it carries out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u132	Madam Minister, I take note of your explanations and thank you for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u133	Mr. Chair, Minister, here is a question about the competitiveness of electro-intensive consumers. In its 2016 study, PwC compared the energy prices of six industrial consumers (four in electricity and two in natural gas) in Belgium and four neighbouring countries (Germany, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom). PwC has just updated his study and I submit one of his conclusions. For electricity, the results for 2017 are very similar to those for 2016. For all patterns of industrial electricity consumption, the United Kingdom is the only less competitive neighbouring country than Belgium. For all consumption patterns and in all cases, the cost of electricity in Belgium is also higher than in the Netherlands. Moreover, it is again apparent that non-electro-intensive consumers in Belgium enjoy a competitive advantage vis-à-vis neighbouring countries. The same is not true for electro-intensive consumers, whose electricity costs are still a major competitive problem, particularly compared with Germany, France and the Netherlands. For natural gas, Belgium offers, in almost all cases, the lowest cost of all the countries in question. However, although some sectors consume twice as much natural gas as electricity, the latter remains the most decisive factor in determining the total energy cost and competitiveness. The impact of the relatively low price of natural gas is therefore rather limited. Minister, these conclusions show that urgent action is needed to support Belgian electro-intensive companies. What measures will you take to support these businesses? Have you given or will you give a mandate to CREG and DG Energy to verify these elements? In addition, are there any avenues taken into account for all electro-intensive consumers? Or, in your view, is it an additional system for electro-intensive consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the second follow-up study carried out by PwC on behalf of CREG once again calls for improving the competitiveness of electro-intensive consumers. In this regard, and in accordance with the government agreement and its decision of 23 March 2017, I have asked CREG to draw up concrete proposals on this subject, which will be discussed in the political coordination group responsible for preparing decisions for the Council of Ministers. I read the notification of the Council of Ministers of 23 March 2017 which approved at second reading the preliminary draft law establishing a legal framework for the construction and operation of the Modular Offshore Grid: "In accordance with the government agreement and in order to preserve the competitiveness of the industry, the Minister of Energy is responsible for drawing up, within one year, proposals to ensure that transport tariffs, offshore overload and the federal contribution are adjusted so as not to jeopardise the competitive position of electro-intensive final customers and SMEs and to preserve the purchasing power of households, without any additional cost to the state budget."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u135	I have an answer, but it doesn't suit me very well, minister. I'm sorry to sadden you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u136	Especially for the last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u137	I will come back more precisely with the questions I asked you after I read your document.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u138	With regard to the previous question, could you tell me the number of the decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u139	Are you talking about the date of publication?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u140	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u141	April 10, 2017 on the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u142	What about the number?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u143	File SA39487. Decision C2017/1516.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u144	This document is not published on the site, Minister. Can you send us this document?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u145	He is; I have the bond.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u146	The minister will send it to us, since it is in any case public.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u147	It's public.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u148	Or you'll send us the link.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u149	I'll send you the link with pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u150	And as far as the other answer is concerned, did your collaborator see it clearly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u151	Yes, it's March 27, 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u152	That's what I was also looking at: March 27, 2017, but with effect from March 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u153	Yeah, that makes sense. That is, over a long period of time, there was an interruption. The approval was suspended, and then it was handed over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-18-54-commissie-ic637x.u154	This will also be reflected in the report.
