ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the justice of the peace in the canton of Saint-Vith is currently an important activity. There is a high number of sessions and a wide variety of topics addressed, including follow-up on protected persons' files. This activity is necessarily accompanied by a transplant, the presence of which is necessary for the time being. As part of the rationalization of justices of peace in our country, it is planned to close the registry of the justice of peace in Saint-Vith. The police court and its registry will obviously remain there. It comes to my mind that the activities directed from this canton could no longer be guaranteed in the same way. Indeed, the proximity of the justice system and the police court allowed resources to be pooled for greater efficiency. It is also my responsibility that mutual assistance is provided between the two registries for the management of the activities of the two courts. In addition to these problems, the resumption of grafting activities in Eupen requires sufficient logistics and surface space. For the time being, they are not yet available. In fact, the Eupen courthouse is under construction and the construction is scheduled to be completed at the earliest in 2020. Despite the closure of the Saint-Vith justice registry, the police court will remain within the same building. The building housing the justice of the peace in Saint-Vith and the police court are in fact provided with a lease agreement of the Régie des Bâtiments de l'État, concluded for 18 years, ending at the earliest in 2025. The operation of this building will in all cases be reserved for the services of the Justice FPS. Minister, what alternative solutions would it allow to maintain a registry of the canton of Saint-Vith? What means can be used by your services to support this transition if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you in the past about the future of judicial offices in the province of Luxembourg. I come back to you today regarding the worrying situation in the commune of Saint-Hubert. In a letter dated 23 December 2015, you informed the mayor of Saint-Hubert that justice of peace would be maintained in his commune, even specifying that Saint-Hubert would centralize other justices of peace, notably those of Bouillon and Paliseul, the implementation of this measure being planned for mid-2016. In a new letter dated March 7, 2017, you now inform the mayor that the closure of Saint-Hubert's seat of justice of peace is scheduled as part of a third phase of centralization! I do not hide from you that it is the total incomprehension in the Borquin city that is already greatly affected by the closure of many federal institutions. After announcing the maintenance of peace justice, a little more than a year later, it was scheduled for closure. I would like to draw your attention to what seems to me to be an essential objective to be pursued in the field of justice: its accessibility and, therefore, its proximity to the citizen. This is particularly true for justices of peace. Moreover, the name is indicative of the nature of the justice service that must be rendered. Minister, what are the reasons that led you to reconsider your decision to maintain justice in Saint-Hubert? Do you intend to review your decision and maintain it? If not, when is the closing scheduled?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u3	Mr President, Minister, on March 7, you published on your website a list of the various justices of peace that will close their doors soon. On the same day, a letter was sent to all the mayors of the communes where these justices of peace are located to warn them of this decision. These closures, as you regularly recall during oral questions, are part of your policy of remodelling the cantons of justices of peace, which aims to ensure a better geographical distribution and distribution of the workload between the justices of the peace. It must be noted that not all judicial buildings and sites are used with the same frequency or efficiency. You recently recalled, but I repeat, because it has obviously not been brought to the attention of the mayors concerned, that in order to establish your final choice, you have had to take into account, among other things, the functioning of the justice system, the workload, the geographical location, the state and status of the buildings, the economic activity, the size and the number of inhabitants. The closure of 34 buildings is thus planned, which will ensure a substantial saving, while continuing to guarantee access to community justice for individuals. Although my party fully supports the rationalization process, these closures raise questions in the affected communities. According to my information, the justice of peace of Fontaine-l'Évêque should close. The inhabitants of this commune will therefore have to address Charleroi V. The justice of peace of Enghien would also be closed; the inhabitants of this commune will have to address the justice of peace of Ath. Mr Minister, are the seats of the justices of peace of Charleroi V and Ath large enough and equipped (in buildings and staff) to absorb the activity of, respectively, Fontaine-l'Évêque and Enghien, knowing that Charleroi is increasing from five to four seats, which should, unless I am mistaken, generate internal transfers to Charleroi, and that Ath should absorb, in addition to Enghien, the communes of Brugelette and Silly? I understand that the closure of the justice system will free up resources and personnel that can be reassigned, if necessary. But do you already have any concrete elements to reassure the sector? It seems already decided to establish justice under the tree in Enghien. Can you confirm that? In the context of the "pot rot V" bill discussed at the moment in the Justice Committee, we await the opinion of the Council of State on the possible use of this justice under the tree. I hope that this opinion will be positive, because it is up to me that many municipalities will want to use it to ensure that people are more close to the court. Justices of the peace are a pillar in the organisation of elections. I assume that the justices of peace that will be closed will no longer play any role in the elections. What about a municipality enjoying justice under the tree? On the occasion of a previous question, you announced the imminent full deployment of this large-scale project, which is expected to last two years. When can we expect a draft law on the redistribution of cantons?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u4	Mr Pirlot is not present. I give you the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u5	Mrs Jadin and Mr Poncelet, Mr Flahaux, I have already outlined on several occasions here my plan for justices of peace, as well as the third phase and the criteria that have been taken into account. I don't think I have to call them back again. I will focus on the concrete questions that have been asked. With regard to the justice of the peace of Saint-Vith, it was decided not to close the canton, but to bring it together with that of Eupen, keeping two justices of the peace and two territorial delimitations. In this way, the clerks of the two justices of peace will be able to work together. The decision has been taken and will be confirmed soon, when the amendment of the Judicial Code is tabled in Parliament. We'll have a "under the tree" in Saint-Vith. This does not cause any particular difficulties. A legal basis was necessary; it will be created through the pot-pourri V law. I am in a position to provide you, through the secretariat, with a list of the municipalities that have sent us a request to do so. I am aware that the new building in Eupen is not yet ready and that an efficient gathering will only be possible when this is the case. However, this is not an obstacle to a policy decision now. The intention is not just to look at the current situation, but to seek greater efficiency over time. I would also like to point out that the workload in Saint-Vith is very low, and that even if Eupen and Saint-Vith were completely merged, this burden would still be below the national average. With regard to Saint-Hubert's justice of peace, it is necessary to recall the difference between the first and the third phases. The first phase dealt with the merger of the double and triple cantons into one place. It was therefore decided to centralize the justice of peace in Saint-Hubert-Bouillon-Paliseul in Saint-Hubert. Bouillon and Paliseul were therefore not separate justices of peace, but seats in the same canton. This was the decision taken in the first phase. It has always been communicated that this was not a preemption on phase three, at which all cantons would be assessed as a whole. As far as the questions concerning Enghien and Fontaine-l'Évêque are concerned, they have indeed been taken into account, which does not mean that this has been a determining factor everywhere. We must indeed dare to look at things in the long term. The impact at Ath is limited. It will indeed receive the disputes of Enghien, Brugelette and Silly, but will transfer Frasnes-lez-Anvaing to Tournai I. We still have to find a solution for the archives in consultation with the Régie des Bâtiments. For Charleroi, it is planned to extend the judicial site in the medium term, which will allow the justices of the peace to also be installed there. Fontaine will go first, in part, respectively to Charleroi IV (Jumet) and Charleroi V (Marcienne-au-Pont). Thereafter, once the extension and the new construction have been completed, the whole can be integrated into the new complex. I can also confirm that a "under the tree" will be planned in Enghien. The question of the organisation of elections is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. Directly after the decision-in-principle was taken, I sent him a letter informing him of this and drawing his attention to the possible implications of this plan for the organization of the elections. The details of implementation will therefore need to be discussed with him. As far as the criteria, reasons and discussions related to proximity are concerned, I refer - as I said earlier - to my previous answers. I also confirm the decision in principle to close this justice of peace and to set it up in Neufchâteau. In view of this, my administration is in the process of developing its practical implementation. Once this preparatory work has been completed, which will be the case soon, the detailed timetable will be communicated. The objective is to achieve full deployment over two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u7	Minister, thank you and take note of your answers. I'll come back and ask you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u8	Never two without three. Minister, I also thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u9	That's what it says.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u10	Mr.President, Minister, on November 18, 2016, the Masterplan Prisons was formalized. It includes the construction of a prison in the village of Sugny, in the municipality of Vresse-sur-Semois. This announcement is positive in a number of ways, including the fact that it gives the local population enthusiasm for the job creation that will result from the emergence of this new infrastructure. Can you tell me exactly where the implementation of this decision is at the administrative level? When can we expect to see the start of the implementation of this beautiful project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u11	Mr President, Mr Clarinval, Masterplan III, as approved by the Council of Ministers on 28 November 2016, foresees the construction of four new prisons but also the construction of three legal psychiatry centres, three extensions of existing sites and a renovation project. The implementation of the whole of this voluminous dossier will, of course, be spread over several years for both budgetary and operational reasons. The government wants the Masterplan to be completed in 2022. For each of these projects, the Prisons Directorate has established project managers and working groups within it. These groups must first define programs and needs. Of course, all projects must also be the subject of consultations with the Régie des Bâtiments, which is the real estate manager of the federal state. It is still too early to give a full schedule for each project, since the budgetary and operational distribution of the completion of the files will be determined, among other things, by the results of preliminary studies in the context of the acquisition of the land and/or its preparation for construction. Once these studies have been completed, we will be able to establish a first reliable schedule of the various projects that, of course, will be likely to evolve according to the licensing procedures. The Régie des Bâtiments is competent to carry out these preparatory studies and has initiated them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. When do you think these studies will be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u13	I will come back to you later to answer this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u14	Mrs Onkelinx asked that her question No 18011 be transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u15	Mr President, Minister, the closure of Verviers prison for reasons of danger and unsanitaryness was decided in 2011 and was final in November 2013. We are pleased in my region that Masterplan III will allow us to review a new prison in Verviers. This is important both for the judicial district of Liège and for the judicial district of Eupen. What is the exact number of prison officers assigned to Verviers and transferred to other prisons? Where have they been transferred? How will these officers be reintegrated into Verviers prison once it is rebuilt?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u16	Mr President, Ms Jadin, the evacuation plan of the Directorate General of Prisons (DG EPI) of September 2011 provided for the reassignment of 154 prison officers to eight prisons: Lantin (86), Huy (13), Andenne (39), Marche (8), Marneffe (1), Paifve (5), Saint-Hubert (1) and Saint-Gilles (1). It is premature to determine how these officers will be reintegrated into the new prison in Verviers. We will be about ten years later and the conditions of both DG PPE and the agents concerned, as long as they are still in service, may of course have changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u17	Minister, the law of 20 February 2017 provides for a very broad notification as regards the person of the mentally ill. I refer to Articles 8 (2) and 9 of the Act. A symposium of the Order of Medicine in Bruges last week raised a number of concerns about this, including the administrative burden imposed by the obligations. In addition, it is shown that the doctor-chief is almost impossible to meet the obligations imposed in relation to the wide disclosure of private and medical data in view of the patient's respect for privacy. Minister, what is your position on the concerns of the Order of Physicians? For me too, it is very difficult to assess whether it is better for a lot of people to know very much whether that is the opposite and whether they are exaggerating that it would be so difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u18	Your questions relate to the new law of 20 February 2017 amending the law of 26 June 1990 on the protection of the person of the mentally ill, which was established on the basis of the Bill No. 54-765, which was unanimously adopted by the Chamber on 9 February 2017. As shown by parliamentary preparation, the law has a dual purpose. On the one hand, it must protect the mentally ill better by increasing the number of people to be heard within the family circle. In this way, the justice of the peace gets a more complete picture of the concrete situation and can thus take into account not only medical elements but also psychosocial elements in his decision. On the other hand, it must improve the communication of protection measures so that close family members can also be informed of any decision taken and prepared. The amendments made to Articles 8 (2) and 9 of the Law of 26 June 1990 are within that second objective. The extension was limited by law to the spouse, legally cohabiting or factually cohabiting partner of the sick person, the applicant himself, in so far as it concerns another person, if the person to be protected is parent to one child, the other parent, or the person who has material custody of the child, and in case the person to be protected is minor, the legal representatives. In many cases, the different qualities will relate to one and the same person, for example the spouse of the person to be protected, who has requested the measure and who is also the father of a common child, thereby limiting the administrative burden. During the parliamentary work, the Commission's opinion on the protection of privacy was requested. The committee gave a favourable opinion on this matter and the text of the legislative proposal was adapted, where necessary, to the comments made by the committee. The mandatory notifications mentioned in Article 8 (2) and (9) to which you refer in your question, as well as in Articles 24, 32 and 4 of the Law of 26 June 1990 relate only to the court of peace and to the procurator of the King and provide a notification of the decision taken by them. This is done in the form of a copy of the judgment in respect of the justice of the peace. In addition to the notifications made by the Justice of the Peace and the Prosecutor of the King, only the notification letter from the Director of the institution was extended to the extended family circle mentioned above. The notification of their decisions to the sick person responsible for the medical officers under the law, the director of the institution and, where appropriate, the prosecutor of the King, was not affected by the amendment of the law. The compulsory extended notifications applicable to the Director of the institution are set out in Articles 11, third paragraph, 12, 15, 17 to 19, § 3; of the Law of 26 June 1990 and relate to decisions made or not by the Chief Medical Officer, terminating the protection measure or allowing the person to be protected to leave the institution temporarily or temporarily. It is by no means the intention or requirement of the law that the medical records on the basis of which the medical officer takes his decision be communicated in the notifications of decisions by the Director of the institution. Notifications by the Director of the institution are not intended to communicate medical information to the person to be protected, but are merely intended to inform the close family members of the termination of the protection measure or the modification of its modalities, so that they can prepare for it and take care of the person concerned or take the necessary protection measures for themselves, if they deem it necessary. On the basis of these findings, it is not clear to me how the Order of Physicians would have reached the relevant decision. No additional obligations were imposed on the head of the physician's department. Nor was a comprehensive disclosure of private and medical data introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have already reassured me, and I will pass it on in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u20	Mr President, Minister, on Wednesday 19 April I had just asked my oral question on the overpopulation of the prison in Saint-Gilles, or the Mayor of Bergen raised the alarm for the prison in Bergen. Currently, 425 prisoners are locked in Bergen's prison. This is as much as 40% above the maximum capacity of 303 inmates. The situation has become untenable for both security personnel and detainees. Most of the prisoners are detained in inhuman and degrading circumstances. People sleep on the ground and are stacked up in tiny moist cells. In the beginning of the month the prison suffered from a bedbug contamination. This poses a serious health problem, not only internally, but there is also the risk of spreading outside prison. The situation is totally unacceptable and dangerous, according to the Mayor of Bergen. He has announced that if the number of prisoners in Bergen prison has not been reduced by 1 May at midnight, then any new prisoner will be refused. I don't know if that's happened in the meantime. The number of prisoners exceeded should not exceed 25%, which in Bergen amounts to 379 prisoners. That is why I would like to put the following questions to you, Minister. How do you explain the increase in the number of prisoners in Bergen prison? Why is the maximum limit of 379 prisoners not respected? What measures will you take to respect the maximum limit of 379 prisoners and to guarantee the security of detainees, visitors and guards? What measures will you take to improve the other living conditions in addition to the overpopulation? What will you do if the Mayor of Bergen adds the deed to the speech and orders that prisoners be refused at the prison gate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the increase in the prison population must be looked at as a whole. For example, the total population of exactly 6 months ago, on 27 October, was 10 313 prisoners, of whom 379 were male and 42 were female prisoners in Bergen prison. On 27 April this year, the total population again amounted to 10 759 prisoners. This means an increase of 446 prisoners, while in Bergen prison there were 380 male and 48 female prisoners, or an increase of 1 male and 6 female prisoners. The sudden overcrowding of Bergen's prison must therefore be taken into account. By the way, the population has been even higher in the past. The causes of the overpopulation experienced by all prisons can be linked to various factors such as the loss of capacity in the establishments at Vorst and Merksplas, the closure of a department in Namur for renovation works and the return of the prisoners from Tilburg. The question also deserves a deeper analysis of the causes of the increase in the prison population in general. The population figure of a courthouse like that in Bergen must be linked to the fact that we cannot control neither input nor output in the same way as in criminal homes. Every effort is being made to try to control the prison population in Bergen. For 38 inmates, a transfer has already been planned or carried out. The judicial authority in Bergen was consulted on the difficulties of the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions to manage the current overpopulation. As far as living conditions are concerned, the problem of bedbugs is now being addressed and the treatment of the cells has begun. There's one cell still in treatment right now. In concrete terms, new defendants are currently being locked up in other arrest houses in and around the seat of the court of appeal in Bergen. I will also continue my efforts to control the spread of prisoners in all prisons and to maintain humane detention conditions in the light of the evolution of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u22	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u23	Minister, over the last few days, the written press has considered some cases of abuse of minors and child pornography in which the accused could continue to work as a teacher or in a youth centre. In the first case, the teacher was suspended in his previous school after a relationship with a student. He found work in another West Flemish school where he currently works. Both schools were unaware that he was also tried for possession of child pornography and abuse of a minor. In another case, an educator from a youth centre was convicted 10 years ago for the abuse of 15 vulnerable minors. He's still working at the same youth center right now. He was convicted by the court of appeal for 4 years of which 2 years were postponed. He wasn't given any condition that he shouldn't come into contact with children. The Catholic education umbrella requires a better flow of information, especially if minors are involved. Mr Dirk Depover of Child Focus suggested that employers should receive advice from the Justice Department on applicants who want to work with children. A simple yes or no based on risk analysis would suffice. This protects both the privacy of the suspect and the safety of the children. Let me ask you two questions, Minister. A first question, how do you deal with these concerns in criminal investigations or convictions concerning minors and informing the employer? Secondly, will you take initiatives to improve the flow of information to employers about prospective workers dealing with minors? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u24	Ms Lambrecht, Article 1380, second paragraph, of the Civil Code provides for a legal possibility for the public prosecutor to notify prosecutions or convictions to a third party in disciplinary cases or for administrative purposes. Specific reference may be made for minors to Article 382c of the Criminal Code introduced by the Law of 14 December 2012 to improve the treatment of sexual abuse and facts of paedophilia within an authority relationship. This Article allows the correctional court to order the communication of the criminal part of the decision-making part of a judgment when a person is convicted for certain acts of morality and when he or she is in contact with minors on grounds of his or her capacity or profession. The COL 8/2014 of the College of Attorneys-General on the communication of prosecutions and convictions of officials regulates the cases in which information on criminal prosecution or conviction is provided to a disciplinary or administrative authority. The directives contained in this letter apply, inter alia, to persons employed in the youth sector. On the one hand, with regard to the notification of convictions, the Directive provides that all convictions for criminal or criminal penalties shall be notified to the authorities under whose jurisdiction the convicted person falls. On the other hand, the communication of ongoing preliminary investigations or prosecutions is more delicate. Several considerations, such as the conduct of the investigation and the presumption of innocence, should be considered together. The Directive lays down the possibility of providing information on the basis of four general cumulative criteria: firstly, the seriousness of the facts; secondly, the relationship between the crime that would have been committed and the function; thirdly, the importance and the secret of the investigation; and fourthly, the stage of justice. When the case is under judicial review, it is also appropriate to seek the opinion of the investigating judge. I questioned the College of Attorneys General in September 2016 about the concrete application of the circular COL 8/2014. The College is currently working on an adjustment. I can tell you that this afternoon I received the Flemish dome of education together with two representatives of the College of Attorneys General. Concrete arrangements were made to further align the mutual exchange of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u25	I thank the Minister for his reassuring reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic654x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament 18125 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 1814 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Batheu has been postponed.
