ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I would like to point out a problem that affects SMEs in leasing contracts, a problem whose financial impact, in the event of bankruptcy, can be considerable for these companies. These contracts can plunge entrepreneurs into poverty, as consumers are poorly protected in this context. The leasing principle involves SMEs, a leasing company and a supplier. The SME uses property purchased from the supplier via the leasing company and pays monthly or quarterly rents to the supplier. During the term of the contract, the SME is considered to be the economic owner of the property. Presumably, when an SME enters into a leasing contract with any company, it is no longer possible for it to terminate it in the event of a cessation of business. This contract therefore continues to run and the costs resulting from it are the responsibility of the SME. Moreover, this system runs counter to the development of a second chance entrepreneurship. Too little attention is paid to successful entrepreneurs. This is a disastrous situation to which some entrepreneurs in small companies are exposed, which must also face the bankruptcy of their company. Minister, have you ever considered this issue? What is the policy in this area? The minimum duration of these contracts is two years. Would it not be possible to establish a mechanism to better protect the consumer with regard to this type of contract or, at least, to introduce resolutory clauses that would prevent these SMEs from getting bogged down in a financial crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u2	Colleagues, I would ask you to listen to the speakers and the minister. This is about the respect of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Delannois, companies which engage in financial leasing between professional parties must be approved under Royal Decree No 55 of 10 November 1967, which lays down the conditions for the approval of leasing companies. This order does not concern the contractual relationship between the leasing company and the leasing licensee. The contractual relationship is, at present, almost entirely a matter of the parties' freedom of contract. An early termination of the leasing contract for whatever reason does not relieve the lessee of its obligations towards the leasing company. Indeed, it is a long-term commitment for a fixed and irrevocable duration with the possibility of becoming owner of the leased property by lifting the option of purchase at the end of the lease. With regard to the impossibility of terminating the leasing contract in the event of a cessation of voluntary activity, I would point out that the customer has alternatives to be released from his debt, such as transferring his leasing contract to a new debtor accepted by the leasing donor. In addition, I would also like to inform you that the protective legislation of 21 December 2013 on the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises provides for a right of reimbursement in advance. At that time, the lender can only claim a limited re-employment benefit. My ambition is to review the royal decree on leasing, which dates back to 1967 and is now obsolete. As part of this ambition, I could consider whether an extension of its scope to other forms of financing such as financial leasing is appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think you're making the same observation as I am. You have the ambition of trying to find solutions. I can only encourage you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u5	Question No 17302 by Mr Daerden is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u6	Minister, in court proceedings in accordance with the law of 20 December 2002, there are often claims for damages. However, in accordance with settled case-law, such clauses are only permitted if they do not compensate more than the potential damage resulting from the default. In practice, however, it is found that cases of amicable recovery of debts are virtually never identified as constituting such potential damage. However, in many cases the persons in debt are not aware of that case-law. Nor does a judge intervene to mitigate excessive damage clauses. Prime Minister, are you aware of these practices? Secondly, are you considering taking action against these practices? Thirdly, do you consider it appropriate to set maximum percentages or amounts by analogy with consumer credit legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u7	Mr Lambrecht, I am sure that there are sometimes problems with the amount of compensation that is charged. In accordance with the Law of 20 December 2002, no fees are to be charged which are not provided for in the present agreement. It's usually with that deal that the shoe pinches. The problem you are raising is not self-evident. It is important to maintain a proper balance between the protection of consumers, on the one hand, and the protection of the company's legitimate interests in order to receive a payment for the services provided, on the other. I therefore considered it appropriate to seek advice from the Consumer Council on the costs of reminder, the costs of default and negligence. The Council delivered an initial interim opinion at the end of January, which mainly describes a number of problems. He asked me to be able to continue discussing a number of concrete solutions. Yesterday I received the draft opinion approved by the Council's Office for Consumption. It has, of course, yet to be validated by the plenary session of the Council for Consumption. I would now like to examine this opinion in more detail, so as to see how, as soon as possible, we can intervene in the problems you have outlined, taking into account the opinion of the Consumer Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u8	Thank you for your positive reply, Minister. When can we expect more news? Do we talk about weeks or months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u9	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u10	Minister, according to the law of 20 December 2002, supervision by the FPS Economy is limited to the so-called collection agencies and not to lawyers and bailiffs. In the event of irregularities committed by these professional groups, the consumer cannot, therefore, apply to an independent complaint body, but must address the disciplinary authorities of the respective professions. In practice, however, this does not always lead to satisfactory solutions. Minister, are you aware of this situation? Are you considering taking initiatives? What possibilities do you see for an independent complaint body to intervene in such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u11	Mrs Lambrecht, I am indeed aware of this situation. The supervision of bailiffs and lawyers is governed by the Judicial Code, as you indicated in your question. I do not think it is appropriate that the FPS Economy should, by way of derogation, exercise special supervision. In any case, this is a matter for the Minister of Justice. There is, however, a possibility for consumers to file criminal proceedings under Article 15 of the Law of 20 December 2002 where the specific provisions for consumer protection are infringed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u12	Minister, I will put this question to Minister None.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u13	Mr President, Minister, as a result of a deteriorating financial situation, consumers often consider leaving accounts or invoices. This applies in particular to bills issued by utilities. In many cases, leaving accounts and invoices leads to non-payment and a reminder letter is sent by creditors. Companies that are regularly faced with late payments often agree to allow debtors to pay backs in disks. However, this possibility is rarely mentioned in the reminder letters or letters of formal notice. Minister, do you not think it is advisable to require companies and service providers to inform those concerned about the possibilities for obtaining payment facilities in the reminder letters?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, it is a bit of a suggestive question and I think that we differ in this respect. I do not think it would be a good idea for companies trading with consumers to impose a general obligation to provide information on payment facilities from the outset. Moreover, there is no obligation on companies to grant payment facilities to consumers. Moreover, companies also have a legitimate interest in obtaining payment. Nor am I convinced that such a measure would serve the interests of consumers. There may be an inverse effect, with an increase in over-indebtedness. The nature of the debt and the cause of the late payment can be very different. Mrs Lambrecht, that is why I do not think you are very happy with my answer, but there is scope for further discussion. You want to do something for the consumer, which I fully understand, but I am not convinced that in all circumstances this would be a good thing for the consumer and, as I have already said, for the companies that are not obliged to provide beta-disposal facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I am indeed not very happy with your answer, but thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u16	Mr President, Minister, it is sometimes difficult for SMEs to protect their inventions. This is why the SPF Economy has created "patent cells" to inform SMEs about intellectual property. In 2015, four patent cells were established in three collective research centres and one professional federation. The SPF Economy also financially supported these four patent cells at 75% of their costs for an amount of €535,000 in 2015. In a previous answer to a parliamentary question, you said that patent cells were very successful with SMEs, since in 2015 they had answered more than 400 specific questions on intellectual property rights. You added that 10,000 people had participated in the information sessions they had organized and that their websites had received more than 20,000 visits. Minister, I would like to take stock with you of this issue and to have the latest figures in the field. Was success still at the meeting last year? Can you give me any figures in this regard? Is the number of four patent cells still relevant? Is a fifth cell possible? Can you tell me if there is a request to that effect? As regards the financing of these patent cells, the SPF Economie supported them in 2015 at 75% of their costs for a total amount of EUR 535,000. What are the figures for 2016? Is the FPS Economy participation rate the same each year? On what basis is it determined?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, patent cells are the point of contact for all companies in a given sector to obtain free, personalized advice on intellectual property. The success of this action with small and medium-sized enterprises is confirmed. Last year, they answered 552 questions on intellectual property rights. More than 3,000 people participated in the information sessions. In addition, the web sites of these cells received over 18,000 visits. For the time being, four cells are operational. My services have not received a request for the creation of additional cells. An amount of EUR 541,000 was allocated for their financing in 2016. The participation rate of the SPF Economy has been set at 75 per cent since 2004 and is at the same level as the support provided to the standard branches which, since 1998, raise awareness of standardization among small and medium-sized enterprises and inform them about existing and planned standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u18	Minister, thank you for your full answers to all my questions. I welcome this continuation and the figures that have been provided to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u19	Mr Minister, I have already spoken in the past about a possible single procedure for consumer protection disputes. In this respect, you have met with your colleague, Mr Geens, to discuss whether a single procedure is possible. Today I wish to take stock with you. What is apparent from the consultation with the Minister of Justice, Mr. Geens? Have you made any progress on this file? Can you tell me what to remember right now? Is a single procedure for consumer protection disputes possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u20	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, my cabinet has indeed had the opportunity to present the case to the collaborators of the Minister of Justice. What you are proposing is a possible simple written procedure for consumer disputes, like the procedure provided for in the European Regulation, instituting a European procedure for the settlement of small disputes. Such a procedure, however, falls outside the competence of the Minister of Economy, since this procedure concerns the organisation of courts and tribunals. I would therefore refer you to my colleague from Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u21	Thank you, Minister. Once again, I see you're following your files well. The consultation took place and I will come back to the Minister of Justice about this simplified procedure, which I think is most appropriate for consumer protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u22	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, in your General Policy Note, Economy, we can read that "since 2009, the Insurance Commission has been responsible for evaluating the so-called Auto RC Act. The main task of the Commission was to modernise the legislation and adapt it to the evolution of the case law. In its opinion, the Commission also noted a number of shortcomings and inconsistencies in the legal framework." Unfortunately, this modernisation project has never come into being and, eight years later, it seems to me that it is high time to finally reach a conclusion on this issue. In this regard, attention should be paid to young drivers and the difficulty they face in finding affordable insurance in the market. It was agreed that once the amendment of the law had come into force, the Price Observatory would carry out an annual price check of the youth insurance policies. Minister, when can we expect this long-awaited bill to be amended? Why has the Price Observatory not already checked the prices of youth insurance policies? What will happen to the Annual Report of the Price Observatory? Are sanctions possible? If not, how can we combat discrimination and better protect consumers? This problem faced by young people in order to ensure a vehicle is a matter that I care about. In most cases, current overprime causes drifts in order to pay less, especially in the parent's head. When nothing happens, no worries. We're paying for the insurance. It's all rolling. But in case of a problem, because these abuses are not legal, we turn against the parents. When parents buy a car from their children, sometimes because of a mobility problem in the rural communes, and the latter make the journeys, in particular to go to school, and the car is registered in their name, I find it abnormal to apply insurance premiums of 3,000 or 4,000 euros to them. We need to be able to find solutions. It's a whole way to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u23	Mr. Chair, Ms. Cassart, we had the opportunity to speak on May 2 when we approved the bill in committee. At that time, I have already told the commission that monitoring is linked to the coming into force of the bill. Indeed, the Charging Office will offer a specific rate for young people. It is thus important to know the evolution of prices in the private market. After the development of a methodology and the collection of research data, the Price Observatory will be able to assess the effects of the amendment of the law. The Centre shall transmit conclusions to the competent authorities such as the Belgian Competition Authority and the Directorate-General for Economic Regulation. It will therefore be for the competent authorities in this field to consider, where appropriate, whether it is possible and desirable to sanction. It is also important that we inform young people about the rights and opportunities that exist in the insurance market. Information on this subject is already available on the SPF Economy website. Mrs Cassart, this is a very important issue for all of us and you are right to ask questions about young people. Like you, I wish to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll take a look at the information on the FPS Economy website. You are aware of the problem and you will take care of it. It is also my role as a parliamentarian to invite you to move this issue forward. Our goal is common, we must find solutions for these young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u25	Mr President, Minister, last month I lost two friends, who died overnight, intoxicated by carbon monoxide. We know that this is a frequent cause of death in Belgium. In 2015, 402 CO-related accidents were recorded. To prevent carbon monoxide poisoning, some stress the importance of providing at-risk housing with CO detectors. In this case, it was not a hazardous dwelling, since CO was emitted from a completely normal boiler. Minister, several studies by the SPF Economy have been conducted in recent years to assess the reliability of carbon monoxide detectors on the market. What were the main findings of these studies? A new generation of detectors combining fire detection and carbon monoxide would be on the market. How effective are these new detectors? How used are they in our country? Do insurance companies encourage the acquisition of such devices? Does your administration have figures or studies in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u26	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Piedboeuf, in 2006 and 2009, my administration conducted two carbon monoxide detector monitoring campaigns. Unfortunately, the results were not positive. Second, dangerous products were changed or removed from the market. I can give you the final reports of these control campaigns, as well as all the members of the committee, Mr President. I have no indication as to the effectiveness of these new detectors. Nor do I have statistics on their use. On their website, some insurers actually recommend the use of CO detectors or even offer these products. However, statistics on these aspects are not available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u27	Minister, thank you. This means very clearly that we are nowhere. Maybe we should worry about it. Carbon monoxide kills every year. If there are technical means of avoiding this, new research may be needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u28	Mr President, allow me to inform you, before asking my question, that Mr Van Camp has informed me that she cannot be present for her question. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). It requests that her question be converted into a written question. If the Minister can give me the prepared written answer, I can give it to her later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u29	You're well aware of that, Mr. Klaps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, we have been working on the file of the Reor body at ING and Record Bank for some time now. The social plan for the workers concerned has now been approved. However, it is still much less clear what will happen to the independent office holders of both ING and Record Bank. After all, the can-tower network is also seriously pruned and the independent office owners are often involved. They are neither covered by the Renault Act nor by the negotiated social plan. So they are left with a lot of questions. That is why I would like to hear from you a state of affairs. Can you give us more clarity as to whether the independent office holders also have an agreement with the bank? What initiative can you possibly take or have you already taken to protect the rights of the self-employed kan-toorholders?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u31	Mr Klaps, I will recapitulate. ING announced a trans-formation plan on 3 October 2016. One of the elements of this plan is the integration of Record Bank's office network into the ING network. On the one hand, this will reduce the branch network of ING and Record Bank, which today comprises around 1 200 bank offices, to some 650 offices. On the other hand, ING intends to have a larger number of offices kept open by independent agents in the future. As far as I know, these are about 450 offices out of the total of 650 offices. Over the last few months we have had several contacts with ING and also with the organisations of independent agents. The integration of the self-employed network of Record Bank into ING should be carried out within the framework of the Renault Act. From ING we received signals that for legal reasons there were some limitations in the implementation of the proposals that might have had an impact on the bank's staff. I asked ING's new CEO about this, because there were a lot of negative reactions to the asymmetric information position, to express it nicely. Since early May, the procedure for the Renault Act has been completed at ING. There's still very little in the way of starting negotiations. I have also heard that on 3 May there was a discussion between BZB and ING Record Bank's Executive Board on the implementation of ING's planned plans. A number of slopes are being worked on in all discretion. Such conversations are planned in the coming weeks. I have also stated that if the dialogue within the company is going well, I will not stick my nose in it, but that if problems arise, they will come across me. And you, too, Mr. Klaps. Finally, I can tell you that I am currently working on a code of conduct for intermediaries and the banking sector. In doing so, there will be a clear breakdown of their relationship, e.g. on the compensation scheme for infrastructure costs incurred by the independent bank agent upon termination. I have another meeting with both parties tomorrow and I have the ambition to conclude the project by the end of June. I hope you will take a very positive view of this, but that remains to be seen. It's not even June yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Indeed, I have received the same signals that the negotiations are currently under way. We must take a structural look at the remarks made by the self-employed and the banks that we could not negotiate until the Renault Act was completed for servants. I am not a lawyer myself and not competent in social law, and I am not going to make any statements about it, but in practice this created a very long period of uncertainty for those people that might not have been necessary. Perhaps we should consider whether something can be done about this in the future. Minister, I will be particularly pleased when the code of conduct arrives before the summer. As you know, I have tabled a legislative proposal, in which I have told the stakeholders that if they get out of it themselves, that is all the better and that is the preferred way. If that is not possible by the summer, we will have to look after the summer to see if we need to carry out legislative work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u33	Question No 17696 by Mrs Van Camp is transformed into a written question. Question No 17954 by Mr Senesael is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 17703 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u34	Minister, schools are increasingly using a collection agency to settle unpaid bills for parents. In 2012 it was 600, last year it was 1 400. New figures now show that schools have submitted a total of 10 570 claims, accounting for 4% of school invoices. All these unpaid bills together do not strike a well of just EUR 2.3 million. Sending children with a stack of unpaid bills with a memory home rarely offers a solution. On the contrary, stigma endangers well-being. In our view, the use of debt collection agencies should always be avoided in the case of school debts. A collection agency does not offer a solution. The result is extra costs and often the child sits at another school the following year, where the same carousel can start again, without the school ever seeing the money. That's how the kid gets hurt again. We are therefore convinced that other ways of dealing with unpaid school invoices should be sought. There is no doubt that an important task in this respect lies with your fellow Members, the Ministers for Education, but Justice can also intervene by dissuading or even excluding the intervention of collection agencies and by reducing the costs to an absolute minimum. Since my question has been assigned to the committee here, I put it here instead of in the Committee on Justice, where I had first submitted it. Minister, what is your position on the problem? Will you take initiatives to address this social problem? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u35	Mr Lambrecht, like you, I am very concerned about the children and the parents who unfortunately cannot afford certain school invoices. If you are tweeting about this, I will follow all the tweets that are leaving from here. That said, schools, like any creditor, are entitled to the payment of debts. They are also debtors themselves and must, of course, be able to pay their invoices themselves. If the payment is not made, a school can take further steps. This can be done in a variety of ways, for example by using specialized organ-nisations in mediation, such as MyTrustO. There may also be friendly recovery and even recourse to a collection agency. Of course, that is not really the best way to do that; in that respect, I can join you in that. As provided for in the law on the amicable recovery of consumer debts, only the recovery debts provided for in the contract under consideration can be charged. In schools, this will often be the school regulations that parents have received and accepted. The question is whether we can take further steps at the federal level if this is properly addressed at school level. Mrs Lambrecht, perhaps your question had already been tabled before the Flemish Minister of Education launched the project to help schools deal with poverty and the humane collection of invoices? I think that is a very legitimate and valuable initiative, which we can only support and welcome. The focus is on prevention with the control of the education bill and the development of good communication. In addition, it also focuses on guidance to relevant aid actors, including the OMCW and the debt mediation sector. I think that's the right approach. At federal level, we should not take any additional initiatives, especially since the project has just been launched and we want to give it every opportunity. Hopefully the project can be expanded so that we do not have to take initiatives at federal level. In this way, the problem of collection agencies is also tackled in a very efficient way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I did indeed submit my question before that initiative was published. I was pleased that that project was launched at Flemish level, but it is only a pilot project in 30 schools. So we have to wait and see what the results are. Like many others with me, I was hoping that the federal policy level would prohibit schools from working with debt collection agencies, because there are plenty of other ways to recover money than the very aggressive way of recovery by debt collection agencies. I think I understand from your answer that no real steps will be taken in this area at first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u37	No, and more importantly, my answer has been discussed with the Minister responsible. We want to give the pilot project every opportunity. Should there still be a sixty-first problem, I would be happy to consider taking steps in this area at federal level in the direction you yourself have indicated. I would now like to give the project every opportunity, as my colleague in the Flemish Government said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u38	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u39	Minister, you know that tourism in our country is an important economic factor. The activities shall be measured on the basis of different indicators. The main and most commonly used indicator is the number of arrivals and arrivals at a destination. The Flemish cities of art are by far the most important tourist destinations in our country. Together with Brussels, they account for more than 30% of the number of nights spent in Belgium. The overnight rates are systematically requested and processed by the FPS Economy. Via Tourism Flanders these figures are then shared with the Flemish cities of art. Many cities of art use these figures to determine, evaluate and, if necessary, adjust policies and promotions if trend changes occur. Since recently, these cities have only received provisional figures at provincial level, unlike in the past when they received them at urban level on a monthly basis. The problem now is that they cannot work with a report at provincial level. After all, the tourist market of an inter-national city of art is specific and certainly not general to rural destinations. The Flemish cities of art and Brussels are part of the European Cities Marketing, a Euro-pees partnership of the main tourist cities. This organisation draws up an annual benchmarking of overnight rates so that international comparisons can be made. At the latest on 30 April the overnight dates from each city had to be delivered to the European Cities Marketing. So we're already late. At the time I submitted my question - perhaps you have some good news for me too - the Flemish cities of art did not have any overnight rates at urban level for the year 2016, but at provincial level. Minister, is the FPS Economy done processing the overnight rates of 2016? When will these figures be delivered to the Flemish cities of art? Will you take the necessary measures to enable rapid reporting of overnight statistics at urban level to be restored? Can these figures be delivered automatically again at urban level in future reporting to regional authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u40	Mr. Secretary, do you have any good news for Mrs. Temmerman?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u41	Mr President, I am doing my utmost to make everyone happy, but of course I am also dependent on my services. They are already entrusted a great deal and of course they are also faced with deadlines. Mrs. Temmerman, I can't quite make you happy, I'm afraid. But I'm gonna try anyway. As every year, final estimates are published at municipal level in the course of July. In the meantime, provisional figures were published at provincial level, as you mentioned, for the months of January to October 2016. During the last week of April, figures also appeared at national level for the months November and December. The provisional figures for 2016 for the Flemish cities of art and Brussels were already communicated to Tourism Flanders on 4 April 2017. In the context of the work of the International Institute of Statistics, it is currently being examined how provisional and detailed results can be published in the future. This will take account of the European principle of statistical confidentiality and confidentiality. This means that the details of the figures communicated must not allow the undertakings concerned to be identified. Mrs. Temmerman, just a moment, but it's coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I very much appreciate your attempt to make me happy, but I understand that I will still have to wait a while to obtain full happiness. Everyone is convinced that these figures are important, especially for the cities and certainly in Euro-pees context. I hope you will remind the administration that this is important for the economic factor in our country which is still tourism. I therefore hope that it will be resolved quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about a problem which seems to be very little regulated in Belgian law: animal insurance and mutual insurance. Indeed, some people are very attached to their pets to the point of spending real fortunes to treat them. And it appears that some companies, specialized in animal mutuals, take advantage of it to practice very high prices. In addition, these mutuals generally do not cover all the costs that an animal may incur, such as, for example, the costs of pregnancy and certain vaccines. One might therefore wonder what initiatives can be taken to protect those who subscribe to these insurances. Minister, what is your opinion and what are your intentions with respect to this issue? Are you willing to act to limit the amounts of animal premiums? Could we imagine, as is the case in other sectors, the introduction of an index that necessarily limits premium increases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the consultation with FSMA, the Ombudsman Service and Assuralia reveals that there are virtually no known complaints against such assurances. The problem of domestic animal insurance of which I have come to know concerned a single intermediary which, in the meantime, has been removed. However, if you have specific information or are aware of specific situations, I invite you to keep me informed so that I can inform the competent authorities about the situation that concerns you. With regard to health care for people, the increase in prices is linked to the consumer index or the medical index. It is very difficult to introduce such an insurance system for animals since there are virtually no damage statistics. In addition, the risk depends on the type of animal in question. If animal insurance became a standard and established type of insurance, competition between insurances would gradually increase depending on the number of insurers offering the product, which could then moderate the effect on prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u46	Minister, you know that I follow up on the problems that arise at the test bench in Liège. A few months ago, I raised problems in relation to taxation there: if we want to do something about fair taxation, we will have to act there. Last month we received reports of a very different, very serious problem, in particular the health of workers exposed to lead poisoning. The levels measured there in the blood are alar-merging. Worse still, for three years people have been asking for the necessary safety regulations to be followed, but that is not happening. It's even said there wouldn't be any money for it. So these people see no other way out than to file complaints with various inspection services. There was also a threat of a strike, which followed a meeting with the promise that measures would be taken. After a month, that does not appear to be the case. That is why I submitted this question to you last month. What will you do to ensure the safety of workers at the test bench in Liège in the short term? What will you, more generally, do to tackle the sui generis statute that they have introduced that outdated legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u47	Mr Degroote, I heard that at the time. We have immediately obtained the necessary information and action under-nomen. In accordance with the law, the health of workers on the firearms test bench at Liège is monitored by an external workplace prevention and protection service appointed by the test bench. In this case, that is CESI. That service must carry out the medical monitoring of workers and, in particular, the determination of lead levels for workers exposed to occupational exposure. We immediately informed CESI, given the information that was also made public and the concern that the workers had and around which, given its seriousness, we have taken the necessary action. CESI has confirmed, which is important, that the levels measured by the workers who have offered were not higher than the permitted values. This also applies to workers who have been examined by their own doctor. I think it's a bit odd, but the readings were expressed in a wrong unit, which gave them the false impression of being too high. Nevertheless, the inspection services concerned will closely monitor the situation at the test bench and will act if necessary. CESI has done its job. The information I have received from them, I give you. We continue to monitor this very closely with our inspection services, given the seriousness of that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u48	Mijnheer de minister, wat ik hoor op het werkterrein is het vol-gende:"Since then, nothing has been done. They had even been promised that occupational medicine, responsible for the safety and control of workers, would come and take samples and blood samples. Nothing, nothing has been done. So, what world do we live in?" I got that message yesterday, Minister. It is of the utmost importance that the message-making is done correctly. We are on the same page in this area, but it will be very important that this matter is kept under constant review. In the field, I certainly do not have the impression that what is being said is acceptable. Everything is the result of a very outdated legislation, which covers the test bench. It can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u49	Mr Degroote, I will contact you again, taking into account your information, because it cannot be that the information that has been provided to me has not penetrated the workplace or is not the same. In the course of the day, therefore, I will contact you again, with the information you have given.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u50	Mr President, Minister, this question is in line with my previous question. My question is addressed both to you and to the Minister of Justice. You answer, and I like that. You will recall the situation of the director of the pilot bank in Liège, who spent six weeks in the Lantin prison for irregularities involving weapons, which had to be destroyed. Meanwhile, the man is suspended and a director was appointed ad interim. So far, no problem. However, there is displeasure that the director does not have access to the business premises, but nevertheless enjoys his full wager, the company car is allowed to use, as well as the tank card and the mobile phone. That's the information that comes to my attention. You understand that this is a bad thing for the workers. Mr. Secretary, did you have that under investigation? Will something happen to eliminate such situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u51	Mr President, Mr Degroote, the director of the firearms test bench is the subject of a judicial investigation, which has not yet been concluded. That's why I have to be careful with this case. Until now, the person concerned has not been convicted by a court of law. He therefore enjoys the presumption of innocence, which is one of our fundamental fundamental rights. In the meantime, he retains the rights associated with his duties, even though the investigating judge has imposed restrictive conditions. The next important point, and you have already asked a question about this in the past, is that, together with Mr Geens, I am working hard to reform the legal statute on the organisation of the test bench, which will address the governance aspect of the test bench. Since the director has not yet been convicted and given the presumption of innocence, it is not evident to act differently than we are doing now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u52	Minister, I understand, of course, what the presumption of innocence means. However, the director does not currently have access to the company. I believe that the priorities given to those concerned are being handled too mildly. I will briefly read out a response to indicate what the field of action is about. "When we know that the famous Stassen is relieved of his duties, that he no longer has the right of access or the right to present himself to the test bench and that he always receives his salary and benefits in kind such as a company car, a fuel card, a gsm, etc., which are then explained to the staff why this sad individual still lives like a lord and why there is no euro to devote to the safety of the staff." Those are the most striking words I've ever heard. I think it's funny that these people should turn to Flemings to get a hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u53	It is, of course, the investigating judge who has imposed the restrictive conditions, such as the failure to engage in business premises, and I must re-evaluate them. I also understand the reaction of the staff, which you have read out, but the question is what legal possibilities I have to take away, for example, the company car or other items, as long as the person concerned is the subject of an investigation but has not yet been convicted. Again, the restrictive measures were imposed by the investigating judge and I can't respect anything else than them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u54	I fully understand that, but the management body of the test bench could say, for example, that if the investigating judge concerned does not have access to the premises, there is no reason why he should still use the mobile phone, the tank card and the car. You could point out to the management body of the test bench that it is too mild.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u55	In the meantime, Minister, I have learned that sometimes people have to knock on a nail for a long time to get things going. We've talked about this several times. The revision of the interest rate on residential loans can make it negative. If the general terms and conditions do not exclude this, the bank must also apply the contract. This has already been agreed with other banks. They have adapted their policies in this area. However, Belfius was the only one to maintain an alternative position, despite Ombudsfin's position and despite previous letters from your cabinet. Before the Easter recess, you told me that you would contact Belfius again in order to convince the bank to pay the negative interest. This is therefore a follow-up question in the true sense of the word. In the meantime, have you had contact with Belfius? What is the bank's position under-in-between? What will you do if you continue to stubbornly refuse to apply the rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u56	Mr President, I hope that I can make Mr Klaps even happier than he already is. On 6 April I had a constructive discussion with the CEO of Belfius and the lawyers on the issue of negative interest rates. I shall spare you the legal debate between the lawyers of my cabinet and the lawyers of Belfius. The good news is that Belfius is aware of the possible negative impact of its position on the negative interest rate on its reputation and therefore considers it justified to provide for a commercial intervention in a number of cases. In such cases, it undertakes to examine the client's observations individually and to formulate a proposal for regulation on the basis of all the elements of the file. We have therefore taken an important step forward here after a long time of pressure from you and from my cabinet. Belfius wants to resolve all cases where there may be a negative interest rate, on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u57	Minister, I am glad to hear that the bank has come to its senses. If we look at the case on a case-by-case basis, we will have to wait and see what the reaction of the consumers concerned is. We need to check whether they believe that the rules have been correctly applied. If necessary, I will, of course, come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u58	At the end of March, Minister, I asked you about the practices of Test Purchasing. The organisation offers consumers a platform to send complaints about a specific company to that company via its website. Test-Achats offers the necessary support and also signs the complaint in its own name, which, of course, makes for more impact. The complaint is then made public in order to put more pressure on the company to deal with the alleged problem or not. This can be a good thing for consumers, when the complaint is justified, i.e. when the consumer has actually been disadvantaged and the company has not made sufficient efforts to compensate the customer for the damage. However, it is not a good thing if the complaint is not entirely justified and could therefore harm the company concerned. In reply to my question, on 4 April you held a consultation with the Test-Achats and UNIZO organisations on this subject. Minister, how did this consultation go? What has been discussed in concrete terms? Have any decisions been made? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u59	It is always a good thing that the members of this committee follow things very closely. Thank God this is of course no more than normal being followed by myself very closely. So there was indeed a meeting with Test-Achats on the subject you raised on 4 April. We first got some clarification from Test-Achats itself. According to the explanation provided, it is the consumer who decides to use the platform offered by Test-Achats and who decides whether his or her complaint is public or not. The platform allows a complaint to be structured. According to Test-Achats, a platform is offered. The consumer himself goes on that platform and can judge whether or not his complaint becomes public. A company that is contacted through that platform may choose not to conduct the discussion through the public platform. A company that considers that a complaint is unjustified may ask Test-Achats to remove the complaint. Test-Achats will then contact the complainant, who decides whether the complaint may be removed. It is also the consumer who adjusts the status and reports whether a file has been closed. You have asked whether you are aware that complaints remain open easily or too easily because the consumer fails to change the status when the complaint has been resolved. The consumer organisation was already examining how the system could be adapted to improve this situation. In the future, a notice will automatically be sent to the complainant once the status of the complaint has remained unchanged for a certain period of time. This change has yet to be implemented in the computer system. We informed UNIZO about the consultation with Test-Achats. We are now looking at how quickly Test-Achats can make that change to the program. We hope that UNIZO, which is now aware of this, will be able to agree to this, so that things can be better organized and so that conditions which you mentioned in your first question can be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your initiative. This seems to me to be a step in the right direction. I fear a little that if it remains for the consumer to take the initiative to get something off the platform, this will remain a difficulty. I believe that we should continue to follow up on this. We need to look at how well this measure is being followed. When Test-Buy starts, we need to look when it is being used and whether it is being used properly to get companies off that website when they are right in their shoes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u61	Minister, I have recently discovered an advertisement involving a ten-year-old girl who brought together the stereotypes that many courageous women are fighting on a day-to-day basis. The advertising industry should, in my view, set the right example and take more responsibility for it. As this advertisement ran counter to my convictions and, above all, against the fight for gender equality, I decided to file a complaint with the Jury d'Ethique Publicitaire. However, when I wanted to complete the online form, it became clear that the form was not available in German. Minister, would it be possible to make this form available in German?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u62	Danke sehr! Colleagues, Jadin, the Jury of Public Ethics (JEP) is a private organization. It is a self-discipline body of the world advertising, created by the Advertising Council. The regulation on which it is based is not defined or approved by the State. However, I contacted the President of the JEP following your request and he confirmed to me that he would like to add the German-language complaint form, although it is quite rare for a complaint to be lodged in German. He also confirmed that the complainants who wished to do so explicitly received a reply in German.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your efforts. This is important, especially in the case of a person who does not speak another language. It must be said: not everyone speaks all languages. In my home, they don't speak French or Dutch very well. So, sometimes, such concerns are important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u64	Mr. Chair, Minister, following the response of the Minister of Energy to my written question No. 17338 on the overestimation of electricity consumption by smart electrical meters, I wanted to draw your attention to the procedures for assessing the conformity of measuring instruments with current regulatory requirements. According to your colleague, your department of Metrology would be responsible for this evaluation. In an article published in L'Echo on 17 March 2017, a Dutch study was reported which estimated that the measurements given by smart electrical meters would be incorrect. They could appear to be as much as 582% higher than reality, which is not negligible! The main cause, according to the researchers, is the design of the meter, unsuitable for low consumption bulbs and LEDs. Minister, what would be the impact of this overestimation on the consumer? How can this problem be addressed? What measures are you considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u65	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, when using certain electronic electricity meters and under certain conditions, it is not excluded that too high consumption should be charged to the consumer. A consumer doubting the proper functioning of his meter can contact his network operator and request a technical check. The applicant must nevertheless take into account the fact that if, after examination, it appears that the meter provides a fair measure, the system operator may charge the technical inspection fees. The examination and conformity assessment of electrical energy meters shall be carried out at European level. If the results of the study are confirmed, this may indicate that the technical standards used for the testing of electrical energy meters do not sufficiently take into account modern electrical appliances. My administration will soon address the issue at European level to see if the results of the study are confirmed by other Member States. Where appropriate, it will focus on changes to test procedures used for the evaluation of electrical energy meters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u66	Minister, thank you. You understand exactly what I was expecting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u67	Mr Minister, in recent years the Insurance Ombudsman has been receiving more and more complaints about the cancellation of an insurance contract. This can be seen in the most recent annual report published recently. The problems that arise are often the result of the form of communication imposed by the law, namely the registered letter. Consumers are often unaware of the fact that they have to send a registered letter to their insurance company instead of to the intermediary. It is also often the case that policyholders do not receive registered letters from their company, which causes communication to stop prematurely. The Insurance Ombudsman wonders whether, in view of the law of 21 July 2016, which lays down the legal framework for, inter alia, electronic signatures and the electronic registered consignment, the current statutory formalities for the cancellation of an insurance contract are not too difficult and whether it is still logical to require that a insurance contract, for example, concluded online, should be terminated by registered letter. The Ombudsman calls for recognition of the updated termination method, which is less rigorous and less expensive than the registered letter sent by post. In the Ombudsman's view, therefore, there is an urgent need to adapt the current legislation without breaching legal certainty. The development of a code of conduct or an adaptation of the current insurance convention could also be a possible solution. Mr Minister, there is an agreement between insurance companies that can be forwarded to each other by e-mail. That is a system that works perfectly, but when the consumer does that cancellation directly, there is still that cumbersome procedure. So I wanted to give you some information. I'm sure you got the advice on your desk as well. What is your position on the modernisation of the current legislation, as proposed by the Ombudsman? Are you thinking about any other slopes? Have you discussed this with the sector? If so, what came out of that consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u68	Mr Klaps, I have, of course, taken note of the recommendation of the Insurance Ombudsman. Nor have I been waiting for the Ombudsman's recommendation to address the issue. I have already used the opportunity to clarify and simplify the applicable rules in the codification of insurance legislation. I would present a first package of legislation on codification to the Council of Ministers in autumn 2017. I am also working with my fellow Minister for Digitisation on a draft law aimed at making the formal requirements of the insurance law technologically neutral, so that they cannot hinder the digitisation of transactions. The draft law was already the subject of the opinion of the Insurance Committee. I hope you will understand that I am also in favour of modernising regulation. I have already discussed this with the sector. It is clear that they too are asking parties, and that is logical, given the benefits they bring, such as lower management costs and greater legal certainty. I would also remind you that, following our draft law, digitisation was discussed in the insurance committee. In this context, they issued two opinions, one on the draft law in question, the other more generally on the regulation of insurance, with a view to improving the digitisation of transactions. These advices can be consulted on the website of the FSMA, but you already knew that. The members of this committee are insurers, mediators, consumers and experts. I am aware of everyone's point of view and wishes. So we are continuing to work on this, and I hope that, with your support, Mr Klaps, we can bring it to a successful conclusion as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u69	You certainly have my support, Minister. It is high time to improve that cumbersome procedure. Both in terms of workload and cost, this is no longer the case at present. I can only wholeheartedly endorse the idea of moving towards technologically neutral termination procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u70	Mr Minister, the inspiration for this question comes from the same annual report of the Ombudsman of the Insurance Institutions. He claims that there is an increase in the number of complaints about travel cancellation insurance and the insurance of all risks. In the latter case, this is mainly due to insurance cover for all risks related to mobile phone, smartphone or tablet, for which customers often take insurance on the advice of the device; travel insurance is often taken online or via a travel agency. This is because under the legislation sellers of such products are not considered as insurance intermediaries, and this means that they also do not have to comply with the same rules and conditions in terms of knowledge, registration, professional liability, need analysis and advice. In that case, the insurance is only secondary to the main product. The latter becomes a problem, if a customer does not enjoy the protection he or she thought he or she would enjoy in the event of damage. Since the explanations of the sellers are merely oral, the customer also has no evidence of a too limited or even incorrect explanation. In some cases, the Ombudsman of the Verzekeringen dares even say that the insurance offered is empty boxes. If that's true, that's completely unacceptable. For this reason, the Ombudsman advises to create a level playing field for all persons selling insurance. This can be done by subjecting travel cancellation insurance and insurance vendors to the same pre-contractual obligations as other sellers of insurance products. For online insurance products, the Ombudsman recommends a digital questionnaire. Given the importance of providing good information to insurance products and the increasingly stringent requirements for insurance intermediaries, I would have liked to hear your views on the Ombudsman's recommendations. Are you planning a legislative initiative? What do you think of the idea of a level playing field? You will, I suppose, make any adjustments in the context of the transposition of the European Insurance Distribution Directive, which must be implemented by February 2018. Or do you have another planning in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u71	Mr Klaps, like you, I read with great attention the recommendations of the Ombudsman of Insurance. My cabinet had a meeting with the Ombudsman yesterday to discuss the annual report. As regards the points you mentioned, under the current insurance law, an intermediary selling insurance as ancillary activity should not be entered in the register of insurance intermediaries. The exemption from registration was the translation of a provision in the first Insurance Mediation Directive, which was transposed in 2006. The new directive, which you cite and which is due to be transposed by February 2018, also excludes the aforementioned ancillary insurance intermediaries. However, the difference is that the new directive introduces new obligations to better protect consumers. For example, insurance undertakings or insurance intermediaries cooperating with such exempted intermediaries should provide the consumer with basic information on the product by means of a standardised information document on the insurance product. In addition, before the contract is concluded, they must inform the consumer who the insurer is and where and how the consumer can lodge a complaint in case of problems. In addition, they must act in accordance with the customer's needs and desires, demand and needs. In the case of transposition, the additional obligations will also be included in the Belgian legislation. After the implementation of the directive, I will ask the FSMA to carry out an evaluation of its practical application in practice. On this basis, the situation can be re-assessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u72	Minister, you are on the right path. We must be careful not to exaggerate. At the same time, we need to evaluate the impact of the transposition of the directive on the ground, which imposes on an ordinary insurance intermediary a whole procedure and all kinds of knowledge requirements for the sale of, for example, family insurance, which is often much cheaper than the extra policies offered for other products.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic656x.u73	This concludes our work this morning.
