ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good afternoon, thank you for coming. Minister, until what time can you stay today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u2	Mr President, until about 5:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u3	There are a lot of questions on the agenda. If we deal with them all today, our meeting would last until 10:00 p.m. That can't be the intention. I suggest we end our meeting between 5:00 and 5:30.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u4	If that were possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u5	No problem. We'll settle.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u6	Mr Minister, seven out of ten long-term ill workers entering a reintegration path are declared permanently unfit for work. In many of these cases, the long-term sick person is dismissed for medical reasons of force majeure, without compensation for dismissal. This is demonstrated by findings of the ABVV and the ACV following a survey with external prevention services. Minister, have you had a look at the number of redundancies due to medical force majeure since your fellow Minister De Block introduced the reintegration path of long-term sick? How do you respond to the trade unions' criticism of the new reintegration law as a useful tool for dismissal? What changes do you propose in order to prevent the new reintegration law from being used as a discharge instrument? Another revealing percentage teaches us that 66% of applications for a reintegration path are made at the request of the employee. The prejudice that sick people do not wish to resume work is therefore pierced. It is also increasingly likely that the reintegration project will result in a savings scheme for health insurance and not an instrument to lead long-term ill workers back to adapted work. According to the ACV, only 12.5 percent of long-term ill workers receive the green light from the company doctor to perform adapted work. Mr Minister, there is always talk of the responsibility of the workers and of the long-term sick, but how will you respond to employers in order to provide adapted and workable jobs? Usually there is no adapted work and workers are advised to resume work in the working conditions that just make them ill. This government makes people work longer and more flexible. I can summarize the text of my question by saying that the conditions that make people ill for a long time are being created. Minister, how and with what policy do you intend to reverse the trend of long-term illness? In the meantime, after ten months, how many workers have been laid off without compensation for long-term illness? What's become of those victims? How many fines have been paid to employers who did not follow the procedure? How many checks were carried out by the Social Inspectorate and with what result?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u7	Mr President, Minister, for some time, several members of your government have indicated their willingness to punish long-term patients who would not be part of a "return to work" approach, even speaking of a 25% reduction in benefits. At the end of last year, your government passed legislation to facilitate the return to employment. It must be noted – as the CSC does – that the concomitance between, on the one hand, the amendments relating to labour law and, on the other hand, the "reintegration journeys" has resulted in the return to employment by redundancies in cases of force majeure in two thirds of the cases, which is nevertheless enormous. This is reflected in the figures put forward by the CSC through the press. I refer in particular to an article in the newspaper Le Soir of 6 October 2017, entitled "The perverse effects of the De Block reform". This is in line with the observation already made on 27 April 2017 by the FGTB, in a statement entitled "The path of re-integration of the sick, a machine for layoffs for employers". These findings are worrying. We believe that they should give rise to an analysis by Parliament, as well as to a public debate, with hearings of representatives of trade union organisations on this subject. Minister, what are your figures on this matter? Do you confirm the elements highlighted by the two major organisations representing workers? Do you achieve the same results? How many people did they receive the 10% or 15% monetary penalty for a month? What are the links between sanctions and dismissals on the grounds of force majeure? How many employers have been monitored and sanctioned for lack of collaboration? What is the scope of the penalty exemption for employers of SMEs? Would there be differences in the labour market between workers in SMEs and other larger enterprises? If so, how can this difference in treatment be explained? According to the Christian union, occupational doctors report that employers sometimes exert pressure to ensure that suitable work is deemed impossible and that the worker is declared permanently unfit for his or her former work. It's illegal, illegal and unacceptable. Are you aware of such practices? Do you confirm them? What measures do you intend to take to counter them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the two questions concern the reintegration route for workers with incapacity for work and the possible consequences. First of all, I would like to say that the termination of the contract of employment of an employee who is definitively unfit for the agreed work was possible even before this legislation existed. It was also possible in the past to terminate a contract of employment when someone could no longer carry out the work for which he or she was recruited. However, there was a great deal of uncertainty about the application of the legislation, for example as to whether other work should first be sought or not. This is why the social partners were asked to be represented in the National Labour Council in their opinion No. 1923 of 24 February 2015 explicitly clarify the so-called medical force majeure. The Act of 20 December 2016 on various provisions in labour law relating to incapacity for work is an execution of the opinion of the National Labour Council (CNT). It concerns the implementation of the opinion. From now on, the contract of employment can only be terminated on the basis of medical force majeure, after the procedure of the reintegration path for permanently disabled workers has been completed. This rule applies both to the employer and to the employee who wishes to rely on medical force majeure. For the sake of completeness, I would like to say that all the draft texts were once again submitted to the social partners for their opinion as a whole. The start-up of the reintegration process and its further development are regulated by welfare legislation. The course implies that the employer will first check, in consultation with the worker and the treating doctor, whether the worker is temporarily or permanently unfit for work. In the first case, force majeure is never possible. This is a temporary situation. If the worker is permanently incapacitated for work, the occupational doctor must examine whether he can possibly do any other work or suitable work within the company. If the occupational doctor finds that this is not the case, the worker must not continue the reintegration journey. If, from a medical point of view, the worker is unable to work with the employer, the worker may appeal against this decision to the Labour Welfare Control. This makes it possible for the occupational physician, the treating physician and the doctor-social inspector to discuss the final nature of the incapacity. Only if the decision of the medical practitioner was confirmed on appeal or after expiry of the period of review may the employer or the worker decide to terminate the contract of employment on grounds of medical force majeure. If, from a medical point of view, other or adapted work is possible, the employer must look for it. It is only when he is unable to offer this or the employee refuses the work offered that the journey is over and then there is the possibility for either party to terminate the contract because of medical force majeure. The provisional figures available from the external preventive services show that in the first nine months seven thousand reintegration routes were launched. We note that, for the time being, it is mainly the workers who are starting a reintegration project. More than 60% of the routes start at the employee's request. My starting point has always been that the reintegration process is primarily voluntary. We are pleased to see, and hopefully you too, that many disabled workers are eager to return to work, with adapted work. However, it must be a voluntary request from an employee, without direct or indirect coercion from the employer. If an employer would put pressure on his employee to submit a reintegration application, this can of course be reported to the Department of Welfare Monitoring at Work. The same applies in the event of undue pressure on other persons, such as the occupational physician. Also according to the provisional figures, in almost 70% of the cases there would be permanent incapacity for the agreed work. That figure is high, which is why we have asked the social partners to look at this further. An important comment is that situations where reintegration can be easier, for example because the employee and employer agree well, are often resolved outside the reintegration process, for example through spontaneous consultation or investigation for work resumption, and are therefore not included in these figures. So that 70% must also be nuanced. The scheme explicitly provides that the effectiveness and effects of this new measure must be evaluated in practice, at the earliest six months after its entry into force. This also responds to the request made by the social partners within the Group of Ten to carry out a quantitative and qualitative operational evaluation. Recently, together with colleague De Block, I asked the NAR to begin this evaluation. This should allow for the detection and resolution of undesirable side effects. Colleagues, this is a fairly recent piece of legislation. There are 7 000 reintegration pathways, all of which are voluntary. A high percentage of employees want to get back to work. These are all positive elements. I hope that the advice of the NAR, of the social partners, can help us to do this or that we need some adjustments. I cannot anticipate the direction in which that will be, but the intention is to develop this legislation further successfully.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. To be clear, it seemed to me that reintegration was intended to return to the company. If the goal is this one, a figure equivalent to 70% of people declared permanently unfit for work shows that we are facing a problem. In this case, these people find themselves outside the company, which is not the purpose. I hear your colleague, Mrs De Block say – I quote her because she has this tendency to put the goal she wants to go to on a scherp: It is not a bad thing at all that people are declared unfit for work and are dismissed for medical reasons of force majeure. Mutualities and VDAB can then take over the reintegration process and lead the employee back to a job. That's gonna be wide. Re-integration means we throw it out and we integrate it into another company. That concept will then become very relative. It is no longer intended to find a custom job for someone. No, they throw someone out, and they'll have to find another job of their own. These figures seem to me more than worrying, especially since, according to this ideological communication, workers who do not "want to continue to work" when they are ill were targeted. The figures are here: 70% of the workers concerned are spoken of. If we come to a situation where those who follow the journey are sent back more than those who do not, then the objective of the law is completely missed. Therefore, Minister, I hope that the discussions within the CNT will lead to a critical assessment, so that the aim is not to exclude the worker from the company, but rather to reintegrate him into the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u10	Minister, thank you and take note of your answer. I'll read the numbers you gave us. I note that you have noted a certain lack of clarity in the application of the legislation and that you have asked the social partners to remedy it. To my knowledge, the opinion of the National Labour Council was aimed at voluntary return to work. Your figures show that many workers want to be reintegrated. We must not start from the a priori that a sick person does not wish to return to work. I don't think anyone wants to get sick. Consideration must be given to the type of disease, its severity, its consequences and the resulting handicaps. One of the main challenges of the labour market is precisely to keep those who would return to the enterprise after a longer or shorter period of temporary incapacity for work, but possibly in a more suitable framework, or even in another function – if possible. However, it seems that this objective is completely lacking, at least if we look at the figures put forward by the trade unions. At the end of the day, the risk is that a worker who tries, on a voluntary basis, to return to work because he is considered to be no longer "profitable" enough for the employer, so that he becomes unemployed. A kind of carousel is then organized. The worker is ill, he returns to the company, then he is dismissed, unemployed and, after some time, if he has physical or other problems, he will no longer be considered fit for work and he risks being punished. The carousel causes him a descent into the underworld that will continue. We must pay close attention to this development and, as parliamentarians, we must be aware of the real situation on the ground. I find them very worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u11	Minister, by petitioning the Women's Council and the Family Union at the beginning of June of this year, they called for an extension of birth leave for fathers and co-mothers, from 10 to 20 days, regardless of their status and without loss of income. In Belgium, a partner is entitled to 10 days paternity leave. This means that we score below average at European level, say the Family Union and the Women's Council. The average birth leave in the Member States is 12.5 days. A survey carried out by the Family Association of more than 6 000 young parents shows that 93 percent of mothers and 84 percent of partners consider the maternity leave for workers to be too short. According to 90% of partners, self-employed workers and assisting spouses should also be entitled to maternity leave. In the case of mothers, even 98% are convinced of this. The petition was handed over to you and Minister De Block. In the meantime, have you had discussions with the representatives of the Family Union and the Women's Council on the occasion of the petition? The survey shows that there is a strong support for extending birth leave for fathers and co-mothers, and this is also endorsed by the organisation Femma. Raising birth leave for fathers ensures that fathers are immediately drawn into the daily reality of child care, free from the demands of the job. It gives fathers the space to develop their parenting skills and sense of responsibility. That allows them to be active co-parents instead of the helpers of their female partners. The shift from a helper to a co-parent creates the possibility of greater gender balance, division of labour and household tasks. Research also shows that fathers who take care from birth are more involved with their children. This is all the more true for those taking two or more weeks. The bond between child and father indeed becomes stronger, which in turn has a positive influence on the development of the child. Mr Minister, are you prepared to extend the legislation on parental leave for fathers and co-mothers during the reigning period?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u12	Mr Hedebouw, we are being asked to extend birth leave for fathers and co-mothers from ten to twenty days, regardless of the status and without loss of income. As I understand it, the reason for your question was a survey carried out by the Family Association. I have a great understanding for young fathers and co-mothers who want to stay home long enough to develop a bond with their newborn child. Taking paternity leave is a good thing for the child, the mother and the father. Fathers also like to take paternity leave. This is demonstrated by a study of 2013 by the Institute for Equality of Women and Men, according to which more than six out of ten fathers would like to see the number of days doubled, i.e. from ten to twenty days. The study also shows that 81 percent of fathers entitled to paternity leave also include this. Of that 81 %, 80 % recorded the full ten-day period. It would be a good thing if as many fathers as possible took leave. Fathers sometimes seem afraid of the effects on the workplace if they take leave. Again, the 2013 study shows that only 10% of the fathers taking leave experienced problems with their employer. The fear is therefore unjustified. There are also many other proposals pending in the Chamber and in the government to adapt the various leave systems. With the law on workable and manoeuvrable work, we extended care leave by three months, after its previous extension by 12 months by the current government. We also extended the palliative leave by one month. There is now a consensus among the social partners to devote part of the resources for welfare adjustment to the more flexible inclusion of parental leave, i.e. by reducing working hours by one tenth, for example in order to accommodate children on Wednesday afternoons. Of course, all proposals have a cost for social security and an impact on the organisation of work. That is why it is important for the social partners to express their views on additional proposals. I am prepared to look at new concrete proposals, but we must also bear in mind both work organisation and budgetary costs. It seems clear to me that there are still social needs that do not meet current leave schemes. Basically, I agree that young fathers can stay absent from work for a sufficiently long time to care for and get to know their newborn son or daughter. It is therefore not yet possible to make concrete commitments on this issue. You may find that a little disappointing. In addition, to the extent that these measures apply regardless of the statute, the other competent ministers will, of course, also have to be involved. The question cannot be separated from the European Commission's recently launched legislative initiative on the work-life balance for parents and carers and the debates that will take place in the near future. In this context, moreover, we have already had contacts with the Women's Council and the Family Union. In particular, the European Commission has proposed the introduction of 10 days' paternity leave, where the benefit would be at least the same as that for incapacity for work, which has a budgetary cost of some degree of disability.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear an opening on your part on principle, it's already important. One does not remain in the dogma that paternity and maternity leave are shared between men and women and that one remains in the same pot. I hear an opening to the question of increasing the pot because, overall, the number of days is insufficient. I would have liked a little more commitment because we know that Minister De Block has taken steps to be able to send mothers home just after birth, relying on family autonomy to get out of it. It would be important to do concrete work for this enlargement towards paternity leave, which, in my view, is much more in line with the sense of fairness and the modern sense of the relationship between men and women that we want to have in the gender issue. I can only hope that in the short term this concrete project will be discussed to double the number of days of paternity leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u14	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the situation of full-time women. As you know, the FGTB conducted a study on the current employment contracts in Q3 2016. The study indicates that the number of men working on a full-time contract is twice as high as that of women. The private sector has the largest imbalance with 1,126,000 full-time workers per 476,000 workers. At the part-time level, the study has 119,000 contracts for men and 414,000 for women. The reality is striking for women. They are twice as likely to get full time. Moreover, the various reforms that have taken place or are under way, particularly on increased flexibility and flexi-jobs, tend to further reinforce this phenomenon. A recent SPF Employment study shows that 90% of people working part-time want full-time work. Minister, my questions are relatively simple. Do you confirm these figures? Do you have more recent figures from 2017? Finally, given the difficulty for women workers in obtaining full-time employment, what measures do you intend to implement to address this imbalance in the labour market?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u15	Mr President, Mr Daerden, I will try to answer your many questions completely. According to the Labour Force Survey, in 2016, there were 1,425,043 men and 685,847 women full-time employees in the private sector; 169,270 men and 648,603 women working part-time. In the public sector, there were 365,177 men and 358,028 women working full-time; 44,205 men and 198,382 women working part-time. I can give you the numbers in writing. I found that the figures did not exactly match the figures you quote. Perhaps you could check with another source using a somewhat different public-private subdivision. However, the overall picture remains the same. The survey also provides us with information on the proportion of people working part-time because they do not find full-time employment. This is what we call involuntary part-time work. In the private sector, this represents 8 per cent of women working part-time and 15 per cent of men in the same situation. These proportions and limited sums are significantly in the European average. I am satisfied with every job created - as I hope you do - whether it is full-time or part-time. Fortunately, we have been on the right track in recent years. I stress, however, that there is still a long way to go. In addition to those who work part-time involuntarily, a number of people opt for part-time work because, for example, there is a lack of affordable and accessible childcare facilities for children, or for other family reasons. As you know, the feasible and manageable labour law aims to improve work-life balance. The Communities are working to increase the number of reception places. However, I must also point out that, from an international perspective, our results are not bad. Indeed, in our country, the employment of women with children is just 0.5% lower than that of women without children, whereas on average this difference amounts to more than 8% in the European Union. Of course, this does not detract from the fact that, in general, women's employment time is too low, especially for low-skilled women. We must therefore continue to create jobs and work towards equal representation of women and men in the labour market. Hence the importance of measures taken to reduce wage costs and preserve competitiveness, but also to improve the combination of work and family life. I am thinking, in particular, of the recent measure to increase the thematic leave premium for isolated persons devoted to the care of their children. At European level, we also look forward to the discussion on a better balance between work and family life, following the proposals put forward by Commissioner Marianne Thyssen on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u16	Minister, thank you for these answers, which confirm the figures, with some nuances. As you said, we are in the same proportions and there are significantly more part-time contracts for women. Having said that, I do not quite have the same reading as you with regard to the voluntary and involuntary aspect of part-time contracts. If I have heard your figures, the rates of involuntary part-time contracts are relatively low, since they are 8 and 15 per cent. It all depends on what is included in these categories. In the Labour Force Survey there are several categories. One group is those who do not find a full-time job. This corresponds more or less to your numbers. But there are also other categories. In particular, childcare problems. You mentioned that there is work to be done to increase the number of child care spaces. There are also jobs offered only on a part-time basis. This category, "the desired job is offered only on a part-time basis", represents 17.7%. I think we need to add up all these percentages. I am not saying that we would reach 90% on the basis of these statistics, but these are high rates of involuntary part-time work, and therefore suffered. That's really what we have to fight against. When you tell me that flexibility will improve the balance between personal and professional life, I am not convinced. We discussed it. This flexibility is either the will of the worker, or it is imposed on him and it makes it even more complicated to reconcile private and professional life, especially when the deadlines are very short. I have doubts about that. I understand that you have hope in measures coming from Europe. There is also hope that this will improve the ability, especially of women, to take on the type of employment they want - whether part-time or full-time. In some cases, they need as much as men full time to ensure a decent standard of living, especially as a result of changing family structures. We really need to work in that direction. I will conclude by saying that I agree relatively well with you that a job created satisfies me, but on condition that it is of good quality. We really have to fight for quality jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u17	Mr Minister, in June last year Commissioner Thyssen proposed an increase in the parental leave allowance. It proposes that the sickness benefit be increased to the level of the sickness benefit in all the Member States of the European Union. If I am not mistaken, you have said that you are in favour of European measures that improve the relationship between work and family life. To this end, you have asked your administration to study the consequences of such a measure. In this regard, Minister, do you already have the results of this study? If so, how will Belgium take a position at European level on this proposal? If not, when do you think you will receive them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u18	I have a few questions on the same subject, Minister. The proposal does indeed have advantages. Today we are faced with the situation that women often take leave, because the loss of pay is too great for men to take leave. In this sense, the level of sickness benefit linked to the last wage earned will provide a solution, but you yourself have said that it will provide a significantly higher benefit and will certainly cost our social security something. Because the benefit will be higher than it is now, people may also be using it more quickly. I have the following questions. First of all, has the investigation of your administration been completed yet? You promised it would come. Secondly, what is the total cost of that measure? It is not just about higher benefits but also about lower social contributions and personal taxation. Finally, what position will Belgium take on this matter at the European Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u19	Mr President, Mr Daerden, I would first like to stress that I very much welcome the European Commission's initiative to develop a pillar of social rights. I hope you will be able to join me in that. For the first time in this way, Europe is taking clear steps to shape the social Europe as well. You know that yesterday we had an EPSCO Council, which lasted quite a long time. You have heard the results from the media. It may be that this committee will organise a further piece of work on this subject, but the social pillar was approved yesterday. The declaration laying down 20 principles and social rights has been adopted. You know that this declaration will be announced at the social summit in Gothenburg on 17 November and will be signed unanimously by the Heads of Government, among other things. Moreover, the proposal for a directive to which your question refers is part of our policy of better reconciliation of work and private life and, above all, of greater implication of the male population in the care of children and other dependent family members. Developing equal opportunities for men and women through regulation is part of our long-standing and valued Belgian tradition and is part of a policy mix with, for example, sufficient attention to childcare, where families can make their own choices. In the meantime, an analysis was made of the proposal for a directive on work-life balance for parents and carers by the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation. This concerns both the regulatory aspects of the proposal and its budgetary aspects. For Belgium, there are mainly budgetary implications. During the period of parental leave and leave for medical assistance, flat-rate benefits are currently being granted, while the level of benefit under the proposal for a directive must be equivalent to the benefit received in the event of illness. For our country this would mean receiving a benefit equal to 60% of the normal gross wage, albeit with an upper limit, but still at a high level. For the proposed adjustment in parental leave, the impact would be EUR 80 million if the number of people using it remains the same. It would be EUR 178 million if the number of people using it increased by 50% as a result of the more interesting premium. We assume that this increase of 50% is realistic. For carers, the impact would be between 0.4 and 2.3 million euros, depending on the hypothesis. These are annual amounts. The regulatory effects will be more limited because we already have a well-developed system of parental leave or leave for medical assistance. Both can be recorded through a complete interruption of performance, as through a temporary transition to a half-time or a four-fifth job. We do not have any other calculations at our disposal in the area of personal taxation, among other things. This dossier was first discussed at the informal EPSCO Council meeting in Estonia on 19 and 20 July this year. Technical discussions at diplomatic level are still ongoing. With regard to parental leave benefits, there is the possibility of reducing costs and maintaining the Commission's philosophy. Working with a percentage of gross monthly earnings, with a minimum and a maximum, is possible. We will certainly be able to come back to this subject and the proposal for a directive later. The debate on this subject has not yet ended at European level either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u20	Minister, thank you for this explanation and for the information on the budgetary and regulatory implications. I understand that the outright application of the original proposal to reach 60% represents a significant amount of money. But if I can see your answer correctly, you still defend it because you are convinced that it would be a step forward in the balance between personal and professional life. I hope that we will have concrete results in the coming months, even if we have to introduce a transitional period in order to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u21	Mr Hedebouw is not asking his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u22	Mr President, Minister, this is actually a follow-up question to my written question on the further developments of the resignation round at Bombardier in Bruges. In the meantime, new facts are known. Bombardier seized the order of 146 trams for De Lijn, but took the order for the conversion of the Antwerp Hermelijntrams. There would also be cooperation between the Spanish CAF and Bombardier, which could reduce job losses. A social agreement has also been reached. Mr Minister, will the implementation of the M7 programme and additional orders within the framework contract with SNCB be completed in Bruges? Or does this order, possibly partly, move to France? What will the announced cooperation between CAF and Bombardier consist of and will this lead to the maintenance or expansion of employment? How many jobs are going to disappear permanently now? Until what date is the existence of the Bombardier branch in Bruges guaranteed? What is the correct content of the social agreement? What guarantees does the plan provide for the redundant workers and those who continue to work? Will the SWT be applied? If so, how many employees are eligible? Should there not be a further reduction in the wage burden for the secondary sector in order to combat relocation effectively and efficiently?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u23	Mr President, Mr Van der Donkt, I have an answer that also addresses Mr Hedebouw's questions, but he has already left us. He might come back later. So I give you a total answer and you do what you think you should do with regard to Mr Hedebouw. I'll leave that to you. As indicated, Minister Bellot and I have had intensive discussions with the Bombardier Transportation Summit, abbreviated BT, in order to minimise the number of discards resulting from global restructuring and to draw out a certain long-term perspective for the Bruges site. We have made it clear to BT that its intentions, contrary to the various promises made at the time to the government, to the general public and mainly to the staff of one of its largest customers, have caused a breach of trust. It is not for the federal government to comment on De Lijn's decision, but it is clear that the award to CAF of the L4 contract in Bruges has no positive effect on employment or on reducing the number of discards, especially since according to what we have heard from BT's management, there is no commercial agreement between CAF and BT, which would have allowed additional assignments to flow to Bruges or compensation to BT. That contract could have employed 45 to 50 employees until 2022. As far as SNCB is concerned, you know that an agreement has been concluded with Bombardier. This agreement allows Bombardier, subject to guarantees of quality, to have the aircraft manufactured in other establishments, mainly in France. To outline the progress of the Bombardier case until today, the company announced on 5 May 2017 the collective dismissal of 160 employees on an average workforce of 452 employees. The information and consultation phase was concluded on 13 July 2017. On 14 July 2017, the company served the collective redundancies to 123 employees. The dismissal of 160 employees was announced and it was served to 123 employees. The difference between the number of announced and meant redundancies is, firstly, the result of the consideration of workers who have already been terminated and the failure to renew a number of temporary contracts, i.e. 14 places. Secondly, there was confirmation of the Hermelijn project which left 16 employees in employment. Thirdly, there were vacancies in other departments resulting in 2 mutations. Fourthly, there was the extension of the SBB-retrofit project which allowed 5 employees to remain in service. These elements led to 37 jobs being affected less than initially announced in collective redundancies. On 24 August 2017, a collective social plan was signed. This collective agreement provides, among other things, for the following points which I will deliver to you in writing later because you will find it difficult to record them, unless I speak very slowly, but then we will not be out of here at 5:00 p.m. If dismissals are made in departments where external and/or temporary workers are employed, dismissals can only be made after the external and/or temporary workers have left the company, provided that their duties can be taken over by the workers affected by Bombardier. Employees who are part of collective redundancies may apply to leave the undertaking early. Payment of a termination fee. Payment of an early retirement allowance. Payment of a farewell premium of 1 500 euros gross per year of seniority started. Payment of a one-off gross flat-rate premium of EUR 5 000. Payment of a performance premium. From 1 July 2017 until 31 December 2018, a gross premium will be granted per month starting from 700 to 1 500 euros per month. A compensation scheme for the workers has been set up. The financial imposition by the employer in the event of temporary unemployment for economic reasons will be extended to 100 days in 2017 and 100 days in 2018. The employer undertakes to have hospitalisation insurance completed during the period of the statutory withdrawal allowance and/or compensation. There is a one-off collapse in group insurance and the application of collective agreement No. 90, where a premium of EUR 1 200 net per year is granted, insofar as the objectives are achieved for the years 2017-2020. Movements between the Bruges and Crespin sites are limited as much as possible. Employment measures are provided for, namely: the establishment of an employment cell in cooperation with the sector funds TOFAM and Formetal, and outplacement through the RiseSmart office. The counseling period is 30 hours for 3 months for those aged 45 and 60 hours for 6 months for those aged 45 and over. This period may be extended by six months if necessary. Possibility of employment in another Bombardier Transportation Site or at the new maintenance company. If there are temporary, new projects within the site and recruitments have to take place, the workers made redundant will first be given the opportunity. Temporary workers and external workers may be employed in consultation with the syndicated partners. Persons who are part of a section which is closed and who eventually, if necessary after retraining, remain employed within the holding, shall retain their minimum rent or monthly salary in their last position. On 12 October 2017, the company submitted an application for recognition as a company in restructuring with a view to reducing the age under the single payment scheme to 56 years, in application of the collective agreement No. 126 of the NAR. This age must be reached on the date of the notice of collective redundancies. 34 workers and 3 servants meet the age and seniority condition in order to qualify for the SWT. I can only answer the fundamental questions raised by your colleague, among others, that Belgium must comply with European procurement rules. Normally, European procurement does not require economic activities in Belgium. For the moment, there is no convincing evidence that it is easier for multinationals in Belgium than in other European Member States to shut down companies and fire people. However, the social partners in the NAR are currently considering useful adjustments to the Renault Act. Of course, we will take into account any future proposals on this subject. We ourselves had it, but we will wait for these proposals to come up with a request from our colleagues in the government. There was another demand for the reduction of charges. The tax shift of this government is still in the process of implementation. Since last year, as you know, employers' contributions have been reduced in steps and people's net wages have been increased. At the beginning of 2018, the benefits in this context will be felt again by employers and employees, as a next phase of the tax shift will start. Mr Van der Donkt, I hope that this answer is quite complete and will provide you with sufficient information on the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply. I hope that there are not too many follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u25	Mr President, Minister, the insurance sector has been in a turbulent period for a long time. For example, I mention the difficulties with Ehitias, the announced restructurings at ING, Record Bank, ERGO and some smaller restructurings. The question that I have put and which is now on the agenda has now been somewhat overtaken by the facts. However, my question also included a general component, which I would like to ask. A standard in the insurance sector is that, of course, there are a lot of servants at work, especially at headquarters, but also in the outdoor service. However, the offices are at least partially operated by the self-employed. From the moment a restructuring is announced, the Renault Act applies to the employees. It now appears in practice that the self-employed office holders or those who sell insurance on an independent basis remain in uncertainty for a very long time. The head office in question then explains each time that the procedure must first be dealt with in accordance with the Renault Act, before negotiations can be held with the independent office holders. That is, of course, very harsh, as those self-employed people have to have a relationship with their customers. If they no longer know exactly what their status is or what will happen, then they cannot tell their customers either. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback, as you know. For those self-employed people, it is absolutely not evident. In the meantime, some procedures have been completed, but it is certainly not clear to everyone. The big problems are already gone. In general, Minister, I would like to know whether it is forbidden to initiate parallel dialogue, in this case with independent office holders, as long as there is still an information and consultation procedure with employees' representatives under the Renault Act. Can the use of that argument possibly be interpreted as a presumption of false self-employment? It is one or the other: either one is covered or not. To what extent can self-employed office holders who are not subject to false self-employment enforce dialogue with them during an ongoing procedure under the Renault Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u26	Mr Klaps, the insurance sector knows that you are watching and asking questions day and night. That is good, also for the self-employed in that sector. The Belgian rules on collective redundancies originate from Council Directive 98/59 of 20 July 1998 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to collective redundancies. Article 1 (1) (a) of the said Directive lays down what constitutes collective redundancies, namely dismissal by an employer for one or more reasons which do not relate to the person of the employee. This means wage-earners. This Directive was transposed into Belgian law, mainly into the following regulations: the Collective Labour Agreement No 24 of 2 October 1975 on the procedure for informing and consulting employees' representatives on collective redundancies and the Royal Decree of 24 May 1976 on collective redundancies. If an employer wishes to resign collectively, he must, by virtue of the collective agreement No. 24 to comply with certain procedures, namely to inform employees' representatives in advance, to consult employees' representatives and to notify the Director of the Subregional Employment Service of the intention of collective redundancies. The Law of 13 February 1998, known as the Renault Act, established civil sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the information and consultation procedure. This may result in the employee continuing to carry out his employment contract and in any event continuing to pay the wage to him. The different regulations do not lay down any negotiation and consultation procedure between the company which is internally dismissed and the independent office holders, for example subcontractors or branches with which it has close commercial links. The redundancies carried out by the independent office holders in respect of their staff do not relate to collective redundancies. I can also stress that the rules on collective redundancies do not prevent contact from being made with independent office owners and that they are informed of the consequences of the planned restructuring. I received the Executive Board at ING's announcement of collective dismissal. I pointed out to them that the fate of the self-employed of Record Bank was important and that they should not leave these self-employed and their employees in the dark either. I understand then that people are hiding behind the Renault Act to say that they must first inform employees and then the self-employed. I made it clear to them that this is not right. We must follow the procedure I have just described, but nothing prevents a bank from informing the independent office owners at the same time. There is no hiding behind the Renault Act. As you know, we had proposals to introduce this clearly into the Renault Act, but by taking the question of what the social partners think about it, we put it in brackets.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear answer. We are fully in line with this problem. There must be a very clear signal to the sector, whether it is the banking or insurance sector, that they must stop hiding behind the Renault Act and provide clarity to the self-employed with whom they cooperate as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Capoen's 19419 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u29	Mr President, Mr Minister, although I tabled this question some time ago, I think it is still relevant. Beyond the legal provisions to exclude people from unemployment, beyond the statistical data regularly published on this subject, men and women are experiencing experience that is generally of little interest to decision-makers. This experience, however, is rich in teachings. One can legitimately wonder whether the excluded unemployed will give up looking for a job or whether, on the contrary, being excluded will remobilise them. Will they turn to work in the dark? Will they fall into precariousness and marginalization? The Brussels Employment Observatory has commissioned qualitative research on the experience of excluded unemployed people in order to better identify these issues. I regret that I am short of time to present this study to you because it is really very interesting. I must confine myself to the main but instructive conclusion: the study notes the failure of the policy of activation of job search. Discouragement and other disturbances characterize the excluded unemployed. Return to employment appears to be beyond reach. Selection on the basis of ineffaçable criteria, such as age, diploma, permit, origin, family burden, etc., seems insurmountable to them. The label of exclusion glues them to the skin. Minister, this study supports me in the idea that the federal government is simply putting in place schemes to exclude unemployment and that it is completely disinterested in the consequences. Of course, socio-professional reintegration falls within the competence of the federated entities, but you still remain responsible for the effectiveness of the policies you lead at the federal level. If a policy proves ineffective, you can always correct it. Here, for example, this could involve reorganising the possibilities for re-entering unemployment, at least in certain situations. These findings lead me to ask you the following questions. Have you planned an evaluation of the effectiveness of the exclusion schemes, i.e. the procedure for the termination of entitlement to integration allowances, on the one hand, and the procedure for the monitoring of active job search behaviour, on the other? Is there any possibility of better tracing the path of the excluded unemployed in order to evaluate these arrangements? Do you have any consultations or contacts with the federated entities on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Caprasse, like you, I have taken note of the qualitative study carried out by the Brussels Employment Observatory, which was transmitted to me by my colleague, Minister Gosuin. This study is rich in teachings. On the other hand, I have no doubt that a similar survey that would be carried out in the other regions of the country will arrive at the same findings as those you have found. My administration regularly evaluates the exclusion mechanisms. The evaluation of regional sanctions following the monitoring of active job search behaviour is an integral part of the annual report of the ONEM. A study on the impact of the restriction of entitlement to integration allowances was published on Friday 16 June on the ONEM website. This study, as well as that of the Brussels Employment Observatory, makes it possible, thanks to the overlapping of several socio-economic information, to make a global analysis of the situation of excluded persons, but does not allow to trace individual paths. Of the more than 12,000 people whose entitlement to the integration allowance has ended since February 2015, almost half have found a job within six months. Compared with the maintenance of the allowance a few years ago, the end of entitlement to the integration allowance increased the percentage of chances of finding a job by 32.3 points. Recently, I welcomed my regional counterparts as well as the heads of the regional employment services, in order to learn about their possible difficulties and to see to what extent changes should be made to the federal normative framework for monitoring the availability of the unemployed, which was transferred to the Regions following the sixth reform of the State. As a result, I am extending the notion of suitable employment to the idea of competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u31	Minister, thank you for these explanations. I am pleased to see that you are aware of what is happening behind all these exclusions. We must avoid and fear the arrival of these people in the CPAS because it is actually simply a matter of moving the problem. We will be paying attention to the follow-up that will be given in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u32	Question No 19430 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u33	Minister, some Danish companies are losing a lot of money because of the shortage of labour. With only 4.2% unemployment, many companies fail to find staff. They lose money and competitiveness. More than a third of companies in the industry find it difficult to recruit. This is the case with Clio Online. This Danish company sells educational software. His boss, Thomas Hansen, explained that he could not find computer engineers. He is all the more frustrated because his company is a pioneer in the educational software sector. She started ten years ago with only three employees. Today, it counts more than two hundred. It has even established itself in Sweden to conquer new markets but it refuses orders and has lost several million euros in recent years. The construction and services sectors are also affected by labour shortages. In these areas, economist Steen Bocian believes that foreign workers would be a solution to reduce the pressure on the labour market. He felt that the education level of the unemployed should be increased and that immigrants should have all the cards in hand to get a job because they were under-represented in the country. Mr Minister, what are the revenues used by Denmark to achieve such a situation, totally contrary to the Belgian situation, especially in Wallonia? The federal government has already put in place some structural measures to reduce our endemic unemployment. What solutions are working in Denmark and which you could apply in Belgium in order to recreate a new industrialization providing jobs? Training is one of the levers to achieve this. According to your sources, what needs to be improved in the training of young people at our universities and high schools so that they are competitive both in Belgium and internationally?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u34	Colleagues, I do not fully agree with your views on the subject. In other words, I have the feeling that the situation in Denmark, as you described it, is also in our home, where many vacant jobs are not taken. This goes hand in hand with unemployment, which in some parts of Belgium is no higher than in Denmark. If we look at the picture as a whole, we can see a less significant difference in terms of unemployment than in terms of total employment rates, a sector where Denmark has much better results than we do. It is not for me to explain Danish policy. However, in the international literature, the excellent performance of the Danish labour market has traditionally been explained by the flexicurity model, i.e. high labour mobility based on flexible labour law, a strong emphasis on the protection and activation of the unemployed rather than on the maintenance of existing jobs and greater attention to continuing training. Of course, everything that is being done in Denmark cannot be easily copied at home, but it is clear that Danish success is an inspiration for reforms in our country. I am thinking in particular of the law on work that is feasible and manageable or the recent decisions on the trial period. As far as industrial policy and education policy are concerned, I refer you to my colleagues in the Regions and the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u35	Mr President, I will be very brief. Minister, thank you for your answer. You rightly highlight some regional and community impacts. Nevertheless, I note with great satisfaction that, like me, you are observing the Danish model. It is true that West Flanders has about the same unemployment rate – extremely low – as Denmark. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to point out that I am going to turn my questions Nos. 19987 and 21317 into written questions. I think the same will apply to questions No 21366 and No 21367 by my colleague Kattrin Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u36	Question No 19476 by Mrs de Coster is considered withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u37	Mr Minister, a few months ago it became known that a number of Belgian employees of Ryanair, who are stationed at Charleroi Airport, have lodged a complaint with the European Court of Justice because they consider that they are not covered by Irish labour law but by Belgian labour law. Ryanair argues that they operate on aircraft registered in Ireland and therefore the Irish law applies to them. The complaint of the Belgian Ryanair employees is based on the fact that Irish legislation provides less social protection than the Belgian legislation. This means, among other things, that employees are not paid if they are ill, whereas this is the case under the Belgian Labour Act. There are also questions as to whether the Belgian Pay Protection Act is being complied with. For example, workers are paid for so-called scheduled flight hours only. Delays and time spent on tasks outside flight hours are not reimbursed. In this way, the standby hours performed at home are not reimbursed either. The transfer by Ryanair of the nature and cause of the illness in the event of incapacity for work is also in flagrant breach of Belgian law, as well as an alleged ban imposed by Ryanair on the conduct of actions in the event of serious labour disputes. It appears that there is also discrimination between the Ryanair employees with a fixed contract and those with a temporary employment contract. In the meantime, the European Court of Justice has already ruled that the workplace can determine the applicable labour law. The emphasis, however, is on the word "Can't'. I then come to my questions which actually apply to CityJet. Last year, Brussels Airlines contracted a number of regional European flights to CityJet. That is also an Irish airline that would not respect Belgian social legislation either. My questions therefore relate to both Ryanair and CityJet. Are you aware of this problem, Minister? Has there ever been an investigation of your inspection of the above-mentioned facts? Do you believe that the above-mentioned facts are in breach of Belgian law? In view of private international law, what legislation applies to the Belgian employees of Ryanair, who are stationed at Charleroi Airport, the Belgian or the Irish?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u38	Mr Van der Donkt, the Department for the Monitoring of Social Laws is aware of this dossier and has in the past already carried out checks on the employment of Ryanair in Brussels and Charleroi, both as regards pilots, crew and subcontractors, cleaning crews, baggage handling and so on. This has not so far produced any hard evidence of concrete infringements of Belgian labour regulations. Indeed, there is uncertainty or at least a great deal of dispute about the status of employees, in particular the national law applicable to them: Irish law following a compulsory choice of contract, the Belgian provisions of mandatory law or the law of another EU Member State. Some of the workers do not necessarily have a home base in Brussels or Charleroi, but another part does. Therefore, criminal proceedings could not yet be initiated in the absence of legal certainty. However, my inspection has actively contributed to the collection of the facts of social law in relation to the Belgian pilots' association which filed a claim for strike against Ryanair at the Brussels Commercial Court for unfair competition practices. However, the outcome of this procedure is not yet known. There is light at the end of the tunnel, as always, but one has to reach the end of course. The European Court of Justice has since been apprehended by a number of Ryanair employees employed in Charleroi and considered that the application of the designation rules of private international law confers jurisdiction on the Belgian courts and Belgian labour law would apply in full to their employment. So that is an important element. The Court delivered its judgment on 14 September 2017. It stated that, in order to determine the competent court, the concept of the place where the employee normally works... shall refer to the place where or from which the employee fulfils most of his obligations towards his employer. In order to determine that place in particular, it is for the national court to consider a series of indications. That is simply to use common sense, which is usually the case in law, but of course it still has to be applied. In the case of the air transport sector, the Member State from which the worker carries out his transport contracts, the place where the worker returns after his orders, the place where he receives instructions for his assignments and organises his work and the place where the work equipment is located. In this case, consideration must also be given to the place where the aircraft are stationed on which the work is normally carried out. The specific concept of home base cannot be equated with that, but is, of course, an important indication of how to determine that place. The ruling is very important and decisive for the further approach of the inspection services and the RSZ and will also define the rights of the workers concerned. The ruling will provide a benchmark for Europe as a whole and other low-cost companies operating with similar business models. I'm getting to CityJet with that. As far as CityJet is concerned, stationed in Zaventem, my supervisory department has not yet been called on. No research is therefore currently being carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I am sure that this dossier will continue to be closely monitored by your inspection services and myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u40	Minister, this question on the extension of flexi-jobs to other sectors dates back to 28 June. In the meantime, the Summer Agreement has indeed decided on enlargement and the Constitutional Court has also ruled on the settlement. Some of the questions remain relevant. An evaluation of flexi-jobs was announced by the government at the time. Did it happen? Was that the basis for the decision in the Summer Agreement? Or will that investigation still take place? What were the conclusions? Is there any more clarity on the scope? We are talking about an extension to the entire trade sector, including bakers, butchers, grocery stores, supermarkets and hairdressers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u41	Mr President, although the question is somewhat outdated, a number of aspects remain very topical. I agree with my colleague. Mr Minister, on 17 March we read in a Belga message based on your statements - I quote -: Minister of Economy Kris Peeters has asked the social partners for an evaluation of the system of flexi-jobs in the hospitality sector. As long as it isn't there, he doesn't want to expand the system to other sectors. I asked you a question on 1 October 2015. My colleague Nahima Lanjri had responded on behalf of the CD&V. I had made an inquiry because we thought the flexi-jobs bill could have adverse consequences. In addition, I said: "There is every reason to believe that in the short term its scope will be extended to other sectors." My colleague Nahima Lanjri, who is a member of your party, told me that she was opposed to extending the measures to other sectors, because that would really compromise social security. I was quite sensitive to this argument and agreed with her on this point. I've read about this summer's deal. Perhaps my impression was false, but it seemed to me that we were moving towards an application to other sectors. My questions are pretty simple. What changed your mind about this extension? Have any technical or social partners intervened? Does this assessment exist with regard to Horeca? You said that this was a condition for extending the flexi-job system to this sector. Finally, the third question is important to us. As you know, there is a little controversy between the Prime Minister and me about the figures on the quality of the jobs created. Thank you for reshaping the Prime Minister on these more than partial and partial figures. He indicated that 60,941 full-time jobs had been created. Fortunately, the Minister of Labour was more aware of the real figures and told the Prime Minister that it was obviously not 60,941 full-time jobs at all. This figure included many part-time workers. With regard to flexi-jobs themselves, what guarantee do you give us that they will not destroy other jobs? Here's my fourth question. The file is evolving. We conditionally bind flexi-jobs with the 4/5th time. Do you confirm to me that a person who has, for example, worked at 4/5th time last year, sees his rights open to work in flexi-job, while he no longer works at 4/5th time? Are rights available on the basis of past benefits? Is it true that some workers who do not work at 4/5th time can still have access to flexi-jobs? It is always said that it is complementary, but I believe that large areas could put people at work using the form of flexi-jobs while in the present they no longer work at 4/5th time. That was a bit more concrete than I wanted to ask you to update my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u42	Mr President, I am hopeful that questions that have been tabled some time ago will still remain valid. That, of course, says a lot about the questioners. An evaluation was carried out by the FOD WASO. It was on the website. I can give them to the committee secretary so everyone can have them in hard copy. An evaluation was therefore requested and delivered by the administration. We have also requested an evaluation from the social partners, but there has been no consensus. The government decided in the Summer Agreement to expand the flexi-jobs. It could have been destroyed by the Constitutional Court, but in the meantime the judgment is known and the court has not destroyed the decision on the flexi-jobs. The decision to extend the scope of flexi-jobs will therefore be fully implemented. The flexi-jobs are extended to a number of joint committees in the retail sector, in particular joint committee 118.03, 119, 201, 202.01, 202, 311, 312 and 314 and can now also be carried out by pensioners. In its judgment of 28 September 2017, the Constitutional Court dismissed the application in its entirety. The extension of the scope will therefore be able to be extended without legal problems. The measure will be included in the programme law which will shortly be submitted to Parliament. The flexi-jobs chapter falls within the competence of Minister for Social Affairs De Block, who will explain the substantive and budgetary aspects of the measure at the time of the debate in Parliament. The positive budgetary impact of the measure is estimated at €31.5 million due to the increase in employment and social contributions applicable to flexi-jobs. Finally, Mr Hedebouw, as far as your specific question is concerned, there is, of course, a delay of at least three quarters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. I was not aware of the report of the FOD WASO and I will certainly look at it again. It is good to hear that the extension of the scope is so clearly defined. The practice in the catering industry has already shown that such a scheme very often means a win-win situation for those who want to earn something and employers who are active in a labour-intensive and therefore sometimes difficult sector. I also believe that the hospitality industry has proven that flexi-jobs do not replace regular jobs. On the contrary, there will be more. A large part of undeclared work is now becoming white, which is better for everyone, not only for social security but also for workers, who are also building up social rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u44	To bounce back on the last reply, the question would be to ask what is the proportion of black work in the large distribution sector. I guess this sector is suspected of practicing it a lot. But I had more echoes. Perhaps it would be interesting for the minister to sponsor social inspections. My impression is that there is almost none. These flexi-jobs cannot replace it since it does not exist. It is important to return to a position of principle. "We stress that under no circumstances can it be the intention to extend this approach to other sectors," dixit Stefaan Vercamer on 22 October. It has always been claimed that flexi jobs would be limited to the catering industry and this sector would by no means be a test case for the introduction of flexi jobs. That seems to be the case. If that's possible for the big department stores, why not move on? I will not ask you for a guarantee not to extend the scheme any more, because it was not there the last time. It will therefore undoubtedly be expanded more and more. In that sense, I think flexi-jobs are not a good thing at all. I will review the opinion of the social partners. I knew there was no unanimity. Could you get the report of the FOD WASO to the chairman of the committee so that we can analyse it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u45	Mr Minister, on 20 December 2016, the NAR issued an opinion on a number of important adjustments to the Time Credit. Reference is made to Opinion No. 2014 of the same date that deals in particular with the possibility of parental leave in 1/10ths. The latter opinion states: "One agrees with the principle of an additional possibility of a proportionate reduction of work benefits in the context of parental leave in a ratio of 1/10th or full-time parental leave. However, the Council adds that the inclusion of parental leave which reduces working time by 1/10th must be submitted to the employer for agreement." The Council then made a few technical comments on the legislative proposal which was the subject of the opinion: "According to what had been said earlier, the Council urged that the necessary regulatory adjustments be made to implement this opinion." The other adjustments entered into force on 1 July 2017. I do not think that there has been any change in the rules on parental leave. Mr Minister, why was that part of the unanimous opinion not implemented? When can we expect these adjustments?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u46	At the end of 2016, the NAR indeed had a positive opinion No. 2014 on the introduction of 1/10th career reduction in the framework of parental leave with the additional condition that this should be submitted to the employer for agreement. This was the result of a request for the opinion of the Social Affairs Committee on the draft law amending the Law of 22 January 1985. In March 2017, several amendments were tabled to this bill in the Social Affairs Committee, which included a number of legal-technical comments and the desire of the social partners to submit the application for the 1/10th parental leave to the employer for agreement. At present, the legislative proposal and the amendments are still pending in committee. The introduction of the 1/10th parental leave requires not only an amendment to the Law on Recovery of 22 January 1985, as envisaged by the bill. After these adjustments have been made, the implementing acts of the above-mentioned law on parental leave will also have to be adapted to that effect before the one-tenth possibility can be effectively used. However, this is pending.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u47	Mr President, I will therefore have to address you, as the Minister has no difficulty in implementing it, as there is a unanimous agreement. Do you have a view on the planning of the proposal? When's it scheduled?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u48	Mrs Kitir, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u49	Mr President, that is not an answer. We shall raise the matter again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u50	Mr President, Minister, in the fight against burn-out and other psychosocial problems, we must think of every possible solution, because the number of people affected by such problems represents a third of the number of long-term sick and is therefore a very large group. You launched a proposal to install a pool of stress and burn-out coaches in each sector. Those coaches would accompany the workers with stress complaints and thus prevent a burn-out. It is therefore a matter of preventive action. The job description of these coaches is particularly similar to that of the existing prevention advisors psychosocial aspects. Minister, what is the difference or the distinction between the existing prevention advisers and the coaches in your proposal? Will the coaches provide added value on top of existing prevention advisors? How will you fit the stress and burn-out coaches into the existing welfare scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u51	Mr President, Minister, it became clear from a last month's Securex survey that the risk of burn-out increased by 7% in Belgium, from 10% in 2014 to 17% in 2017. One in six workers is exposed to the risk of burn-out. The Summer Agreement decided that companies with more than 100 employees should hire a burn-out coach. Mr Minister, will the use of these burn-out coaches rather serve a preventive or rather curative purpose? According to CM, instead of working on the consequences, better work would be done on the causes of burn-out, such as high workload, lack of variation in tasks, lack of autonomy, difficulty in relations with colleagues or managers, high emotional stress, physically burdensome working conditions, etc. Will these burn-out coaches also be able to make recommendations on work organisation, rhythm and workload? Do you not fear that such burn-out coaches will miss their goal if the companies in question do not intervene in the rhythm of work and the organization of work? What do you think of the ABVV's proposal, which requires recognition by the Fund for Occupational Diseases of Stress-related Diseases, for all workers in all sectors? Stress-related diseases and burn-out are well on the way to becoming the occupational diseases of the 21st century. In addition, recognition would increase investment in prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to give some figures. According to the RIZIV statistics, the number of people who have been disabled for more than one year increased by 75% between 2005 and 2016. We note that the increase is considerably greater among women entitled, which is, of course, explained by the increasing employment rate of women in the labour market and by the increase in retirement age. In addition, the ageing of the population in general also plays a role in these higher figures. So you need to be careful with that. Thanks to the progress of medicine and the better treatment of certain diseases, such as cardiovascular diseases, there are also shifts in the signs of long-term incapacity for work. Most of these long-term diseases are currently due to mental or mental disorders - between 30 and 35% - and to musculoskeletal and connective tissue diseases - between 25 and 30%. These may also be related. For example, excessive stress can cause or strengthen back pain. Burn-out is an important part of mental illness and can indeed lead to long-term absence from work. It is therefore essential to strengthen the prevention of such risks in companies. We want to do this by taking an initiative, within the framework of the implementation of the Summer Agreement, on burn-out prevention, which will be part of the Relance Act, which will also come to the Chamber. We have taken the initiative on the explicit question of the social partners. In the interprofessional agreement 2017-2018 they paid specific attention to burn-out. The work of the National Labour Council on this theme has led to the social partners' desire to support initiatives to prevent burn-out. The revenue from the employers' contribution of 0.10% for the risk groups coming from the sectors which have not closed sector-cao to the risk groups will thus also be used to finance projects which may be submitted by sectors or companies and which aim at the primary prevention of burn-out at collective level. This is certainly not about curative, individual aspects, such as the treatment of people who fail with burn-out, but for example the organisation of training, such as training for managers, information days, the development of awareness campaigns, the development of tools for sensitisation or early detection, websites, brochures, the exchange of good practices to prevent burn-outs. In addition, a project could also support the employers of a particular sector in implementing an action plan that takes into account the specific characteristics of that sector, such as strict deadlines, severe mental conditions, frequent contact with difficult customers, etc., for example by providing a pool of burn-out prevention coaches. It is also important to note that this is certainly not the only way to tackle burn-outs. There is already a comprehensive legal framework in the legislation on well-being at work. Burn-outs and other work-related stress problems are psychosocial risks linked or likely to be related to the work, which the employer must take into account in his risk analysis. He is also obliged to take the preventive measures to tackle psychosocial risks in consultation with his preventive services and with the consultation structures in the company, such as the Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work or the trade union delegation. The explanatory memorandum to the new draft law states that the initiative should therefore be seen as complementary to the legal obligations addressed to individual employers and for which they should rely on existing structures, such as the psychosocial prevention adviser. Of course, it is not allowed to use the means provided for in order to fulfil the employer's legal obligation on the grounds of welfare legislation, but, of course, it is intended that additional work should be carried out on and in cooperation with existing structures. Mr Spooren, your last question was about the frequency of the involvement of the prevention advisers on psychosocial aspects. According to the external prevention services, an average of 800 formal dossiers and 6 000 informal dossiers are dealt with by them each year. Those figures do not take into account the participation of the prevention advisers in the different psychosocial risk analyses in which they should be involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u53	Minister, we very much welcome this initiative. I think it is very important that this is done as far as possible, although a one-on-one result can never be proven. I mean that all the bits help. I understand from your reply that these are mainly preventive actions. I think it would also be useful if the knowledge and findings in the more curative section could be used. I mean very concretely in employment integration plans that will be drawn up for some. The knowledge gathered in the preventive section should also be taken into account. In addition, I believe that it is also important to be aware that most burn-outs are not only about work-related but also personal and social conditions when looking at all working conditions and how a company is organized. These elements must also be taken into account when working on preventive or curative measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u54	Minister, it seems clear to me that such rising figures are not linked individually but more socially. It's about the organization of our work. This is a very important parameter for burnouts. Problems in the family have always been there and therefore they do not constitute specific events of recent years. What is specific is the increasing rhythm of work and the new organization of work. I believe that it is important that the coaches should also be given control in this area. It should not be just about how people can learn to live with a high work rhythm. We must also talk about whether the high rate of labour is leading to tens of thousands of countrymen suffering from burn-out today. In this sense, I think it is necessary for the inspection services to put the employers and workers around the table in order to see how we can avoid tens of thousands of people falling out of our country. I hope that these coaches will have some say in this matter in the coming months so that they do not just have to ensure that a higher working rhythm is more digestible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u55	The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 19679 by Mrs Fonck and No. 19763 by Mrs Jadin. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 19679 was postponed. Mrs. Jadin is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u56	Mr President, I have already questioned you on this subject. Today it is the case that redundant workers with a long notice period often do not have to perform them effectively anymore and are therefore absent from the labour market for a large number of months before they become officially unemployed and have to register with one of the employment services. In this way, of course, valuable time is wasted to lead these people successfully and as soon as possible to a new job. This was also the reason why the federal government agreement contained the following passage: "Workers must register with the regional employment services within the month after the termination of the contract. This is a condition to be able to benefit from unemployment benefit. You told me last time that the discussions between the government and the social partners have not yet produced any results. The proposal was also not agreed within the NAR. What is today, x-number of times later, the state of play of the consultations on the implementation of this passage from the coalition agreement? In the case of the mysterycalls in the fight against discrimination in the labour market, you decided not to wait for an agreement from the social partners and to prepare a draft law yourself. But, unless you can convince me otherwise, there is also little progress with regard to the compulsory registration of jobseekers after the beginning of their notice. Will you, in the end, take the initiative in this dossier to implement the passage from the coalition agreement? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Raskin, it is my intention and my ambition to implement the whole part of the coalition agreement that lies within my competence. I have already taken an initiative on this subject, which I will return to later, but which has not been achieved since no consensus was reached. Workers who are made redundant with a termination allowance and who during the period covered by this allowance are no longer linked to an employment contract, are currently not obliged, as you also indicated, to register as a job seeker immediately after the dismissal. In the period covered by the termination allowance, they are also not entitled to unemployment benefit. Of course, if the dismissed worker finds another job immediately following the dismissal, such registration as a job seeker is not useful. If he or she does not immediately have another job ahead of him, registration as a job seeker can of course help in the search for a new job. Such registration can already be made on a voluntary basis during the period covered by the termination fee. The idea contained in the government agreement to which you referred was to convert this possibility into an obligation on a voluntary basis. At the beginning of this legislative period, discussions were held between the government and the social partners on this issue, as I said, I had taken an initiative to implement that part of the coalition agreement, but that did not lead to an agreement. The establishment of an obligation for employees to register within the month following the commencement of the notice of termination with the regional mediation services also presupposes that the employer who has effected service of the notice of termination states in the notice of termination that the employee must register with the regional mediation service within the month. There was still a pinch and a pinch of the shoe. This proposal has not been agreed by the NAR. I can tell you that this has also been discussed in the government. Without going into detail, there too, it has been said that the employer does not want to go so far as to mention it. So that's the background on this file. As I said, I will try to fully implement the part of the coalition agreement, which falls within my competence, including on this point. I must, of course, reach a consensus on this in the government and, preferably, with the social partners. Mr Raskin, I have told you where the problem lies, namely the mention by the employer, as indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. Part of it is the same as the answer I got last time. Of course, I am pleased to hear that you, together with all of us and with many others, want to carry out as much of the coalition agreement as possible. Apparently, it was also discussed within the government during the negotiations on the Summer Agreement. Allow me to stay away from that for a while. I know my humble place in this house. Perhaps, however, I can make a suggestion for a compromise. After all, you have not given up ambition, and fortunately. A possible compromise could be to make the notification that employers should make to employees, as you have just explained, standard through some clause in the notice. A protocol agreement could be drawn up on this subject, inter alia in consultation with the social secretariats. In this way, the flow of information could be guaranteed without burdening employers with too much administrative burden, and this could, of course, also exclude the risk of claims for damages. I'm sketching a big line here without a lot of details. I'm just giving it to you. I hope that I will give you the same modest leverage to work with the social partners and your colleagues in the government to implement that passage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne's 19755 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u60	Minister, BNP Paribas Fortis presented a remarkable plan at the beginning of January 2017 in the new wage negotiations. The bank's management wanted to top up gross wages to 4 700 euros. If you made more money, you'd get more pay in points. These points could be exchanged for, for example, additional holidays, cash or banking products. The Vision 2020 plan now applies. You yourself had big questions about this new way of rewarding BNP Paribas Fortis, as shown by your answer at the Social Affairs Committee of 21 March 2017. I quote: "I fully understand the desire of companies to optimise their wage costs. The government is making serious efforts to this end through reductions in charges and other competitive measures. All other ways of reducing labour costs must remain in line with the spirit and letter of the legislation. If there is no explicit possibility to pay wages in a different way, it must be paid in cash. I therefore have serious doubts as to whether the payout in units is in conformity with the Pay Protection Act and will therefore also have my inspection services carry out further investigations. In the light of this, Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, is the payment of wages in points or not in accordance with the law of 12 April 1965 on the protection of employees' wages and with the provisions of all collective agreements which have been declared generally binding on the subject matter? Secondly, have your inspection services in the meantime completed their investigation? If so, what is the result? If not, when is this expected? Thirdly, if the inspection services consider that the conversion of wages is in line with current legislation, have you taken an initiative to prevent such systems, which in that case set up legal tax evasion and RSZ, in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u61	Minister, this issue is not annoyance. Indeed, it concerns not only a large company in our country employing many workers and known to all - it is one of the four large banks - but also, if you let it do what is foreseen in Fortis' Vision 2020 plan and which is expected to come into force on 1 January, a lot of companies risk acting in the same way. In this case, they would no longer grant workers wages in euro, but would cap them, while they would pay employees in virtual currency. At BNP Paribas Fortis, it would be called units. As I have already indicated to you in previous questions, this is first of all a matter of concern with regard to compliance with the law on the protection of remuneration and, secondly, with regard to the financing of social security. Indeed, wages above the ceiling in euros would obviously not be subject to social contributions. Moreover, this would also be problematic from a budgetary point of view, since Fortis is seeking to obtain or may even have benefited from a ruling granted by the FPS Finances and exemption from corporate tax. Last March, you said you shared some of my doubts and you were then committed to requesting an investigation from the Social Inspectorate. In response to my last written question on this subject, you indicated that the report ordered from the Directorate-General for Social Law Control had just been completed and that you would "consider the conclusions with the utmost attention". On the other hand, you did not reply to me as to the content of the report and the follow-up you were going to give to it. Hence my questions, which are very logical. Minister, can you give us the conclusions of this report and, if necessary, give it to us? Are the provisions of the "Vision 2020" plan legal in the eyes of the Directorate-General for the Control of Social Laws? Has their impact on the financing of social security been estimated? What follow-up will you give to this report, and within what time frame? Finally, are you going to prevent BNP Paribas Fortis from implementing this plan, which, in my view, would be a serious precedent since it would risk encouraging more and more companies to circumvent the legality and financing of the State as well as that of social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u62	Mr. President, Mr. Van der Donckt, Mr. Gilkinet, I have asked the Directorate General Social Law Enforcement to investigate the legality of BNP Paribas Fortis' Vision 2020 plan. That report contains a number of very detailed elements. Let me explain to you the broad lines of this. The most important question to be answered concerns the concrete application of the Pay Protection Act by BNP Paribas Fortis. The key question in this report, which had to be answered, is the correct application by BNP Paribas Fortis of the law on the protection of remuneration. The Wage Protection Act puts pay in money as a general principle. In this way, a free allocation of wages to the employee is guaranteed the most. However, part of the remuneration may be paid in kind where this method of payment is common practice or desirable because of the nature of the industry or profession in question. This method of payment is only permitted if certain very specific conditions are met, in accordance with Article 6 of the Law on the Protection of Remuneration. This Article lists very strictly and exhaustively the elements which can be paid to the worker in the form of a wage in kind. These include housing, facilities, enjoyment of land, food, non-compulsory tool and labour equipment. Article 6 also determines the maximum ratio between the benefit in kind and the total gross wage of an employee. The payment of wages in the form of other benefits is, in principle, not in accordance with Articles 3 and 6 of the Wage Protection Act. First of all, it should be noted that a BNP Paribas Fortis employee always has the choice within the system to receive his wage in species. In this sense, the system is based on a certain agreement of the employee and therefore not prohibited in itself. The question of legality must be raised because the worker chooses to have his remuneration paid in an alternative way. It is the method of payment of remuneration that is problematic. In the range of benefits that BNP Paribas Fortis offers, we can distinguish three categories. Firstly, non-wage elements: particularly extra-legal holidays, saving time, saving time in holiday days. These options do not relate to wage payments in themselves and do not pose a problem in principle. Secondly, elements that make up wages in cash, such as fixed monthly premiums or one-off premiums, are not illegal. Thirdly, elements that make up wages in kind: the private use of a company car, the provision of ICT, equipment, internet connection, payment in cheques, such as meal cheques, ecocheques, household services, group insurance premiums, etc. The vast majority of these benefits in kind are not covered by the permitted method of pay in the current wording of the Wage Protection Act. However, it should be noted that in certain areas, such as taxation, social security and so on, the federal government has drawn up a number of schemes which do provide a framework for granting such benefits. For some benefits, this scheme is worked out in very detail. For others, this is limited to a more general framework. It can be concluded that, from the point of view of employment law, there is a problem of compliance with the wage protection law in the current dragonflying with certain advantages in the offer of BNP Paribas Fortis. However, this is not a new problem. These practices have been applied and tolerated for many years by many companies outside of BNP Paribas Fortis. If, in the present case, we explicitly consider that the BNP Paribas Fortis system is, in certain respects, illegal under employment law, this position will, of course, have to be taken further consistently vis-à-vis any company in Belgium which uses a similar system of pay. As I am preparing an exercise on harmonizing the concept of pay, I would like to await the consultation with my colleague De Block in this. In addition, we would like to consider whether some of the concepts of pay could not be brought into line with each other. We are currently looking at this exercise with the experts of the administration. Tomorrow there will be a meeting on this issue. It is not the intention at all to create legal uncertainty and confusion among employers and employees. A thorough analysis, including the consequences of certain scenarios, will therefore have to be carried out. We're working on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I look forward to the solutions you are looking for to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u64	Mr President, Minister, since I have been asking you about the risk of precedent in this matter for months, no matter what you said, I expected a clearer answer from you. I hear you need to discuss it and discuss it with Mrs De Block. At the company level, a CTC, which is not known whether it is legal or illegal, has been signed. It is announced that this new system will apply from 1 January 2018. I wouldn't want the facts to precede the decision you're going to make. It is up to you, the representative of the authority and the guarantor of the enforcement of the law, to give a clear signal to this undertaking. If the law is not explicit enough, you may wish to amend it to clarify the interpretation to be given to some of the elements of the law which are not clear and which, therefore, are used to transform wages into virtual currency, on which no contribution is paid. I feel like, if you let it happen, we're going back to the '60s, when we were working at the factory, we were going to have to buy our daily consumer goods from the factory store. Beyond the cost to social security and public finances, I do not think it is social progress. Mr Minister, I therefore ask you to decide quickly with Mrs De Block and to stop what seems to me to be a bad project. I'll ask you again about it. You can count on me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u65	Mr President, my question No. 19788 is linked to my question No. 21098. Debates of the European Parliament In fact, 19788 has already been answered in writing and my question No. 21098 is a follow-up question. I suppose Mr. Secretary of State will have seen that, too. Minister, in my initial written question of 7 June, I said that an employee should be a member of one of the three trade unions in order to be recognised as a port worker. You replied to that question in writing on 4 September. In light of that, I submitted a follow-up question. After listing the conditions of recognition for the classic port workers, you replied to my question about the conditions of union membership for the recognition of port workers: "As you can read, there is no relationship with union membership or non-union membership. Anyone can apply for recognition. The candidate can do so himself, or through his trade union if he is a member, the employer who wishes to employ him or even the employers' organization which sits on the administrative committee. The committee assessing applications shall be composed of representatives of the representative employers' organisations and the representative workers' organisations and shall be chaired by an official. Failure to recognise a candidate port worker is an administrative act which must be justified and is open to appeal to the labour court. In the light of that answer and based on experience in the field, I've organized some sort of mystery calls. On 3 October, a candidate-haven worker asked whether he could apply for recognition, or whether it would go through another channel. CEPA replied to that question as follows: The Federal Public Service Labour supplies the recognition of port workers from the general quota on the basis of a list of candidates proposed by employers and trade unions. If you wish to be recognized as a port worker of the general quota, it is therefore useful that you register with one of the three trade unions recognised in Belgium, the local branch of Antwerp. If you are interested in a job as a logistics employee, you should contact one or more port companies that develop logistics activities yourself. That written element, which I also included in my question, was confirmed by telephone. On the telephone it was even explicitly said that membership of one of the three trade unions is necessary to be able and allowed to become a port worker. On the basis of CEPA's reply, do you not agree that membership of one of the three recognised trade unions is necessary in order to be recognised as a port worker? Secondly, whether or not that arrangement is contrary to the negative freedom of association as laid down in Article 27 of the Constitution, Article 1 of the Law of 24 May 1921 on freedom of association, Article 11 of the ECHR, ILO Convention No. 87 and Article 22 of the BUPO Convention? Finally, will you have an investigation conducted to finally get the facts straight?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u66	Mr Van der Donkt, I have given you those eight conditions. I would like to repeat once again that there is indeed no relationship with whether or not there is a trade union. Anyone can apply for recognition. The candidate can do so himself or through his trade union, if he is affiliated, and the employer who wishes to employ him, or even the employer's organization which sits on the administrative committee. The committee assessing the application shall be composed of representatives of the representative employers' organisations and the representative workers' organisations and shall be chaired by an official. But you knew all that, since you've even deployed mystery calls. Failure to recognise a candidate port worker is an administrative act which must be justified and is open to appeal to the labour court. The regulation is not contrary to international and constitutional rules on trade union freedom. Compulsory membership is in principle contrary to all kinds of national and international standards. An infringement of negative syndical freedom is rightly condemned by the European Court of Justice on the basis of the ECHR and others, but that is not the case here. I'll talk about the CEPA message later. The European Social Rights Committee of the Council of Europe has already dealt with a complaint about the alleged closed shop in the port of Antwerp. In 2003, the Committee closed the procedure. It considered that the situation was in line with the European Social Charter, given that the conditions laid down in the Royal Decree were the basis for assessing recognition. It is true that the wording in the e-mail received from CEPA was unfortunate. Your mystery call has rightly made something clear. Although the e-mail you quote does not mention that you should join a trade union, it is said that it is useful to register with one of the trade unions as a candidate port worker. It is therefore not said that it would be useful to join one of these trade unions, but that it would be useful to register with one of them in order to put the registration in order as a candidate. However, I agree with you that, although the e-mail does not oblige or call for membership of a trade union, the candidate who reads it, may decide that he is expected to do so. As a result of your question, that is also the advantage if you ask questions. My policy cell has contacted CEPA with the question to redirect communication with candidates. CEPA turned out to have already taken action in this way, perhaps because of your good activities, who knows. Candidate port workers are no longer recommended to contact trade union organisations. However, they still receive information from the trade unions and from CEPA itself so that they can freely decide whether or not they want to use the services offered. I would also point out that it is not unusual for employers to bring new workers into contact with trade union representatives, often in the context of a reception meeting. Such initiatives also bear witness to a good social environment and dialogue within the company rather than to any form of compulsion which could be exercised on workers to join a trade union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I thought it would be useful to ask the supplementary question, because there was apparently an old bad habit of recruiting port staff. I hope that, thanks to your intervention, you will be clear about this and that these old habits are out of the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u68	Mr Hedebouw is not present to ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u69	Mr President, Minister, this is yet another follow-up question on the issue of DHL's use of day-to-day contracts. A follow-up question has already been asked about this matter. You will therefore find that the question is closely followed up by me, or at least by my colleague. Minister, both in plenary and in committee, you have already been questioned about the use of daily contracts with DHL. You replied at the time that the Monitoring of Social Laws had started an investigation into the correctness of the motives for temporary agency work and the impact and extent of successive day contracts. You also replied that four similar investigations were initiated at airport companies. The TSW would also conduct a number of investigations at national level. There would be an evaluation report on collective agreement No. 108 specific information and consultation procedures for successive daily contracts. You gave an answer last time, but I would have liked to ask the following questions. What is the final result of the TSW's investigation at DHL? What is the result of the examination of the TSW by the four other airport companies? What is the outcome of the investigations at national level? Is the evaluation report already available? If so, what is the content? If not, when is its availability planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van der Donkt, as a result of the broadcasting of the divisive magazine Pano, of certain abuses in the use of successive temporary agency contracts, my inspection services were instructed to closely monitor the regulation of temporary agency work in the immediate future and to take a number of targeted actions, both at DHL and at a number of other large companies in the region. In this context, the Monitoring of the Social Laws should manually request and check the data on the day-to-day contracts with the company in question. It also examines the motivation of temporary work, such as the replacement of a permanent worker. It also compares the evolution of this form of employment with the other forms of employment and examines individual wage and working time data of these workers. Several persons in different positions are also questioned about this. All this implies that the investigations, both at DHL and the other large companies in the region, have not yet been fully completed. In addition, I asked the social partners in the National Labour Council to carry out an evaluation of the regulations on the use of successive daily contracts by the end of October 2017. The social partners are currently working on this exercise and have already devoted several meetings to it in the National Labour Council. They can count on the necessary support from the relevant services of my administration. They cannot therefore use this as an argument if they are not on time. On the basis of the answers given by the social partners in their evaluation report, we will examine the areas where changes should be made to the rules on temporary agency work. At the moment, therefore, I will not comment on possible concrete measures. We are still a few days away from the end of October, so just a moment of patience. However, I would like to stress that I am in favour of a negotiated solution, which is supported by all the social partners. I have made it clear to the social partners that abuse of successive daily contracts is not acceptable. I therefore assume that the solutions they develop will help to stop such abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u71	So, Minister, I will come up with a third follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u72	Minister, the government is working to keep older workers in work for as long as possible and encourages employers to do so. The National Bank announced that in the next three years, some 400 of its employees between 57 and 60 years of age could leave the bank while maintaining between 45% and 60% of their gross wage. The National Bank will help them find a job elsewhere. Training and outplacement should help the movers to find another job. The offer would only apply to operational staff performing an executive function. This means that most staff with a degree in higher education are not eligible. The exit scheme is remarkable because the National Bank underlines the importance of longer working in its annual report. I quote: '... in a context of longer careers, it is crucial that 50+ people are kept at work'. Governor Jan Smets does not consider his own exit arrangements to be contrary to that plea. That's odd. This exit scheme is reminiscent of previous arrangements at ING and Engie Electrabel. Minister, I would like an answer to the following questions. Firstly, is there no discrimination in this case, inter alia on the basis of age? Secondly, is there no discrimination because the scheme would apply only to operational staff with executive functions and not to others? Thirdly, does the National Bank not have an exemplary role to play, and is the proposed exit scheme not contradicted? Does this attitude not undermine the premises which the bank itself places in its annual report? Fourthly, is such an attitude not contrary to the coalition agreement and to the positive attitude that human capital is the most important part of an enterprise? Fifthly, have you already contacted the Governor of the National Bank to discuss this questionable exit scheme and to transform it into a creative, innovative solution with respect for older staff? Sixthly, have you already instructed your administration to investigate whether a possible change of law could bring relief to avoid such practices in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u73	Recently several banking institutions, but also other large companies, have announced (...) One of these banking institutions is indeed the National Bank. The National Bank offers a number of older employees an exit scheme. In that case, those workers retain part of their pay. They can also follow training and outplacement for two years. This exit scheme is due to the closure of a number of local establishments and the printing works. A difference in treatment based on age is not necessarily discrimination. In accordance with Article 12 of the Law of 10 May 2007 on combating certain forms of discrimination, a direct distinction based on age in relation to employment relationships and supplementary social security schemes is not discrimination where it is objectively and reasonably justified by a legitimate objective, including legitimate objectives of employment, labour market policy or any other similar legitimate objective, and where the means for achieving that objective are appropriate and necessary. The fact that the scheme would only apply to certain functions does not in itself constitute a prohibited grounds for discrimination, as provided for in the above-mentioned Law of 10 May 2007. There is, of course, the possibility that we are dealing with an indirect distinction. This is the situation which arises where an apparently neutral provision, measure or practice can particularly harm persons, characterised by a certain criterion of protection, compared with other persons. However, it is not for me to further assess the existence of any discrimination in this case. It is only the courts and tribunals which have jurisdiction to rule on the existence of any discrimination, taking into account the justification put forward by the person who instituted the difference in treatment. However, regardless of the question of the legality of this measure, I regret the decision taken by the various companies which have developed such an early retirement scheme. I have already underlined this in response to your questions. After all, it is a bad signal, while it is necessary to keep older workers longer at work and many other measures are currently being taken in this area. That is why, in implementation of the Summer Agreement, the Council of Ministers has already approved the activation contribution through the programme law at first reading. The second reading is of a more recent date and the programme law will therefore come to Parliament shortly. What exactly does this measure entail? An early retirement scheme is about employers exempting older workers from benefits, while maintaining wages up to retirement age. That's the early retirement scheme. Companies that conclude collective or individual agreements in this respect or, if necessary, submit them as from 28 September, will have to pay an activation fee as from 1 January 2018 depending on the age at which the employee entered an early retirement scheme. For permanent sectoral systems where new entrants may remain unlimited, the contribution will be due for entry from 1 January 2018. The contribution rate remains constant until the employee reaches the statutory retirement age. The contribution is not due when the employer invests in the training of the employee concerned and when the employee resumes work as an employee or self-employed person for at least one third of the full-time equivalent, whether or not with the same employer. When the employee terminates that activity, the contribution is again due by the employer who had exempted him from benefits. This measure should ensure that everyone, workers and employers, is encouraged to achieve sustainable careers based on sustainable employability. Focusing on training and activation, both for employees and self-employed, is the most important response that can be given to the current demographic and socio-economic challenges we face. The budgetary revenue from this measure was calculated as follows: 3 million euros in 2018, 6 million euros in 2019, 9 million euros in 2020, and 12 million euros in 2012. We have also taken the period from 2022 onwards, for which we expect EUR 15 million in RSZ contributions from the people who start working again or work longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u74	Thank you, Minister. The emphasis of my question was, of course, on the fact that this is the National Bank. You regret that private companies do so. I understand that as a government minister, you regret that you have little impact there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u75	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u76	But you can send out a clearer signal than you can to private companies. Anyway, I'm sure you've spoken with the National Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u77	Mr Minister, when we look at the figures of employment in the catering sector on the RSZ site, we see that in the fourth quarter of 2016 19 064 flexi jobbers delivered performances corresponding to the employment of 2 000 full-time equivalents. In addition, between the fourth quarter of 2014 and the same quarter in 2016, the number of ordinary people employed decreased from 143 840 to 139 044, but the volume of hours they performed went from 71 995 to 77 831. So despite fewer people working, there have been more overtime. Mr Minister, how can it be that during the same period the number of overtime was increasing, because the law introduced by the flexi-jobs also created an opportunity to have 360 overtime performed annually without contributions or taxes, but also without overtime, which actually makes them cheaper for the employer than normal hours. From the RSZ statistics I cannot determine which part of the indicated employment relates to normal or overtime. How did the number of overtime evolve and more specifically the gross is equal to net overtime?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u78	This is a bit of a figure discussion, because it is not so obvious because we do not have all the data. You ask about the evolution of the number of overtime hours declared to the RSZ for which the salary is free from social security contributions, so gross is equal to net, which were performed by the employees, employed with a full-time contract with an employer from the hospitality industry or a temporary agency for a use from the hospitality industry. Since these special overtime hours were only introduced on 1 December 2015, I can only give figures from the fourth quarter of 2015 which is an incomplete quarter, i.e. one month instead of three months. One has to deal with this carefully because of course the relevance has been chewed. In the fourth quarter of 2015, 38 035 of these exempted overtime hours were performed. This number has increased significantly in the subsequent quarters and amounted to 344 680 hours in the second quarter of 2016. In the two consecutive quarters it was 441 848 and 396 875 hours respectively. I'll give you my written preparation later. The earnings freed from contributions corresponding to those hours increased from a good 500 000 euros in the fourth quarter of 2015 to around 6.7 million euros in the third quarter 2016. In the fourth quarter of 2016, this mass of wages was around 6 million euros. Like the number of exempted overtime hours, it was therefore at a slightly lower level than in the third quarter. Unfortunately, more recent figures are not available. I'd like to give you one more thing. These normal overtime hours are coded in the declaration in the same way as normal hours. So there are no administrative figures on those ordinary overtime hours that are actually coded as normal hours. That is another element that I would like to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll analyze your figures in a minute. It is not my intention to organise a numerical discussion. Our main fear in making overtime cheaper was that it would allow existing workers to work more rather than create new jobs. If I compare your figures from the fourth quarter of 2015 with those from the second quarter of 2016, where you indicate that they have increased enormously, that seems to confirm our fears. I'll go over the figures thoroughly first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u80	Minister, the RVA still has to look every year for many millions of unemployment benefits unduly paid to recover them. For 2016, this amounts to more than EUR 87.5 million. This is a smaller amount than the previous years, but it is of course still a considerable sum. Therefore, it was decided under the 2018 budget to improve the recovery of those unduly paid fees, which means that an additional 51 million will have to be recovered by 2018. Have you already had contact with the RVA on concrete measures to achieve this ambitious budgetary objective? If so, what was the result of that contact? Can you give an indication on the areas where better recovery is possible? Where do you expect an extra 51 million euros for 2018? Of course, better and faster recovery is needed, but it is even better to avoid unfairly paid unemployment benefits. Do you have any measures in mind for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u81	Mr Raskin, in the framework of the 2018 government budget, EUR 50.7 million has been registered through the recovery of unduly granted benefits and the avoidance of undue payment of benefits. The objective is to recover 10% from the general administration of the collection and recovery of the FPS Finance. Therefore, the RVA will enter a budget of €45.63 million in the initial budget for 2018. The total amount of unfairly paid unemployment benefits will be reduced by even more thorough systematic checks by the RVA. Specifically, this means data mining and data matching. The RVA is already carrying out 33 different systematic checks by crossing internal and external databases. So that's the data match. Of these there are some 20 a-priority checks, i.e. before payment is made. Some a-priority checks are carried out by the pay institutions: checking the accumulation of unemployment with paid employment or sickness benefits, checking the place of residence and family composition. The other a-priority checks are carried out by the RVA itself: the control of the accumulation of unemployment with career breaks, with an independent activity or a pension, the control of the members of the unemployed's family with regard to replacement income, etc. In addition, the RVA carries out 13 a-posteriori checks, i.e. checks after payment. These include the detection of the accumulation of unemployment or interruption benefits with paid or self-employed employment, the accumulation of unemployment and a pension or unemployment, and the checks on the effective residence in Belgium for unemployment benefits or outside the EEC, career breaks. The RVA generalises and refines its systematic data crossings. Data mining techniques will be further used to better focus controls on risk situations and to improve the relationship between detected infringements and checks carried out. The recovery of unduly paid benefits will be increased. The unemployment offices were sensitized to the importance of regular follow-up of recovery files in order to take the necessary action in those files. Those actions seek to generate income either because they lead to voluntary payments or because they consist of making deductions on benefits which are due to expire on the basis of Article 1410, Paragraph 4 of the Court's Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u82	Mr President, Minister, thank you for this overview. I hope that the result will be similar. I cannot get rid of the impression that it is a whole task that will have to be worked on intensively. You also indicate that the RVA refines its controls. I believe that, because the figures are falling. I have already mentioned this in my introduction. I would like to take this opportunity to return to the principle in my third question, which is to prevent undue payment of benefits. I made a suggestion to you a moment ago. I will go further and think that a single management, payout and control body might benefit things, even if that is not in the coalition agreement. It won't be until tomorrow. That's not the point. Such a body would be transparent, less complex and more efficient and would save a lot of energy to go after those wrongly paid benefits afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u83	Minister, the European Commission has suspended the letter of formal notice concerning the Major Act of our country. But the problem is not over, because for e-commerce and logistics there is still a lot of work to be done. You have always promised to use yourself after the termination of the notice of formal notice to resolve the problems in these sectors. On an earlier question, you said that the first cautious contacts were made and that you would look at how we can solve the problems in the weeks and months afterwards. Moreover, as far as my information is correct, there would still be no workers working in the port recruited outside the pool. There have also been no changes in shift compositions. In other words, things are not as smooth as they were supposed to be. We do not want Europe to be forced to reopen the procedure. After all, we will be where we started and that cannot be the intention. How will we deal with the concrete problems in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u84	Mr Minister, according to some interpretations, non-water or port-related activities within the geographical boundaries of the port area fall within the definition of port-work and therefore fall within the scope of the Major Act. However, due to their nature, these activities have nothing to do with the classic port labour. We are talking specifically about typical e-commerce activities such as sorting goods, filling packages and preparing those packages for shipment. There is no objective reason why such activities should be subject to a different legal framework simply because they fall within the geographical boundaries of a port area. The existence of a specific regime for port labour may be justified in view of the associated security risks. But that is not the case for e-commerce activities. You have already taken important steps forward in the wider port work dossier, for which we sincerely thank and appreciate. In June, you stated that you had made the first cautious contacts to find a solution for e-commerce. What's the status? In your opinion, will an amendment of the Major Act be necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u85	First of all, Mr Klaps, I am pleased to say that the social partners of the various seaports are in the process of implementing the agreement with the European Commission. The evaluation of the shift system in the port of Antwerp has now been carried out, leading to a more logical classification of the shift system, the elimination of a number of shift systems and some additional changes which make the work more efficient. In addition, work to make the solidarity contribution operational, ongoing or completed in the various ports is ongoing. In Antwerp, this has already led to a collective agreement reviewing the existing contribution rates. For their part, the Flemish Government and the VDAB have already largely completed their work on the quality criteria for the training of port workers, including the publication of the decision of 28 April 2017 determining the quality criteria for the influx training of port workers, which is currently being further developed by the VDAB. I can tell you that in Antwerp, two candidate port workers started their training with a view to their recruitment outside the pool. It is important that we keep the agreements with Europe and implement the agreement faithfully. In addition, we take daily initiatives to improve our labour market. In the Summer Agreement we also introduced a system to further shape night and Sunday work for e-commerce activities. This is part of the programme law which will shortly be submitted to the Chamber. Finally, it is indeed important that reforms do not stop. As in the past with the port file, I prefer to deal with the negotiations in a discreet manner, because this method, as witnessed by the file on the default notice, leads to the best results. I have noted in my contacts that the workers' organisations and employers' organisations recognise the importance of further developing port activities. Last Thursday, at the ceremony of the Honorary Signs for Labour in the Port of Antwerp, I was able to see how high the workers are in the banner of their profession. I am sure that with this attitude we will be able to bring to a successful conclusion the further modernisation of the port. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand you're a little impatient. It is also your job to hunt me down, which I can appreciate to some extent. My collaborators and myself are making step by step and with the greatest discretion on the work of the dossier, as I promised at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I do believe that it is one of our tasks to hunt you down a little bit, especially in files as sensitive as this. I would like to say for the occasion, once again if necessary, that we are of course very pleased with the quality that our port workers deliver daily in port. The results obtained by our port in Antwerp speak for themselves. That goes very well, of course. However, you also know from previous comments that there are many more possibilities. We've been stuck with that procedure for years. Your predecessors have also been working on this for years. That has finally been resolved and it is, of course, frustrating to see that things are still very slow on the ground. Apparently, there are already two people in training. That's news to me. However, we will continue to monitor this matter and ensure that steps are taken forward, albeit slowly, but in the right direction. I will therefore continue to return to this matter on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u87	Minister, as you know, social elections took place in our country in 2016. The next social elections will take place in 2020. There are still certainties. These social elections are an essential link in the social dialogue at company level, but there are a number of legal and procedural aspects which still affect the democratic nature of these social elections. In her question, however, Mrs Fonck said that she was not present to discuss the participation of women in the social elections. Unlike the elections to municipal councils, provincial councils and parliaments, there are no mechanisms in the social elections that ensure a balanced distribution of the number of men and women. Of course, different companies have different proportions of the number of female and male workers, but this could be taken into account in the future and formulas could be developed for this. There is another important democratic deficit. Unless it concerns executives, it is de facto impossible to participate in the social elections as a non-classical trade union. The three existing trade unions, the ACV, ADVV and ACLVB, have a monopoly. That's not democratic. Imagine that the legislator would decide that only socialists, liberals and Christian Democrats should be allowed to participate in the parliamentary elections. That would be outrageous. Alternative groups should also be allowed to participate in the social elections. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. Do you think that a mechanism should be put in place to encourage the proportional participation of women and men in social elections? Do you agree that non-classical trade unions should also be able to participate in the social elections?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u88	Mr Van Quickenborne, during the social election procedure, my administration collects statistics from over 6 500 companies and more than 10 000 procedures. After the social elections, she publishes detailed statistics, which you can consult on the website. As regards your questions regarding the representativeness of women in the context of the social elections, the 2016 election results again show a slight increase in the percentage of women candidates. This continued increase since several elections does not alter the fact that women are under-represented as candidates for the social elections. While women account for 50.9% of the workforce in the companies starting the electoral procedure for setting up a Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work and 51.2% of the staff in companies starting the electoral procedure for setting up a works council, the percentage of female candidates and elected representatives is much lower. For the election of the committee, only 35.2% of the candidates and 39.3% of the women elected are women. For the election of the works council, only 33.6 % of candidates and 36.6 % of women elected are women. However, we note that in general the percentage of women elected is higher than the percentage of women candidates, which shows that women prefer the electorate to represent them on the works council or on the committee for prevention and protection at work. This trend has been confirmed in the statistics since several elections and allows us to decide that the reason for the under-representation of women must be sought in the composition of the lists of candidates and the motivations for the candidate for the social elections. As regards the composition of the lists of candidates, I would like to draw your attention to the existence of Article 29 of the Law of 4 December 2007 on the Social Elections, which provides that representative workers' organisations and representative organisations of executives and executives should, as far as possible, ensure that employees of the various sections of the company are represented on their lists of candidates and ensure that workers and workers are represented on their lists of candidates in relation to their respective interests in each category of workers for which candidates are submitted. On the occasion of the previous social elections, on the occasion of the draw and through press releases, I asked for more attention to be paid to the gender issue and we also launched a call for respect for the gender relationship in the composition of the candidate lists for the 2016 social elections. On the question of the right of non-classical trade unions to participate in social elections, I believe that only representative trade unions can participate in social elections, since they are the only ones able to represent workers on the basis of representativeness. However, I know that this gives rise to very interesting discussions. In this context, I can refer to Articles 4, 6th and 33, §1, 1st paragraph of the Law on Social Elections. Those articles determine the conditions for an organisation to be able to nominate candidates for social elections. The requirement for representativeness, as set out in Article 4.6, was introduced in order to ensure the best possible representation of workers, but also to ensure permanent and effective social dialogue and to preserve social peace. Representativeness is a legitimate objective which avoids syndical anarchy and highlights the need for stability in the context of social dialogue. I understand that this may give rise to some reaction. The possible discriminatory nature of these legal provisions has already been mentioned by the Constitutional Court. The Court examined the provision in accordance with Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution and concluded in its judgment of 15 January 2009 that the fact that only representative workers' organisations may nominate candidates for the social elections does not infringe the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u89	Minister, you referred to the commitment to effort. I think it would be better to have a commitment to results, as in parliamentary elections. We too are obliged to reach half men and half women. The result is that there is a good representation of women. Isn't this right, Mrs. Dedry? I call for this to be done before the social elections. On the other point, this is obviously a sensitive ideological debate. I believe that in the 21st century social partners should also show some signs of change.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u90	Minister, in July I already asked you about the measures necessary for the effective implementation of the law of 5 March 2017 on workable and manoeuvrable work. You replied that employers and trade unions were still busy negotiating the concrete effects. You also said that we should give them some time, that the adoption of a number of sectoral agreements was merely a matter of days and that the sectoral negotiations were not rigid. However, in some sectors they had to start, but you did not wish to intervene with accompanying measures for the time being. Hence my follow-up questions I would like to get an overview of the progress made over the last three months. When do you think the interlocutors will land? When will the implementation of the law be effective? I am referring to the introduction of the new career model, with a career account, as agreed in the government agreement. I would also like to receive answers to the following specific questions. What's the status on this one? By what time do you expect an IPA from the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-24-54-commissie-ic757x.u91	You know that the law on manoeuvrable and workable work aims to create a framework for a modern, tailor-made labour law. A number of chapters of this Act contain the provisions with direct effect. Companies may make use of these provisions by amending their employment regulations or by concluding a collective agreement at company level. The law does not provide for any specific reporting mechanism for these measures to my department. Other measures concern provisions that need to be activated at sectoral level in order to make use of them. This concerns in particular the extension of the plus minus conto, the temporary employment contract of indefinite duration, the career savings and the grant of conventional leave. For the plus minus conto, the metal sector, Joint Committee 111 and two Joint Subcommittees in this sector have so far taken the decision to generalise the system to the whole sector. With regard to the temporary agency work contract for an indefinite period, a meeting was held on 17 October within the competent Joint Committee for temporary agency work. Unfortunately, no agreement could be reached there. That's what the media got. I take note of that. I would like to stress that in the social dialogue, the fact that we do not want to negotiate today does not mean that the parties do not go back to the table at some point in order to reach an agreement. In this case, a social mediator can take further initiatives. We are following this very closely to ensure that progress is made there. In relation to career savings, the legal framework provides for a subsidiary scheme, which would enter into force on 1 August 2017 if no collective agreement on career savings had been concluded at that time in the National Labour Council. However, the date of 1 August could be extended by a Royal Decree for six months. The latter took place through the Royal Decree of 25 June 2017. In concrete terms, this means that the National Labour Council will have until 1 February 2018 to draw up its own rules on career savings. This approach and timing was requested by the social partners and was motivated by a number of concerns and concerns about the legal framework on career savings. The relevant discussions in the National Labour Council are still under way. Of course, it remains to be seen whether the time available to the social partners will be sufficient to reach an agreement. Finally, no sector has so far developed any initiative on conventional leave. On 17 October, a total of 64 agreements were concluded in the Joint Committees in application of the workable work law, 54 of which concern an agreement on training and training. However, agreements were also concluded on working hours, voluntary overtime and the plus minus conto-system.
