ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u2	Mr President, I am speaking on the organisation of topical issues. Today, obviously, disorganization prevails. Two members of my group wanted to be able to ask questions to ministers and their requests were not met. My colleague Gilles Vanden Burre, knowing that Minister Peeters was absent, asked to be able to interview Minister Borsus with a specific angle regarding SMEs. You are proposing that the question be put to Minister Geens. Unless there has been a change of jurisdiction within the government, it seems to me that Minister Geens is not yet, at all, in charge of SMEs. Of course, this is a problem that affects other ministers, but the angle of attack taken by my colleague is specifically that of SMEs. We therefore ask that this question be put to Minister Borsus. Mr. Reynders is not present. But we learn this this morning at 10:15 a.m. when yesterday, in the Conference of Presidents, it was announced. My colleague Wouter De Vriendt agrees to reorient his question, but by keeping the same angle, this time addressing it to Minister De Croo, who is present. We therefore hope that he will be able to respond. He's opining. So it's fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u3	Mr Nollet, in fact, and I apologize if my answer is wrong, I understood that there was a question from Mr Vanden Burre to Minister Geens. So I have to look at my oral question sheet. In the Conference of Presidents, it was known that Minister Peeters was on his way from Luxembourg but that he would not arrive in time. From there, the decision...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u4	What about Minister Borsus?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u5	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u6	In your table, on the page concerning Minister Geens, it says: "Mr. Vanden Burre, question addressed to Minister Borsus."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u7	I turn to the government... Is Minister Borsus here? Is he in the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u8	Perhaps we can find out while the first questions are being asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u9	I need to look at this. With respect to the question to Minister Reynders, I recognize a small miscommunication. As you said, yesterday we thought Minister Reynders would be here. But this morning it appeared that he was in New York, far from here. It's a miscommunication. I do not want to surprise Minister De Croo, but if he is willing to answer the question, I agree. Mr De Croo, will you answer? (The Minister shakes his head in the negative) Then I suggest we stick to the scenario that was agreed. [[Objection]] I understand that, too. Anyway, I didn't know anything. It's a very difficult issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u10	Mr President, we have indeed complied with the list of absent ministers which we have received. We have tabled a question on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence are responsible for this. We have addressed our question to Minister Vandeput. I am surprised to note that the question was assigned to Minister Bacquelaine. I would nevertheless like Mr Vandeput to come and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u11	We have communicated on this in advance, Mrs Kitir. I told you what I was told, in particular that in the matter in question, this depends on government to government, at the time of the division of powers at the beginning, Minister Vandeput was absolutely prepared to come here but is not competent from any side. That is a matter for Mr Reynders. The replacement of Mr Reynders, Mr Bacqelaine, will therefore reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u12	Mr President, with all due respect, your argument is that it depends on government to government. In the past, the Minister of Defence has also expressed an opinion on, for example, the ban on landmines. The Secretary of Defense had not been reported absent. He's here. We have addressed the question to him. We continue to ask for the question to be put to the Minister of Defence and not to the Minister of Pensions, who is indeed not competent on the subject from any point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u13	It's not about the Minister of Pensions, it's about the Secretary of Defense. The Minister for Pensions is acting as an alternate for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If the Secretary of Defense lets me know that he is in no way competent, who am I to say he has to answer anyway. You'll understand, won't you? I will have the powers checked again and I shall come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u14	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u15	Mrs. Temmerman, I repeat. Mr Bacquelaine replied on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Period. That has nothing to do with his own authority. He replaces the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We are waiting to see if the Minister of National Defence is competent or not. The situation is the same with regard to Mr Borsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u16	Mr President, Minister, there has been a terrible tragedy in London. A HLM building of social housing has been set on fire. The provisional record is currently 17 dead and 78 injured, but it could be far more serious than that. We have a first problem which is that this building was obviously not up to standards. There is also one observation: not everyone is equal in terms of fire. Often, and this example confirms this, it is the poorest who are victims of this kind of incident. For example, the former president of the Association of Residents of the building stated: "90 per cent of residents signed a petition at the end of 2015 complaining about the maintenance of the building. If the same problems had been reported in a rich neighborhood, it would have been answered but, here, no." This is true even in Belgium. I remember the Mesange fire in Mons, where social housing was also involved and in Schaerbeek in January. Not everyone is equal in the face of this kind of drama. The question that everyone is asking in Belgium and in other countries is whether it is possible that the same will happen in our country. What is a bit worrying in this area is that most of the buildings built in the sixties and seventies, including all these social housing units, are not up to standards, according to what we are told. Firefighters tell us that if they wanted to control all these old buildings to bring them up to standards or simply check that they are, they would need twice as many firefighters as they are now. In addition, it is known that firefighters regularly complain about both the lack of manpower and the lack of equipment with sometimes very old and other trucks. We also know that this is a large building. The large ladders are 30 metres long. Fifty-metre ones are quite rare in firefighters. Some also say that there is no knowledge of buildings at risk. For example, I have a statement here from someone in charge of a rescue zone that says: "We don't have a precise record of all the towers that aren't up to standards. We know a few of them like that, but only from memory. We just intervene when we're asked." Mr Minister, my questions are simple: is a tragedy like the one in London possible in Belgium? Are all the necessary means and measures used to prevent such a tragedy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u17	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, first of all, I think we all have to offer our condolences to the victims and have a thought for the firefighters, who have given the best of themselves since then, because their work is still under way. Is a similar accident possible in our country – a fire in a building, in an apartment? Yeah, it's always possible. But we have, since the seventies, set standards for buildings over 25 metres high. These standards are contained in a law, which is adapted as things evolve in a society. The last amendment to this law was made at the end of last year. Yes, we're following things. What about inspection and control? We have a law, but is it inspected and controlled? I must admit that our fire services were organized for what is known as repression, namely firefighting. On the basis of this finding, we have decided to restructure the whole chain of safety from prevention to repression and evaluation into emergency areas. The gaps in prevention are the motivation for this reorganization of the relief zones implemented on 1 January 2015. The first results are under way. Yes, the emergency areas do more prevention than they did before. Is everything covered already? No. Honestly, I have to say that putting a new organization takes some time, but we are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u18	Thank you, Minister. Your words are reassuring. Indeed, one thing is to organize things, and to have a conception of how they should be, but another is to devote enough means to do it. On this point, I have the impression that the goal is not achieved. When I talk to firefighters in my area, I realize they're not satisfied. They have a staff problem, and this has an impact on people's safety. Close to my home, the staff of the fire station in La Louvière are in permanent union action. You know they can't strike. However, they constantly complain about the lack of resources at their disposal. This is not just happening in La Louvière. Several firefighters say I'm running out of money today. The danger often comes from old buildings, often from social housing, where the most disadvantaged people live. Firefighters tell us that if we wanted to inspect and control all these buildings, we would need twice as many personnel. I therefore have the impression that, for the time being, the measures are not sufficient. We will therefore come back to the matter, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u19	Mr President, Minister, the police must be able to do their job at all times in the best of circumstances, in order to be of maximum service to the population, especially in times of terror threats and other challenges. Unfortunately, we have to note that this is no longer possible in the police zone VLAS Kortrijk, Kuurne, Lendelede......................................................................................................................................................................................... One speaks of physical threat to intimidation. I certainly will not qualify these facts, that is neither my job nor the process. You understand, however, that the situation is very exceptional. It is very unusual for a large part of the corps to stand outside and turn their backs on the leaders. This is not sustainable and therefore a smooth police operation is no longer guaranteed. However, it is a well-functioning corps, which has achieved good results in the field at the service of its citizens. An important player in discipline is the mayor or, if not, the minister. For this reason, Minister, I would like to address the following questions. Will you launch a preliminary investigation by the General Inspection or the P Committee? What exactly is the scope of the assignment that has now been outsourced to the Governor of West Flanders? Doesn't it interfere with possible federal procedures by inspection services, especially if a complaint is lodged? Will there be sufficient room for dialogue and dialogue during the conciliation procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u20	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, thank you very much for this question of national interest, which is really in its place here, but any representative of the people is, of course, free to ask questions. Of course, I am aware of what has happened in the police area in question. Different procedures are possible to resolve this. One can have working conversations, one can work through the channel of trusted persons or one can work through an external mediation attempt. I understand that they have opted for an external mediation effort. The governor of West Flanders will take on this task. This seems to me to be the best way of trying to settle matters. If it turns out that this mediation effort is insufficient and that the problems in the corps persist, I will, of course, take responsibility as the custody minister. At first I give room for the mediation effort of the governor of West Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u21	Minister, if you give one local policeman expectations to identify terrorism-related issues, if you give one street corner worker of the OCMW expectations to support your terrorism plan, you would be aware that this too is a matter of national importance. Perhaps we have waited too long for the debate to take place in the municipal and police councils, which means that we must now even have this debate at the level of the Federal Parliament, but above all let us concentrate all our energies on action in the field, in a spirit of dialogue and with respect for all staff. We wish the governor every success in his mediation effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u22	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, today is a special day in terms of telecommunications since we are told that roaming is almost over! At a time when technology no longer knows borders and the use of smartphones, tablets and other digital products has become daily, it is regrettable that tariff barriers remain within Europe. For the MR, that's unacceptable. Indeed, for almost ten years, the question of the abolition of roaming costs within the countries of the European Union had been on the table. Belgium has been advocating this for a very long time. An agreement was finally reached on 1 January 2017 on wholesale prices between operators. This is the final step in eliminating these costs. However, it seems to me that the practical scope of this advance for consumers is not completely clear. I would point out that according to several press articles, some operators, such as VOO, will have derogations and will always be able to charge additional user fees. It also seems to be assumed that, since the use of the national package is extended in the EU countries at no additional cost, uncertainty persists, for example, as to the cost of international calls. I would also like to point out that Brexit could pose problems in relation to Britain. Moreover, since this decision concerns only the European Union, Switzerland is excluded from it despite the fact that it is an important partner. The positive impact on the bill of millions of consumers is undeniable and we can be pleased with it. This will be important not only for individuals but also for businesses, which will see the costs of digital applications reduced when travelling abroad, which will further stimulate the digital economy. Deputy Prime Minister, can you explain to me how the decision is to be implemented? What are the implications for Belgian consumers? What traps should they avoid? Is objective information about this implementation planned? If so, how? If there is always a loss of profits that may exist for some operators, it is obviously not desirable that there be compensation and that they increase their rates. Could other measures still be taken to lower the cost to the consumer? What are the next steps in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u23	Mr Burton, thank you for your question. I fully agree with you. This is an important moment for the European consumer because roaming charges are already disappearing in Europe today. This is called "Roam Like at Home", i.e. you can now use your phone in other countries exactly the same way as you are currently doing in Belgium. If you stay in your rate package, nothing changes. If you exceed your rate plan, you go to another pricing area, just as it happens in Belgium as well. This is an important step forward. This applies to the European Economic Area. It is therefore the Europe of the Twenty-eight, including the United Kingdom – for the time being – as well as Norway, Iceland and Lichtenstein. There are two additional rules. The first is what is called "reasonable use", i.e. use abroad cannot be greater than that in your country. The second is that some operators may request a derogation if they consider that the impact of the measure is greater than 3 % of their commercial margin. In Belgium, only one operator applied and obtained this exemption from the regulator (IBPT). It's about VOO. I find this exception regrettable for the consumer, but it nevertheless has an important power to compare. It may indeed turn to other operators who have not requested this derogation. Changing mobile operator is very simple. It does not require any effort. You keep your number and the administrative procedure is supported by the new operator. I have no doubt that Belgian consumers, aware of the telecommunications costs, will make the decision they consider best. As for international calls, there is no change at this time. A discussion is under way in the European Parliament on this subject. This question seems important to me. Indeed, it is not very logical that if you are in Germany and you call with your Belgian package to Belgium, the rate is that of our country, but that if a German calls you in Belgium, the rate is far higher. If a movement on a European scale were to emerge in this respect, Belgium would certainly support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answer. For MR, the consumer's interest must always be safeguarded. As you pointed out, there are still exceptions. Other derogations could still be requested – you never know. This means that there is still work to be done. In any case, we rely on the government and you yourself to carry it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u25	I understand Secretary Borsus is on his way to the Chamber. With any luck, he'll be on time, and I also understand that he'll answer. So we come to the questions to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u26	Mr President, Minister, Fouad Belkacem alias Abu Imran appears to be one of the nails to the coffin of the current government. You're not the prime minister dealing with the problem. There's another one in the back. In the past, Mrs Turtelboom, in her capacity as Minister of Justice, has also tried to take away the nationality of the person concerned or at least to initiate proceedings through the Antwerp appeal court. We have been working on this again since December 2016. However, due to circumstances, the person concerned has considered it useful to marry the woman with whom he already has three children. This time this would happen in Hasselt, after his marriage application had already been refused twice in the prison of Antwerp. The Home Secretary notes that she had already been refused three times. To my great wonder, his application is allowed, not only by the sp.a ships involved, which does not surprise me, since Mr Belkacem is an objective ally of the sp.a. However, the letter from Secretary of State Francken, which he wrote to the Hasselt District Court on 27 December 2016, is apparently ignored. In that letter, the relevant Secretary of State of your Government warns that a marriage might give the person concerned a residence advantage. That surprises me a little bit. Does the government speak out of one mouth in that file? Will the same interest be taken into consideration, namely the removal of the nationality of the person concerned, whom the Secretary of State rightly points out is the most important terrorist our country has ever known? Those are tough words. They're not mine, but they're here. If that is the case, the removal of nationality must be a priority. Nevertheless, the court in Hasselt does not give any unfavourable advice to allow the person concerned to marry. My questions to you are quite simple. First of all, how is that possible? You're responsible for justice. How is that possible? Secondly, what about the procedure at the appeal court which started in December 2016? We're six months later. If combating terrorism in relation to the main recruiter and recruiter of terrorists for IS is really a priority, the reduction of nationality must be a priority, which is not immediately apparent from the actions of this government. After all, one minister lets the muscle roll, while another minister just lets it roll.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u27	Mr Dewinter, the cancellation of Belgian nationality is governed by our Code of Belgian nationality. Let me be very clear: marriage has no influence whatsoever on whether or not to deprive Belgian nationality, contrary to what I have read in some media. The procedure for absolving Belgian nationality is pending before the Antwerp appeal court and was instituted on the basis of Article 23 (1) of the Belgian Code of Nationality. By law of 20 July 2015, the Government made terrorism a more widespread ground for the revocation of Belgian nationality. The only reservation we have to make is that if a person is declared to be of Belgian nationality because of, in this case, serious shortcomings in the obligations as a Belgian citizen, he would not become stateless. However, as I know, Mr Belkacem is also a Moroccan national and there is therefore no problem in that regard. As I indicated earlier in reply to oral questions, there are three judgments of the Brussels appeal court in which the court ruled the revocation on the basis of a conviction for terrorist activities inspired by religious extremism. There are no means of making a different judgment on this today. There's something else I want to tell you. When the post-Dutroux era was changed, the Chamber and the Senate made it very clear that the parish was independent. If you want a Minister of Justice to manage and supervise the courthouse... I'd always like to hear you say that I'm responsible for justice. I do not know if you would ever like to become Minister of Justice, Mr Dewinter, but that is a very great responsibility for justice. That's not true. Parliament has explicitly wanted the Minister of Justice not to be responsible for the public prosecutor. So I do not like what Mr Francken's letter would have been, so I would have liked to tell you that from now on I would be able to prevent or influence all the opinions of the public prosecutor, because that is clearly not true. I have also understood that this is not my competence, but occasionally a Minister of Justice may also say something about the competence of another minister. If the court of appeal decides to withdraw nationality, marriage does not deprive my colleague of the opportunity to designate the person in question if my colleague considers it necessary. So I don't like things getting mixed up. That cannot be the intention in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u28	Minister, while you say that you have nothing to do with justice, I would like to read a letter from Secretary of State Francken. He sent it to your Attorney General on December 27, 2016. You can follow on Twitter, because Mr Francken is very open in publishing letters of this kind: Mr King's Attorney, we can tell you the following after inspection of our files. In view of the Belgian nationality of the two parties, Mr Belkacem and his wife, Mr Belkacem, are not currently entitled to a residence benefit in connection with the completion of this proposed marriage. However, since Mr Belkacem was required to appear before the Antwerp appeal court on the revocation of his Belgian nationality, there could be in the future a residence advantage in the performance of that marriage if he is effectively taken away from Belgian nationality. I want to, but while you, the Minister of Justice, say that you have nothing to do with it and that the court is autonomous, and while you refer to the separation of powers, the Minister of the Interior says that fighting terrorism is our main priority. We need to get Belkacem out. Mr Francken says that he will take away his Belgian nationality, which he can do, because a residence permit can be taken by the State Secretary if public order is compromised. [[The speaker's phone rings.]] I think the Secretary of State is calling me to give some explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u29	And also to conclude, Mr Dewinter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know from what mouth this government is speaking. Are Mr Belkacem and the taking of his nationality a priority? Is it a priority to ensure that we finally get that man, who is eventually being prosecuted in Morocco and convicted of criminal offences, out of the country and take his nationality away, so that we are finally rid of this troublemaker and terrorist leader, or is that not a priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u31	You must decide, Mr Dewinter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u32	When I hear you, it's not a priority. When I hear the N-VA ministers, it's a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u33	Thank you, Mr Dewinter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u34	I'd like a clear answer, and maybe the Prime Minister should just answer what this government really wants with Belkacem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u35	Minister None will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u36	Mr President, Minister, in order to evaluate certain provisions of the Law of 26 December 2013 on the unitary status of workers and servants, social consultation has been under way for several months. More specifically, it concerns the adjustment of notice periods and the abolition of the trial period. You know that we at N-VA attach great importance to social dialogue...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u37	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u38	Mr Calvo, what's funny about that? Did I tell you a joke? The voice of the workplace in decision-making and policy-making is very important. We were therefore very hopeful when we were told on Monday evening that there would be a basic agreement on a number of hot issues. But that hope soon turned into frustration when we were allowed to read De Morgen this morning, and I am sure Mr Calvo will have read it as well: Unions are blowing up all the bridges. We very much regret that. Why? Because it is very important that minimum wages for young people be maintained because they are a very essential tool in the fight against poverty among young people, which is very social, Mr Calvo. The discussion on the abolition of the pilot period is also very important. Studies carried out by the NAR show that employers in their recruitment policies are beginning to be questionable in relation to contracts of indefinite duration and that they go back to temporary contracts and interim work. That's not good. I come to my specific question, Minister. What will the government do in the interests of the employer and in the interests of the employee in view of the social dialogue that has stalled? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u39	Minister None, thank you for filling in for a not common theme for you. Ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago we stood here in a blaze of collective consternation about what a Panoreportage had caused with regard to temporary work. I remember that in several statements it was argued that temporary work was all good and good, but that we ultimately wanted people to get a contract of indefinite duration as soon as possible, a fixed contract, a job with certainty. I was pleased that the social partners had reached a good agreement following on from last year's IPA. We thought that, together with a number of top people from the ABVV and the ACV and the employers. There was a fine agreement, saying that the probationary period would not be literally re-established, but that the construction of the notice period would be made even more gradual, so that we could be sure that employers gave young people opportunities and did not have to be afraid of a high cost if it was disappointing. That's a nice chord. Young people would also receive training, collective, consolidated, to get them on the labour market more quickly and not in precarious statutes. Unfortunately, with regard to this agreement which was carefully negotiated and on which it was thought that agreement was reached within the Group of Ten, we see that two trade unions turn to their supporters and do not get those people involved. This is very damaging for social dialogue, for confidence in it and for the confidence of all negotiators. Not only Theo Francken tweet, Kris Peeters also does that. We read that Kris Peeters says he will call on the social partners to see what he can do. Minister, what message will the government take with the social partners? For us, this is a good agreement, just like last year, which we supported. This is also a good agreement and we ask that it be respected. What approach will the government take with the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in implementation of the interprofessional agreement concluded by the social partners for 2017-2018, the NAR negotiated the re-establishment of the trial period, the notice periods and the minimum wages for young people. A proposal was drawn up between the social partners, but the preliminary agreement was not approved by the ACV and the ADVV. Mr Peeters, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, asks me to inform you that he regrets that no agreement has yet been reached on these important issues. This is certainly due to the fact that negotiations are currently underway in key sectors in order to reach a sectoral agreement. The social consultation works. It must be given the necessary time and space; this has been proven by the recent past on several occasions. Mr Peeters will continue to have full confidence in the social dialogue, and I shall, of course, be in contact with the various social partners in the coming days. A meeting of the Group of Ten is also planned at the end of June.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u41	Thank you very much, Minister, for this clear answer. Of course one has to give the social dialogue some time, but sometimes a push in the back can't hurt to get ahead. As you know, we have already tabled a legislative proposal around the trial period. As part of that push, we will re-enable that bill. After all, we had put it on hold for a while, with respect for the social dialogue. I'm curious to see what happens next.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for the answer you have given in the absence of your colleague Mr Peeters. We hope, of course, that this agreement will succeed. I fully understand that this is sensitive in some sectors. We have this harmonization of the status of workers and servants and the periods of notice. A balanced agreement must be reached on this. I hope, however, that the essence of the agreement that has been reached will remain. If we are looking at our labour market today, it is really on the verge of success. We have hundreds of thousands of new jobs and the Planning Agency is planning another hundred thousand in the next two years. However, in our labour market, we have a great deal of difficulty with groups of opportunity, young people, the elderly and people with a certain profile who belong to those groups of opportunity. If we make the threshold too high for access to the contract of indefinite duration, then those people will have even fewer opportunities. In the name of a social policy, it is therefore really necessary for this agreement to be reached. I hope you will be able to bring the news to your colleague that we urge him to do everything in his power to achieve this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u43	Minister, thank you for your release on this important subject. The secondment directive allows a European employee to be sent by his employer to another country in order to perform fixed-term service benefits. This special status also allows these employees to have social security coverage by paying social contributions in their country of origin, which has posed many problems for too long already. Over the years, this secondment directive has become a veritable accelerator of social dumping, a veritable accelerator of unfair competition between European companies. With more than 180,000 posted workers, Belgium is particularly affected. And it is our SMEs, our artisans, our independents who are the first victims of the drifts of this system. Thousands of jobs are therefore at risk, particularly in the construction sector, which is the first to be affected. The situation is therefore completely unacceptable, and your government must make it a political priority, must bring it to the European level in order to make it a priority with the European partners. Good news! There's a momentum! Indeed, the new French President has declared that he wants to reform this directive in depth and bring this matter with his European partners. Bad news! The press tells us this morning that Belgium is not following the movement, that Belgium is reluctant to follow French voluntarism! But why, Minister, do you not take the measure of this problem, which seriously hampers the creation of sustainable jobs anchored in us by our small and medium-sized enterprises? In concrete terms, what is your government's position on this secondment directive and what message are you going to bring to the European level? What are the reforms that you are making with regard to this secondment directive and what does the Belgian Government want to achieve as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u44	Mr Vanden Burre, thank you for your question. I would be happy to reply on behalf of my colleague, Mr Kris Peeters, who is responsible for this matter, who sits in the European Councils which deal with these issues in particular. First of all, I would like to reassure you, but there is no doubt in this House that we are completely involved in the fight against social dumping and the fight against unequal competition rules, the government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Employment and myself and other colleagues. Secondly, as regards the Belgian position with regard to the revision of this secondment directive 96/71, the Belgian Government has been at the offensive with a number of proposals to include in the guaranteed remuneration a number of complementary elements in order to bring together, which is our objective, "equal work, equal pay" with the aim of restoring fair competition. A number of our demands were accepted in the agreement put on the table by the Maltese Presidency. We obviously support the possibility of going further. We support the possibility of revising this directive further. However, revising a directive at European level requires a majority at European level. You can, we can, at this table in this Parliament, set the ideal of the future European directive, but we must also convince and bring together a two-thirds majority. We have supported and will continue to support the most determined and resolute steps, the French initiative of course, but by saying: "Let us first pick today the compromise that is possible, the one that is on the table and let us mobilize for further steps!" For you are also aware that the next Estonian or Bulgarian Presidency will take place in a difficult context to acquire and extract a number of acquis in this area. I would like to be very clear: the determination, the strategic determination, the support for the French position, the reforms of this directive are and remain an absolute objective of this government not only to translate this text into a new directive but above all to translate its results, ladies and gentlemen, into our Belgian labour market. I conclude by saying that this is not even the end of the fight, because the amendment of the directive, Mr Vanden Burre, has yet to be ratified in each country. This will project us as soon as possible in 2020 probably. In short, we have chosen to fight alongside France, but we have already picked the changes that have taken place. We're continuing the fight. Have no doubt about it! Of course, we can feed ideological disputes, but in the common fight against social dumping, we are in this Parliament – at least, I hope! – all on the same wavelength. Please, Mr. Vanden Burre!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. I did not expect any less from you, because I knew that you would come here to address the concerns of our artisans, SMEs and self-employed. So I had no doubt about your involvement, but it was important for you to be here to answer parliamentary questions. On the substance, yes, I know that Belgium alone cannot undertake anything at European level. I am not unaware of the presidencies that will follow. Having said that, I also know one other thing: voluntarism and ambition are necessary. That is what I asked you in my question, because I was disappointed when I read the last comments that appeared this morning, from which I had taken a feeling of lack of voluntarism. For us ecologists, there is no doubt that a principle has always guided us: equal pay for equal work! It's obvious. The fight against social dumping is a priority for us. We have shown this in the discussions on SMEs' access to public procurement. Be sure that in these battles you can count on our support! Above all, we will always be there to urge you to go further and show even more voluntarism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, for months my group has been fighting for the next day's pill to be legally delivered by family planning centres, even in the absence of a doctor. This is a reality on the ground: doctors are not present at all times. Unfortunately, you opposed it from the start. It is therefore unsurprising that last week our bill and that of Ecolo-Groen were rejected by the majority in plenary session. In fact, you were not present during the debates, which we regret because you had not already been very involved in the committee. Following your decision, the challenge has continued to grow, first in the various parliaments, then in the press and on social networks. From now on, she's on the street. That's why I'm going back to the subject. Minister, you justify your opposition by saying that you want to ensure a safer framework for patients. Do you really think that a patient in distress and emergency situations, who buys the next day's pill on the internet, is in a safer environment than if she turns to the staff of a family planning centre that, if not medical, is at least trained - social workers and psychologists? Is it because the situation and the needs in Flanders are different that you do not want to take into account the realities on the ground in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation? Indeed, it is a real problem on the ground. The four family planning federations agree on this and were demonstrating this morning. The demonstrators went to your office, but you were unable to receive them. They left you a mail. I hope you can hear their arguments and talk to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, I have taken note of the motion adopted yesterday by the Wallonia Parliament and I note that he calls on the Walloon government, among other things, to support the planning centres in the distribution of emergency contraceptives, even in the absence of a doctor, through a procedure adapted to emergency situations in a framework "defined in consultation with all stakeholders in the sector, specifically planning, doctors, nurses and pharmacists". I can tell you that the two bills discussed in the Public Health Committee did not meet these conditions. With regard to the procedure proposed by Minister Prévot, it was pointed out that a meeting with the federations of family planning centres would be organised and that a partnership with pharmacists' unions would be envisaged. As I have already said, the organization of family planning falls within the competence of Minister Prévot. I am always prepared to agree on this, with a view to ensuring the quality and accessibility of patient care and, I repeat, in a safe environment for patients, which implies good guarantees, as provided by law. Mrs Winckel, this is not my opinion; the law is the same for all Belgians, whether in Flanders or Wallonia. This is the Act on the Exercise of Health Care Professions. I will continue to stress that the delivery of medicines must be carried out by a professional, responsible and competent and not by an institution. This is essential for the quality of care, and it is precisely what is required to allow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u48	Mr President, I thank the minister for her answer, which I am sorry for, is not one of them. The delivery of this pill the next day is not a Walloon or regional competence, it depends on the federal and this is where we can act. It must be a choice. When you talk about safe settings, if this pill of the next day is available on a website, without medical consultation, I do not understand why you insist on refusing that these centres can deliver it to women who are in distress or emergency situations. I believe that the release of this medicine represents a right for women to have their bodies available; it would also reduce unwanted pregnancies and the number of abortions. I hope that this is not once again a Community problem because only the French-speaking part of the country is concerned by this problem, which I regret. I am therefore speaking to my colleagues in the MR who, I hope, will be able to make themselves heard and make the voice of Francophones heard in the face of this problem. Minister, I also hope that you will have the respect to meet with the Francophone family planning centres in order to dialogue with them and finally to know this reality on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u49	Madam Minister, the block period is over in the French Community. The first-year medical students are busy with their exams. They are graduating in 2022, although they do not yet have any certainty, as the quotas for 2022 are not yet fixed. Another question is what about the admission test. You prefer to transfer that hot potato to the French Community, but the French Community and the students say that if there are no quotas, there is no admission test either. The quotas are your responsibility. What if there's no admissions test? We are in the finals in June, so organizing an admission test seems virtually impossible to me. If we don't get those quotas, did Marcourt get cocked? Then what is the result of the agreement you have concluded, or will you give him the chance of a second seat? There is another problem, namely the reduction of the historical surplus. In 2022 there are no quotas. So I'm assuming there can be no surplus. Does that mean that in 2022 there will be a general amnesty for the French-speaking medical students, or how will you calculate the surplus for the year 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u50	Mrs Wouters, I have the same question for the umpteenth time. You can ask that question every week, but I won't change my mind every week. I have already said more than once, and you are well aware of this: the Council of State, in its opinion on the draft royal decree, stated that the regulation could no longer be proclaimed in good time. Therefore, no royal decision was taken to determine the doctors' quotas for 2022. Nor does the law impose an obligation to set quotas, but offers the possibility of doing so. Out of respect for the principles of trust and legal certainty, the government has decided not to go into the Council's suggestion that quotas should be laid down by law, because if it was too late for a royal decision, it would certainly be too late for a law. I would point out that the Planning Committee has taken into account the real number of students in the first year of basic training in the simulations to determine quotas for 2023. You may have missed it, but in the French-speaking press last week the call for the competition in September appeared. In that respect, therefore, Minister Marcourt is honouring his word. If he does, that's what needs to be said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I can only say that the French-speaking students who will be graduating in 2022 apparently do not have to take an exam, whereas the Dutch-speaking students will have to do so. We know that. There were no quotas for 2022, but we know the Flemings. The Flemings are good and stick to it. The problem will therefore remain before 2022. You have not answered what you are doing with the surplus for 2022? How will you apply the negative list for 2022, if there are no quotas? Then you give me amnesty. There is the phasing-out of the surplus to 2038. It is, of course, a nice gift that suddenly the surplus did not turn out to be 3 000, but 1 531. That is your credit, Madam Secretary. Now what? The conclusion will be that once again the Flemings pay the price. That's what we're used to from the Flemings. Flemings always pay the bill of Belgian historical compromises.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u52	The Minister for Pensions will give the answer on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u53	Mr President, Minister, Turkey is no longer a rule of law. The country is increasingly evolving from democracy to autocracy, under President Erdogan. And there's a witch hunt going on against everyone who's critical of Erdogan. The youngest victim is Taner Kiliç, President of Amnesty International in Turkey. He was arrested along with 22 other lawyers and formally charged with membership of a terrorist organization. The brutality of such purification operations is truly unseen. Colleagues, we all know Amnesty International. It's a world-famous NGO, highly respected internationally. Amnesty International is defending the values on which we are so proud, such as democracy, freedom of the press, human rights and so on. So, if Amnesty International is attacked in Turkey, we must defend Amnesty International. If such a person can be arrested, Minister, then Erdogan is actually putting himself at Putin's level. If the president of the world's largest human rights organisation can be imprisoned for no reason, then all local anonymous human rights defenders in Turkey have a lot to fear. Political pressure is therefore needed. The international community is fully committed to this. It is remarkable that our country remains silent to this day. We do not hear from Minister Reynders about the arrest of Taner Kiliç. I would ask the government to bring that arrest to the Turkish ambassador in our country. In addition, on 19 June there will be a Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union and this can also be raised there. So don't close your eyes. Silence is not an option here. We must move forward. It is up to us, including Belgium, to fully defend an organization such as Amnesty International.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u54	Mr President, this is Minister Reynder's reply. I share your deep concern about the arrest and accusations by the President of Amnesty International Turkey, Mr Taner Kiliç, on the basis of allegations of ties with the Gülen movement. The detention of Mr Kiliç, as well as the detention of dozens of journalists since the state of emergency, illustrates the erosion of the rule of law in Turkey and the deterioration of the human rights situation, the victims of which are mainly members of civil society and human rights defenders. Immediately after Mr Kiliç's arrest, I retweeted the EU High Representative's press release, Mrs Mogherini, on 8 June. On Monday 12 June, most of the Belgian intervention was devoted to Turkey during the interactive dialogue with the special rapporteur for freedom of expression in the Human Rights Council. This special rapporteur proposed the report of his visit to Turkey. On this occasion, we made three strong demands in particular, namely the end of the state of emergency in order to ensure once again the full enjoyment of fundamental rights and freedoms, the release of all persons detained because they have exercised their right to freedom of expression, and the establishment of a truly impartial and efficient appeal mechanism to deal with the complaints of tens of thousands of dismissed officials. These are strong messages from Belgium in the framework of the UN, but also earlier, during discussions at Council of Europe level. I will bring the same messages to the Foreign Affairs Council during the debate on Monday 19 June, where the ministers will discuss the detention of the President of Amnesty International Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u55	Minister, I thank you for the last commitment you made that the European Council of Ministers on 19 June could be used, but a public condemnation is absolutely necessary here. I would ask you to ask for a meeting with the Turkish ambassador in our country to clearly condemn that arrest. Be quick, members of the government, because there is currently an appeal against the arrest of the relevant President of Amnesty International. So the case is pending. More political pressure can really help. Other countries have also expressed their views to a large extent. The fundamental question I would like to put to the government is to what extent we can still do business with Turkey as if nothing is going on. We have a refugee deal with Turkey, which makes us dependent on Erdogan. That was decided by your government. For Ecolo-Green there can be no question of Turkey joining the European Union. The Belgian Government must be clear about this. Moreover, it is time to realise that Turkey is much more dependent on the European Union than on the other hand. I have said it a few times: 44% of Turkish exports go to Europe. We have a leverage to achieve greater respect for democracy and the rule of law in Turkey, albeit in a realistic way. I hope that the Belgian Government will not remain silent, but will actively use these levers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u56	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the First World War, our country has played a leading role in all negotiations for a global treaty on disarmament. Mr Minister, the slogan on the Iron Tower 'Never More War', which all governments, of any colour or composition, have always held high. The global ban on chemical weapons, landmines and cluster mines, the Non-Proliferation Treaty: every time, Belgian diplomacy was at the forefront of the fight for the creation of these treaties. It's a sad day today. The current government breaks with a hundred-year-old tradition. In New York, 130 countries are meeting in order to achieve a global ban on nuclear weapons. The Red Cross has called on everyone, given the catastrophic humanitarian consequences of the deployment of nuclear weapons. Even Pope Francis calls on all the politicians in the world to negotiate. Nobel Peace Prize winners call on governments to quickly ban nuclear weapons. My question to you, Minister, is as follows. Why is Belgium not present at the start of these negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u57	Mr van der Maelen, I would suspect that you, who have been following the dossier for a very long time and with great passion, are trying to bring it to your attention, on the basis of history, which you yourself have cited, would know that as Minister of Defence I am not competent. That is why the question has been addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for our international policy in this area. It is not the Secretary of Defense, who gives instructions to negotiators at the UN. I shall therefore read out the answer prepared by Minister Reynders, who is responsible for the matter. As Secretary of Defense, I fully support that answer: "Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have had the opportunity on several occasions to answer your questions on this particular subject. For the rest, I refer you to my previous answers. Belgium's policy fits into long-term definitions, continuity and consistency. That is why the government decided to vote against the resolution at the General Assembly in December 2016 and not to participate in the negotiations of a treaty banning unilateral nuclear weapons in 2017, simply because we believe that that parallel process will not bring concrete progress in the field of nuclear disarmament, because none of the countries that have nuclear weapons in their arsenal intends to participate in that conference." That last sentence is in red on my paper; it is the essence of the whole decision. It is not always the quantity that counts, Mr van der Maelen, but also the quality. I continue to read: 'If the people who ultimately take the decision cannot be brought to the table, it is difficult to negotiate on this. Belgium shares the ambition," I also do so "to live in a world free of nuclear weapons, but we are trying to achieve this in the most efficient, safe and verifiable way, without using detours that could jeopardise the Non-Proliferation Treaty. After all, this treaty is the cornerstone of our policy. We intend to remain in line with our commitments to security and collective defence within the North Atlantic Treaty."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u58	Minister, the Government's answer is not worth a reply from me. I address myself to the Flemish parties that are sitting here. In April 2015, in the Flemish Parliament, you unanimously approved a call to the federal government to work for a nuclear-free world. Colleagues of the N-VA, I read to you what the Prime Minister said in the discussion of that resolution: 'I am in favour, in line with the resolution, of a global ban on nuclear weapons'. Colleagues of the N-VA, CD&V and Open Vld, stop your hypocrisy in the Flemish Parliament. Follow your colleagues' calls. I'll help you. I will read to you what is in the government agreement of your own government. Your own government says that it continues to work for international initiatives aimed at banning weapons systems with an arbitrary reach and an excessive impact on citizens. Your credibility is at stake. Do you follow what you approve in the Flemish Parliament? Do you carry out what is in your own coalition agreement? That's what the people will take care of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u59	The Minister for the Budget will reply on behalf of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall not be talking about decibels but about figures. Making growth, jobs and work pay again: that is what the current government is doing and what is increasingly being confirmed by more and more national and international economic organisations, such as the National Bank of Belgium this week. The National Bank of Belgium therefore joined a wide range of organisations, such as the European Commission, the IMF and the OECD. Each of them assumes greater economic growth in Belgium. What these institutions all agree on is the praise for the reforms that have been carried out. Last week, the OECD explicitly praised the EUR 8 billion tax shift and the first real tax reduction on labour. Put flexibility in the labour market on top of that, and we come up with a true engine of job creation. This week, the National Bank of Belgium talked about more than 200 000 net additional jobs, especially in the private sector, as well as a record in terms of employment rates. That is a good result for the current government. More jobs and a lower tax burden also mean more purchasing power. According to the National Bank of Belgium, it is not less than 6% of extra disposable income and additional budget that people can spend together. This is on top of inflation and on top of the price increases, which we are all aware of. It is just that extra purchasing power and that extra disposable income which, according to the National Bank of Belgium, will soon be the driving force for additional economic growth as a result of increased domestic consumption. Madam Secretary, unfortunately there are no roses without thorns. If a government explicitly chooses not to be in the pockets of the people, but rather to be in favour of cuts in charges, it will pass on the short-term challenges to the budget. The National Bank of Belgium mentions an amount of EUR 8 billion as the amount that will be needed to balance our budget by 2019, which is a point to which we have all committed ourselves. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions for you. Does the amount of EUR 8 billion take into account all the reforms that we have already undertaken during the current legislature? Can you reaffirm our commitment to balance the budget by 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u61	Mr Dedecker, the government is always working on two axes at the same time: the fiscal restructuring and the recovery of our economy. The ultimate aim of course remains to guarantee our social model in the long term. You're talking about the National Bank's report. It confirmed the positive impact of the government's work. In addition to the 100 000 jobs created between 2015 and 2016, the National Bank believes that 115 000 jobs will be created by 2019. The year 2016 was, according to the governor of the National Bank, a grand cru in job creation and we can only conclude that this continues. The National Bank also makes its own forecast of the future nominal balance. According to her, the nominal deficit will be 2.1 % in 2019. So the figure of 8 billion comes from that prospect. I must repeat that these are not just forecasts, but that they concern the whole of Belgium and not just the federal level. Moreover, they are the result of another prediction model, which does not take into account all the measures taken by the government. Like the European Commission, the National Bank has a very cautious approach. As a reminder, the National Bank predicted in December last year that Belgium would have a deficit of 3% in 2016, while we ended the year with a deficit of 2.6 %. You can see that a month has made a big difference. In conclusion, in 2017, the government will have halved the nominal deficit by the end of 2014, from 3.1 % to 1.57 %. This is certainly an important step in the right direction, but we must remain attentive and continue to work on measures to ensure budgetary recovery with a view to achieving a budget balance in 2019, without weakening the recovery of the economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As you say, it is indeed a rather conservative estimate by both the National Bank and the European Commission. A conservative estimate is, of course, never bad, better a little too careful than a little too broad. The challenges are indeed there, and we must not underestimate them. We can see that ageing costs are hitting the surface. Let me give you an example. The cost of pensions alone has increased by EUR 8 billion over the last five years, not by giving people so much more pensions but simply by adding so many pensioners. The responsibility and negligence of previous governments to control these ageing costs is crushing and immense. On the other hand, it is this government that, as you said, has cut the cost of ageing by half and keeps costs for future generations. It ensures that pensions remain affordable and that there will be a further pension in the future. All those who have run this country for the past 25 years and now ask where people's money has gone can get a very simple answer. It has gone to additional pensions and to a reduction in charges. Where that money hasn't been in the past few years, it was in the silver fund. Further reform, control of expenditure and reduce costs for future generations is the message. That's what this government does.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u63	Mr President, Minister, my question is simple. What happened again this morning, just before 5:00, according to our information, at Zaventem airport? What were the circumstances of this major power failure? Why did it take so long to inform passengers? According to my information, it took almost three hours for the airport, on the website and on Twitter, to inform passengers of this breakdown. If my accounts are good, we're in the fifth power outage in two years that affects the passengers at the airport. Why? We remember the three breakdowns that occurred in Belgocontrol. We remember the major breakdown in May 2015. There was also a breakdown at the airport in June 2016, another in September 2016, a breakdown, a few days ago, again in Belgocontrol, which also affected, but less substantially, passenger transport. Why are these repeated breakdowns? Is it acceptable for the country's main airport to experience so many power failures affecting passenger transport? It is, as we know, the image of the airport, but also that of the country. The country's economic activities are affected through these repeated breakdowns. This is all the less acceptable as a year ago, a major breakdown had already taken place. It seemed to me that measures had been taken on that occasion. Minister, once again, what exactly happened? Why has the past not been sufficiently taken into account and lessons learned? Why are we still experiencing these repeated breakdowns? What steps do you intend to take to end this type of incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u64	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last year and also this year I asked questions about previous failures, which Mr Dallemagne has just mentioned. You have replied to these questions, and I have the text of your answers to say that a breakdown is actually very exceptional. After the latest breakdown, you stated that a thorough technical evaluation had been carried out and that an action plan with immediate improvements could be drawn up in order to avoid repetition. Together with my fellow Members, and above all with the passengers who were stranded at the airport this morning and knew nothing about it, we can see that these measures were probably not enough or we can ask whether the measures announced have been effectively implemented. Minister, have all the measures you have announced been implemented? What investments have actually been made and what investment costs have been made? How is it possible in 2017 that there is so bad communication with the passengers at the airport, who stood there this morning and didn't know anything at all?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u65	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as my two colleagues have pointed out, there was a breakdown last year, but there was mainly a breakdown the year before, which resulted in the closure of our airspace. This morning, of course, was not the case. Luckily! In the event of a power outage, Minister, the first concern is safety: the safety of our airspace, passengers and workers. On this point, can you tell us whether this breakdown has affected airport security? I am thinking, among other things, of access controls, video surveillance and baggage control. It's obviously important. Could you give us the cause of these disturbances? As has been recalled, this is not the first failure. Is this a human error or a technical problem? Are you able to rule out the act of malice? Finally, as Mr Dallemagne said, the passengers were the first victims of this power outage and are absolutely not responsible for it. They have the right to have clear explanations. For my part, I believe that they should also be compensated. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u66	Minister, in May 2015, I read a newspaper article: "Stream Panne Belgocontrol hits 25 000 passengers at Brussels Airport'. Last year there was a similar article: "Defect high-voltage cab" caused power failure in Brussels Airport. This morning between 4 a.m. and 6 a.m. 30 there was another power surge, leaving thousands of passengers outside and the entire airport flat. The travelers outside didn't know what was going on. They didn't know where to go. The annual power cuts are not good for the image of the airport. This creates little confidence for the upcoming holiday and the exodus via the airport. Minister, you are responsible for safety and control at Belgian airports. A power failure has a direct impact on control and security within the airport as well as around the airport. Communication is crucial at that time. That communication didn't go very well this morning. I think a megaphone this morning would have worked better than all the messages on Twitter and Facebook. Mr. Secretary, have there been any lessons learned from last year's power surge? Did this morning's power outage have an impact on security inside and outside the airport? Will you be sitting with Brussels Airport Company in the short term to see how continuity of service can be made possible in such situations and how communication can be improved? Will passengers who have suffered damage be entitled to compensation or reimbursement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to stress that Brussels Airport Company is a private company. The federal government is only shareholder of the airport. As Minister for Mobility, I am not responsible for Brussels Airport. I've requested information from Brussels Airport. There was a power outage in a major electrical cabin at the terminal due to a technical problem with a high voltage cell. The emergency supply systems to the airport's critical system worked well and immediately, but the baggage system did not restart as planned. As a result, electricity was quickly restored for the emergency and safety facilities, which were immediately operational, but some equipment seems to have experienced a concern for restarting. The incident resulted in two and a half hours of manual handling of luggage. Brussels Airport has started an investigation into the causes, which are not yet known, but this incident is quite different in nature from the previous ones. There was no question of evacuation, as operations resumed rapidly. It was the police authorities that kept passengers out of the terminal waiting, the time to resume the activities of passenger registration, to avoid their discomfort and to verify the gross nature of the incident and the causes of the explosion of the high voltage part of the high voltage cabin. Brussels Airport partners were immediately informed through the channels provided for this, but there was no direct communication from LAC to users. There was direct communication from LAC to the companies. The airport coordination centre was opened with the main partners and the necessary operational actions were taken immediately. Security and emergency services immediately visited the area to assist passengers, for example, in the provision of water or to assist those who were less able to do so. Brussels Airport underlines that the safety of passengers and operations was never compromised. Belgocontrol has limited, on request from the airport, the capacity compared to the reduction of the flow. The few Belgocontrol equipments that were powered by the same source were immediately powered by their emergency generators. For the possible compensation of travellers, I refer you to the European Union regulations transposed into Belgian law. Travellers must therefore apply directly to the companies that will verify whether or not they are entitled to do so, depending on the origin of the incident. LAC immediately informed the companies, as I told you, but probably it will be necessary for the information – especially since modern tools such as Twitter, Facebook and others are now available – to be made directly to the general public when an incident occurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answer. I find that you largely minimize this incident by believing that there was ultimately only a breakdown in the baggage. What we have seen are passengers who have been denied access to the terminal, especially for reasons of air conditioning and congestion. They were left there for hours without information and assistance. You just confirmed in your answer that there was no information from the airport. That's deplorable. This is not the first time that the airport communicates poorly, but beyond the problem of communication, these repeated technical problems, whether at the airport or in Belgocontrol, are absolutely regrettable and unacceptable. I'm actually waiting for you to shed some light on this incident. You did not respond to the actions taken in response to previous incidents. It is unacceptable that the airport in the capital is at this point of failure. It's not the first time there's been any neglect. It was seen in terms of relief and assistance during the terrorist attacks. Moreover, the government is introducing a bill to force the airport to be much more diligent in terms of security. I think that, in technical terms, it is also necessary for the government to check whether this airport is properly equipped.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm still a little hungry. You say Brussels Airport Company is a private company. On the other hand, I note that we, as the main shareholder, can make a number of demands. All passengers pay an additional tax per flight to make investments in safety, but also in electricity cabins to cope with calamities such as these. It bothers me that this is actually being minimized. If, within a few weeks, ordinary workers take a syndical action because of a shortage of people to carry luggage, then murder and fire are shouted here. When it comes to the company that may have failed to make the necessary investments, a question to which you have not replied is actually covered by the cloak of love.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u70	Minister, it is indeed a company, but the state is the main shareholder. The responsibility of a Minister of Mobility is nevertheless to guarantee mobility everywhere, regardless of the means of transport. A response to this incident is absolutely necessary. Measures must be taken to avoid others; for three in two years, it is too much for the image of our country and of the airport. Therefore, we must move forward. As you have indicated, and we have seen for other transport companies, it is important to warn users. It is good to warn the companies, but they are on the tarmac and are therefore the first to be informed. It is not acceptable for travellers to remain deprived of information for hours. This message should therefore be sent to the airport. It's a necessity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u71	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your clear answer. The airport is the second economic engine of our country and security inside and outside the airport buildings is primordial. I really think there is an opportunity to sit together with Brussels Airport Company and other partners, such as Eandis, Elia and the security services, and to draw up a plan to deal with such disasters. As an engineer, I can confirm that there are solutions to such matters. After all, we have been flying in space for 50 years and there is a cart on Mars today, so I think that the technical problems can easily be solved, so that in future our passengers will no longer be impacted by a small technical defect with major consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u72	Mr President, Minister, you may have read, in The Last Hour of this morning, the double page devoted to the state of railway lines in our country. These articles focused on the number of breakdowns, daily delays, train deletions, etc. As we know, rolling stock is old and has a high rate of unavailability, one of the highest in Europe. The infrastructure is aging. The lack of maintenance and renewal is obvious, especially in Wallonia. We are already concerned about the consequences this will have on the implementation of the transport plan. We are still awaiting approval of the Multi-Year Investment Plan (MIP) and the Management Contract. These two texts will have to show a clear political will and restore the ambition for the Belgian rail. Minister, when are you going to approve the management contract and the IPP? Will you give the SNCB Group the means to fulfil its tasks in an ambitious way?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u73	Dear colleague, your question follows the press of the day, which relays and reproduces practically as I have said to our colleague, Mr. Van Biesen. This at least gives the feeling that the time invested in answering the 2,500 questions I have received since I was in charge is useful for something. The question is interesting because it highlights the problem of the means used to maintain the rail. Indeed, as with Brussels tunnels and Walloon motorways, large infrastructures of course require important means for their maintenance. Have we done enough in the past? I'll leave it to you to answer it. I can confirm, in any case, that the rail has not deteriorated suddenly since October 2014. For my part, I'm trying to prepare for the future. That's how I set aside the construction of new Pharaohic stations. I believe that these resources would have been more usefully spent on maintaining and developing rail. I have also called for efforts to be made to reduce peripheral expenditure in the SNCB Group in order to allocate resources and create real added value in terms of mobility for travellers. With this in mind, I have indicated that priorities should focus on security and capacity maintenance. For example, on March 31, the government asked Infrabel to review its 2017 investment budget and its IPP project, in order to avoid the emergence of slowing areas. I am pleased to announce that the necessary amendments were approved by Infrabel's Board of Directors on May 30th. Finally, in the management contract for Infrabel which is still under discussion, the infrastructure manager will be asked to draw up an annual assessment of the health of the railway infrastructure, as in Swiss practice. I can reassure you: safety is not the victim of a few savings whatsoever. The rail of tomorrow will certainly be strengthened by the current situation and the billion investments, complementary to the 7.5 billion already planned by Infrabel, will certainly help to improve the quality of the rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u74	Minister, I can hear all the positive elements that you give us through your answer. We have still not received a date for the IPP plans and the management contract. We have been hearing this type of response for a week. Indeed, the press has relayed answers to certain parliamentary questions, but we could come every week with questions, so much the news is also echoing the problems of the rail industry. I will end with a play of words: I don't see the light yet at the end of the tunnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u75	Secretary of State, the press today mentioned the fact that you had already flown 21 special flights this year. The increase in the number of repatriations since 2014 demonstrates the government's determination to develop an effective return policy. In this context, the repatriation of illegal detainees to their countries of origin is your priority. The numbers speak for themselves. In 2014, 625 criminals incarcerated and illegally staying were returned to their country of origin. In 2015, this figure doubled. We reach 1,437 people. In 2016, 1,600 illegal residents were expelled. These figures are all the more impressive since only 378 people had been dismissed in 2012. In total, in 2016, 10,907 foreigners were returned to their country of origin, a significant increase. Our country must continue to develop a firm but humane migration policy: a welcoming country that meets its international obligations but where abuses are not tolerated and therefore punished. Secretary of State, can you give us an initial assessment of the evolution of the returns of illegal offenders since the beginning of this year? Are new initiatives envisaged to increase the number of joint special flights with Frontex? What is the status of the policy of concluding readmission agreements? Will new agreements soon be signed? What is the situation at European level? At the 14 May Council of Ministers on security, it was decided to increase the number of places in closed centres with a view to increasing returns. Can you tell me the evolution of the number of places in closed centres? What will be the phase of this plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u76	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, the return of those who have been ordered to leave the territory remains a major challenge for our government. The job is far from over, but we've made great strides. Between January and May, we repatriated 634 illegal criminals, which is already more than the 2014 total. By prioritizing the removal of criminals, we are helping to reduce the prison population and crime. To ensure an effective return, we are maximizing European cooperation. We have increased the number of special flights from one per month in 2013 to two per month in 2015, up to almost one per week this year. The European Union pays the bill for these flights. As far as bilateral agreements are concerned, we are also moving forward. I have already signed bilateral agreements with Nigeria, Morocco, Somalia, Cameroon and Iraq. I have the full support of the Prime Minister and Minister Reynders to conclude more agreements over the coming months and years, particularly with priority countries such as Algeria and Tunisia. There is still an important question of the capacity of closed centres. When I took office, I had to work with a capacity of just 430 places. Now I have 630 places in closed centres. But the mayors, the police and the specialists in this field know that we need more. So I am very pleased that our government decided to approve the Masterplan Centres closed four weeks ago. By 2019, the capacity in closed centres will be 1,066 places. This will allow us to double forced returns, which is necessary to discourage illegal residence and to encourage voluntary returns. I wish to be clear and frank. An order to leave the territory is more than a paper. It is a legal decision of the government that must be followed, voluntarily if possible or by the force exercised by the State if necessary. Ensuring the implementation of this decision is a matter of credibility for our rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u77	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the clear and precise answers you have given me. The figures are encouraging. Masterplan's here. The decisions of this government and your initiatives are really moving in the right direction. This policy must be human but firm and we must continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u78	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, a month or two ago we asked questions about the recognition of new and existing mosques, following the ongoing discussion on this subject. There were problems at the Flemish level, in the sense that your colleague, N-VA Minister Homans, did not want to go into recognition because she was waiting for new analyses. Apparently, we have to wait for Flemish state security to know what's going on with these mosques. In the meantime, I have established that a number of very well-functioning associations are waiting for recognition. Hopefully those files will speed up. Apparently, there's a new problem. I refer to an article from one of the better newspapers in the country, of course The Importance of Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u79	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u80	If you say that, Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to take it quietly and certainly not deny it. The interest of Limburg indicates that there would now be problems with the visas of imams that do belong to recognized mosques. This would at present give rise to problems for at least three recognized mosques in Limburg, which at present have a endorsed but not a visa-approved imam at their disposal, which means seeking all kinds of other solutions, which I believe are less good, including in terms of safety and control. Mr. Secretary, what about that? Why have the visas in question been delivered or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u81	Mr President, Mr Terwingen, I am glad to be able to give some clarity. This is an important and sensitive issue. The worship and organisation of the worship must be done correctly for a Muslim or for someone with another faith and properly addressed by the government. So I agree with your concerns. I was surprised myself when I read the news in the paper this morning. It is obvious that it is not my intention that certain recognized mosques should fall without imam. I had it sorted out today and discussed with my administration. I'm playing the game against the recognized mosques correctly. That is very important and that is also the signal you want to send today to the people of Limburg and elsewhere. Opposite recognized mosques we play the game correctly. If the applications are submitted in full and correctly, if the mosque is recognised and if the security screening of the imam does not give rise to significant elements, the long-stay visa shall be granted. Together with the Minister Geens service, we greatly increased the screening of the imams in March 2015. We're doing the screening, which goes well. If the case for recognized mosques is in order, I'll issue a visa. I did get my light up in my paperwork right away, and what did it turn out to be? Neither in 2016, nor in 2017 have we received any visa application for a long stay from Turkish imams. Since no applications were submitted from Turkey, I cannot, of course, approve any of them. In 2016 I approved four visa applications for imams of recognized mosques, but those were applications from 2015. After all, it takes some time to check them out. I am therefore acting correctly, but I note with you that no new applications have been received since then. The applications I approved in 2016 were for Limburg. This is certainly interesting for the most important newspaper in Limburg. I have approved two applications, one concerning the Fatihmoskee in Genk and the other concerning the Fatihmoskee in Beringen. I also refused three for Limburg, especially for Hasselt, Bilzen and Maasmechelen, your city. With regard to the three Turkish mosques without imam, the problem lies, on the one hand, with Turkey, which apparently does not offer candidates who want to become imam permanently in Belgium, and, on the other hand, with the mosques themselves, which apparently do not seek imams from their own community or from other Muslim communities in Belgium. As far as the Fatihmoskee is concerned, I would like to conclude by saying that in 2016 the imam went to another mosque on its own initiative, without his follow-up being arranged. I can only establish that with you and with many others. More fundamentally, the question arises as to why Muslims living in Belgium still wish to import imams from their home country. The absence of recognized imam training in Belgium plays an important role in this. Only in this way can mosques attract an imam who knows the national language and, more importantly, who knows and respects the country's long-established values. However, this is a Community matter for which the federal government is not competent. Finally, I would like to confirm once again that we will refuse any application for imams who wish to establish themselves in an unrecognized mosque category. This policy has passed the legal test for the Council of Foreigners' Contests and is very interested by my European colleagues. That is the path that we and the whole of Europe must take, I think. For unrecognized mosques, visas are no longer granted, but for recognised mosques. For recognized mosques, I do, and I will continue to do so, Mr Terwingen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u82	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your explanation. It is important that you say that the recognized mosques must always be able to be represented by an imam and that you will take care of that. I have taken note of that. It must also be clear that we are asking for recognition of the unrecognized mosques, especially if there are favourable advice from state security. These are available and one has to look at them again, but apparently they continue to be difficult at Flemish level. It is very important, both in terms of security and in terms of cooperation with those communities, that those people know where they stand. I know from experience, especially from Limburg, of course, that a number of associations are waiting and asking parties to be recognized. Once that recognition is in place, and it may indeed require political courage, but it is in the interests of security in our society that a visa can be obtained for the imam.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u83	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u84	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Koen Metsu, Brecht Vermeulen and Conseil Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u85	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Top and Mr Thiébaut and Mrs Poncelet, rapporteurs, referred to the written report. You're the main carrier, Mr Metsu. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u86	Mr President, I understand that this legislative proposal does not lead to much discussion. What's the point? At present, the aid areas in Belgium will have to provide their budget to local authorities in October. We would very much like to see two words included in the legislative text, so that it becomes last October. Actually, that's kind of a favor. We will not make it any stricter or more difficult for the relief zones, but if a zone is to have an early budget, for example in September, then it is very interesting for the mayors and local authorities to get that budget a little earlier. The two words "the last one" are not so unimportant. We have had a very courteous discussion on this in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u87	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u88	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2268/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2268/3) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u89	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u90	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2056: Peter De Roover, Denis Ducarme, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael - 1529: Raf Terwingen, Hendrik Vuye, Denis Ducarme, Patrick Dewael - 1713: Hans Bonte - 1741: Catherine Fonck, Christian Brotcorne, Georges Dallemagne - 2047: Catherine Fonck, Benoît Lutgen, Vanessa Matz, Georges Dallemagne, Benoît Dispa, Isabelle Poncelet, Michel de Lamotte - 2132: Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u91	Pursuant to Rule 85 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the text adopted by the committee is taken as the basis for discussion of the sole Rule. (2056/5) In accordance with Rule 85(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for the discussion of the single rule. (2056/5) The discussion of the single article has been opened. The discussion of the single article is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u92	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report on the proposals for the revision of Article 12 of the Constitution. The texts were discussed, first in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and the Reforms of the Institutions in January 2016, then in the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism in 2016 and 2017, and finally in the relevant committee on 19 May 2017. These movements were justified by the explicit reference of the provisions to terrorist offences. The subject matter, not the text, has been the subject of hearings of judges, lawyers, civil servants and professors, all specialized in criminal law and criminal procedure. You will find in the written report the minutes of these hearings. I do not need to say that Article 12 of the Constitution is a central provision of Title II of the Constitution, which is devoted to Belgians and their rights. It's not an anomaly provision. Article 12 solemnly expresses the famous principle of habeas corpus according to which no one may be deprived of his liberty, his freedom to come and go, only by the decision of a judge. This decision of a judge comes, for example, at the end of criminal proceedings, at the end of the trial, when the judge sentences a person to imprisonment. That's not what we're talking about. The decision of the judge shall also be that which, prior to the trial, deprives a person of his liberty, for the purposes of criminal investigation or to ensure the preservation of public order. It is not necessary to say that the question of time limits is of paramount importance in this respect. The decision of the judge must be taken within a specified time limit. If this is not the case, the suspect must be released, which does not prevent the information and the investigation from continuing, without deprivation of liberty on the part of the person concerned, in the interval between his freedom of movement. I must not remind you of the current Article 12 of the Constitution. The wording is particularly negative, energetic and concerns Belgians as well as foreigners: no one can be arrested - in the proper sense of the term, i.e. be placed in a prison - only by virtue of the reasoned order of a judge in form and substance. This order normally issued by an investigating judge must be served at the time of arrest or, at the latest, within 24 hours. Twenty-four hours, not another minute! Nor should I recall here the Salduz case law which involves the assistance of a lawyer from the beginning of the investigation and which also takes into account the additional investigative duties which must be performed. This case law has led the legislator to introduce what I would call "accommodation" with the constitutional principle of article 12: "the preliminary inquiry may be carried out for 48 hours". But be careful! It is essential that, after 24 hours, the judge intervenes, makes an order, makes a reasoned decision that makes a new 24-hour delay. In these circumstances, article 12 of the Constitution, as it is now worded, is excepted; it is preserved. That is the state of law. It is in this context that new proposals have been made. I would like to touch on them briefly. My colleague rapporteur will continue by referring to the solution which has received a majority in the committee. First, it's simple, it's the status quo. This is the position that was defended by the Order of Dutch-speaking Bars: 24 hours corrected by the Salduz reform. In other words, in law 24 hours, actually 48 hours. The Human Rights League insisted that a review of the measure should take place every 24 hours. Mr. Van Hecke rallied to this view. As long as the investigating judge remains, he said, he remains committed to the principle of judicial review every 24 hours. That is precise! Second, it is the alignment of the law with the fact. The law is 24 hours, and in fact, it's 48 hours. Let us then put into law 48 hours, on the understanding that this is a maximum and that nothing obviously prevents a measure, a decision at the end of that period, from being taken. In the course of our work, it was noted that, for the field players, the 48 hours appeared to be necessary. Ms Kitir and Mr Crusnière referred in particular to the opinion of the investigating judges and "the passage from 24 to 48 hours", they insisted, "is justified not only in cases of terrorism but also in cases of great banditry or trafficking in human beings." The supporters of the 48 hours, if I may use this expression, have insisted on the usefulness of having a uniform and univocal regime. In particular, the federal prosecutor, Frédéric Van Leeuw, personally pointed out the danger of having different time limits depending on the nature of the offences. He told us that a differentiated system was likely to cause qualification problems. The lawyers will not fail to raise this type of problem in the course of the proceedings, which may, moreover, burden the courts with discussions such as: "Are we well in a procedure for terrorist offences or not?" Is it not possible, in order to avoid criticism, to call a large number of terrorist offences, even if we admit a posteriori that we have been wrong? Supporters of the 48-hour period also considered that a consensus solution, capable of obtaining a qualified two-thirds majority, could perhaps be found at the beginning of the proposal for a uniform deadline. The third option is a variant of the second option. Mr. Maingain, in particular, accepted the 48-hour time limit but argued that every 12 hours a police service should inform the investigating judge of the progress of the case and that an independent and impartial judge should decide, at that time, whether to release the person or, on the contrary, extend the time limit for arrest. The fourth solution is to bring the law into line with the facts and, therefore, to retain the 48 hours. However, it is a matter of accompanying this constitutional change with another constitutional change, which aims to extend the 24-hour overtime period for certain offences. Clearly: 48 hours for all offences; 24 overtime for terrorist offences. This change from 48 to 72 hours requires a decision by the judge, which is referred to in the proposed constitutional text as an order. Mr. Miller, in particular, considered that a general period of 48 hours and a 24-hour extension seemed reasonable to take into account what he called "the evolution of society", on the understanding that this decision must take the form of an order of an investigating judge. With this question which is not fully resolved in the work of the commission: order yes, but should it be reasoned or not? It's up to you! Mr. De Roover noted that at the hearing of the College of Attorneys General, the Federal Prosecutor and the Director of the Federal Judicial Police, this additional time was not disproportionate and that this was consistent with practice in other states. Ms. Fonck, for her part, noted that there may be complex, time-consuming investigations justifying a possible, but not always necessary, extension of 24 hours. The same is true of Mr Bogaert, who wants the dossiers to be a little more concrete! I would like to add three comments on the basis of our work on the revision declaration, on the revision procedure and on the implementation of the constitutional provision, if it is to come into being. With regard to the declaration of revision, article 12 of the Constitution is now subject to revision. Why? The author of the revision declaration, the legislature, said that it was to take account of European case law, in particular the Salduz case law, with regard to the assistance of a lawyer. I asked in committee whether we were in this respect, namely the assistance of a lawyer, or whether the problem was not entirely different: that of the fight against terrorism. Secondly, for the revision procedure, Mr Crusnière, in particular, did not fail to point out that the proposed texts required a double qualified majority – I am not telling you anything: two thirds of the present and two thirds of the voting. He obviously regretted that no steps had been taken to reach a consensus on the matter or to reach the required majorities. The implementation of the reform should also be addressed. In my view, an interesting clarification was made in committee. It was suggested that it might be useful to use an evaluation of the new constitutional text – for the time being in the draft – and perhaps also of the legislation on pre-trial detention. Ms. Fonck wondered, inter alia, about the risk of an unjustified increase in the length of police custody or a worsening of conditions of detention, which might be unworthy. At that time, it may be necessary to take up the matter again, on the understanding that, in the meantime, the Constitution would have been amended and that a constitutional text was still better than any legislative evaluation. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the elements that could hold back our reflection and our discussion, but my colleague will continue to read the report which I would like to present to you in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u93	Mr President, I'm a little embarrassed because I followed with a lot of enthusiasm – as much as when I was at university – my teacher, Mr Delperee. I think that he has set up the debate that we are going to have in a few minutes so well that, to say the truth, there is nothing more to add, since, in the end, it is the majority proposal as amended by Mrs Fonck's amendments that will form the basis of today's discussion. Professor, this report has explained things extremely well and I could hardly add to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u94	Thank you, Mr. Flahaux. The last rapporteur is Mrs Fonck, but she does not ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering a debate on the adaptation of our Constitution. It seems to be a little more solemn, but it is asking for other majorities in particular. What we are talking about today, the deprivation of liberty, is therefore a very important matter. On the one hand, there is the principle that we want to strictly regulate and minimise deprivation of liberty in our rule of law, while on the other hand we want to provide the services with the tools to combat crime in general and terrorism in particular and to punish them if necessary. In doing so, we must seek a proportionality between those two elements, which are always contradictory. It was discussed very widely, under the chairmanship of Koen Metsu, in the Temporary Committee on Counterterrorism, which systematically deals with terrorist measures. The Committee on the Review of the Constitution, chaired by Mr Van Vaerenbergh, also made comments on the substance. The discussions were also supported and upholstered by a hearing with a wide range of stakeholders. I have the impression that the hearings have allowed the various positions to evolve somewhat. That is good in itself, because that is what hearings are for, especially when eminent experts come to the House. For those who have not yet made that clear, it is clear that the present constitutional situation is completely out of date. Moreover, with the 24-hour detention period, which we must now use, we are dangling behind in the European platoon, which is, of course, incomprehensible in view of the developments in crime in the broad sense and terrorism. If we look at the long series of hearings I have heard a number of fellow Members say strange things about this in the media in a correct and honest way, then we can only conclude that the numerous specialists from various sections of the apparatus that are confronted with it were there fourteen to fifteen, I think, to the question that we have asked. According to the introduction by the rapporteur, Mr Delpérée, some of my fellow Members seem to be in favour of other decisions there, and five witnesses would like to keep the 24-hour detention period, as it applies today. They are particularly to be found in the League for Human Rights and the Order of the Bar. Three witnesses opt for a 48-hour arrest period for all crimes, without any division in that regard. There was one person who was somewhat less clear about this, who in any case advocated a 48-hour arrest period, but did not raise any objection to a 72-hour arrest period. In addition, five witnesses saw a better solution in the 72-hour detention hearing than in the alternatives. Those who claim that the experts have, as it were, advised us not to opt for the 72-hour detention period do have a very creative reading of the reports, which are, however, expertly drafted by the services. I think that's impossible to say. On the contrary, very important participants consider that the 72-hour detention period is particularly necessary, and if the positions are not unambiguous, what was clearly the case here, then of course the various spokesmen of the various interest groups must be weighed up rather than added up. With us in the debate, the views of the prosecutors, the federal judicial police and the OCAD are well-balanced. What was the subject of discussion, even among those in favour of the 72-hour arrest period, and we have to admit this honestly, the question was whether we would simply bring the 72-hour detention period into the Constitution, that is to say, regardless of any terrorism issues, as some would argue, or whether a distinction should be made. Colleagues, there are unmistakable arguments pro and contra. The very first proposals submitted by the majority were indeed in the direction of a 72-hour arrest period. There has been an evolution in this area. Perhaps we all want to put forward a point of order, but we also need to find sufficient consensus outside the classical boundaries of the political parties. It is for this reason that we have looked very favourably at the suggestions made by our colleagues from CdH. They suggested a solution whereby we would enter a 48-hour general arrest period in the Constitution, with a possible extension to 24 hours after legal intervention in the event of terrorism. The fact that the arrest period can be extended by 24 hours after a judicial intervention is an important guarantee for anyone who points out that we are dealing with the deprivation of liberty. Then the question of whether they really are guilty must still be answered, which is obviously an open matter at the time. There are important and strong arguments for guaranteeing judicial intervention after 48 hours. The solution suggested from the cdH angle is a solution which, on the one hand, provides for judicial intervention, but which at the same time opens the possibility of allowing us all to agree on this very rarely, hopefully, to proceed to those 72 hours, because this must be done in extremely rare circumstances which fall under the qualification of "terrorism'. Criticism has been voiced by critics in favour of an extension to 48 hours from the courts of inquiry, so no people who advocate the status quo in the hearings have expressed the fear that this last 24 hours could lead to a degree of laxity. It could lead to a somewhat slower handling of the files, with the result that people have to be detained longer than is strictly necessary to deal with their files. For the sake of clarity, we do not, of course, want people to be robbed of their freedom in spite of it. However, it is rather strange that this in itself justified fear is expressed by investigators, as they should turn the light on the green if necessary after 48 hours. It is the investigators who have the key to making that possible laxity impossible by refusing to allow that extension at that time. We are giving these people, as key players in this game, a key key to preventing this new regime from leading to derailments. That's a very good reason. Moreover, it is a very good reason to include that judicial review in the scheme after 48 hours. As I said, we have listened to the hearings. We have also listened to the arguments put forward by several fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u96	I am listening carefully, Mr De Roover. I hear you singing the praises of the CDH proposal. An important discussion we had on this subject, especially in the Committee on Counter-Terrorism, dealt with the relevance of a judicial review after 48 hours, and then decided that someone should be in a police cell. It could be expected that the investigating judge will assume his responsibility after 48 hours and, as usual, place that person in remand if there is indeed doubt. It is precisely the investigators themselves who indicated in the committee that they can do that exercise within 48 hours. Now you need to explain to me the importance of that judicial review. If cdH's proposal nevertheless requires the judge to rule on whether or not to hold an administrative or judicial decision, and if the investigators themselves consider that it is possible within 48 hours, why, unless for the symbol, do you go to those 72 hours? A second discussion concerns what a number of experts said. I remember very well Mr Van Leeuw's warning, not unimportant in this story, because he is responsible for the fight against terrorism in that country. He indicated that it was particularly delicate........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because, and that is the risk, if one makes an error of assessment, by, for example, keeping someone administrative for 72 hours because of terrorism-related crimes, and afterwards it turns out that this is about organised crime, then there is a very good chance that the whole investigation will lapse and that we will be fishing behind the grid for purely procedural reasons. These are two important elements in that debate, which you do not mention for some reason, but which I believe are extremely crucial not to go into the CDH proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u97	Mr Bonte, first of all, the report has not been read out, it has been summarised here, but you have been, and you have been, regularly present in the discussions in the Committee on Counter-Terrorism, not in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution, but you have undoubtedly taken note of the report. If you say that this issue has not been addressed, it has been addressed and it has been answered in detail. Some of the witnesses, we must be correct in this, have touched that problem. But I'm gonna take a look at your first problem first, because I don't get it. I'm sure that's up to me. You say that the investigating judge will, of course, at some point make a judgment on an extension of 24 hours. He will be able to do so on the basis of more data than when he has to do so after 24 hours. The investigation will therefore be more complete. The risk is reduced that the arrest of people will be prolonged for the reason that people do not know well and then persist just to be sure. That's a reality. A number of witnesses have pointed out that short deadlines are by no means necessarily in favour of those who have been detained because they sometimes wrongly get a further extension of the arrest. When that question reaches the investigating judge, when he or she is apprehended by that question and has to pass judgment on it, that question is asked by those who think that additional investigative actions should be possible in order to make a judgment, but that the situation at that time is of that nature in order to be able to add that last 24 hours. It goes without saying that this can be refused. It may be that the investigating judge considers that the 48 hours are sufficient. We do not impose any obligation on the investigating judge to automatically make it 72 hours. We have merely put an additional moment of assessment into it. What the hell could be the reason, why in no circumstances, in any case, could it not be that 48 hours would not be enough to reach the appropriate, thorough judgment, while an additional 24 hours might give rise to this? I want to assume that this happens rarely, and I may even hope that it happens very rarely, but there is no reason to believe that this never happens. I don't know where you'd get that mathematical certainty. They can never be given. That is why we are saying that, in these very exceptional cases, hopefully, we want to make room for ourselves by guaranteeing the intervention of the investigating judge, so that, in these exceptional cases, we do not have to face the situation that, after the 48 hours that are not sufficient in this case, we are still obliged to make all the judgements that are not valid until 24 hours later. When it comes to terrorism, of course, it is because, for example, it often involves foreign aspects which make it less obvious to complete the investigation at that time. For many other forms of crime which are not cross-border, the files are by definition simpler. It has also been pointed out that in many cases, hopefully, terrorism has not yet taken place and has been dealt with in good time. Of course, the intentions must be examined, which is much more difficult for the researchers than in other dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u98	Maybe first something about the impossible question. Is it really unthinkable that there would ever be one case? I can only observe that until now, in the entire analysis of terrorist attacks that we have known, there has been a lot of time and energy crawling in there, even in this House, no incidents of this kind are known in the distance, and people are subsequently attacking. Secondly, Mr De Roover, it is the investigators themselves who say that 48 hours is the best guarantee to maintain the balance between individual freedom and detention in a police cell for three days and nights. The investigators themselves are asking parties and therefore my party has decided not to hold on to the current 24 hours, but to opt for 48 hours. The investigators themselves state that 48 hours is sufficient, including the complexity of the crime and the Salduz legislation. In your hypothetical case, the investigating judge will proceed to the provisional arrest after 48 hours. It is the essence of the work of the investigating judge that a provisional arrest is carried out and additional investigations are carried out simultaneously. It is not by chance that I have linked two questions: what does this mean with regard to file security in the judiciary, and what does it mean with regard to the validity of proceedings if we proceed with that extension, but afterwards find that there is no terrorism, but other crime? A number of key experts have pointed out this danger on several occasions in the committee. As far as we are concerned, that leads to a plea for the extension of 24 to 48 hours, but not to the symbolic 72 hours. The field of work doesn't ask for this and doesn't need it. There are only risks associated with this, which were explained by Mr Van Leeuw and professors in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u99	We will never agree on some things. However, saying that the field does not ask is not correct. I am thinking of the OCAD, the police forces and the College of Attorney General. They'll ask. Mr Bonte, you must distinguish a number of things very clearly from each other. It is not true that you are trying to convince the whole House today that the whole investigation will be kadouk if, for example, the arrest would have taken 72 hours because the qualification changed afterwards. That's an unjustified conclusion. It's not like...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u100	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u101	Your predecessor, Mr Landuyt, had that law passed himself. I am talking about the Anti-Conflict of Justice, which was acted in legislation in the previous legislature. It became the Landuyt Act. So what you're saying is obviously wrong. Furthermore, we all know that qualifications are needed at the outset. There's a fact. They put a qualification on it. They also need them for a search or a wiretap. There is a court of law on this matter. If it turns out that this qualification might not be correct after all, but if it can reasonably be assumed that the investigating judge reasonably decided that qualification at that time, then nothing is wrong. The measure is not void or invalid. What goes for a search or a wiretap is equally valid for the arrest warrant. So there is a perfect solution to the problem you raise here, under the supervision of Cassatie. That's right. You shouldn't throw everything in a pile. Positions can be different. You can be for a period of 48 hours and a period of 72 hours. I respect that, too, but you can't make a mess out of it, and you did just now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u102	With which the answer to the question was given immediately. This is going to be an historic meeting if I see that the Attorney General and the judicial police here are apparently considered not to be part of the field of work. What is the definition of the field for you, Mr. Bonte? Those are the ones who say what you want them to say. That's the field of work. Anyone who disagrees with you will exclude you from the concept of "work area'. You might call that "swanzers." I can see you getting mad, Mrs. Temmerman. At the beginning, however, I was very clear and very nuanced. Mr Bonte, I have indeed referred to your unsophisticated piece in Knack and your unsophisticated piece in the newspaper today, in which you say that only three of them wanted an extension to 72 hours. If words have no meaning, you are right, but what you are trying to do here, contrary to the nuance I have made, is to give the impression that all the parties concerned have one opinion on this matter. That's not right, Mr. Bonte. I did tell you that five witnesses did indeed ask to stay away from the Constitution and keep it at 24 hours; I mentioned them. Three others have proposed to go up to 48 hours, but to stop there; I also mentioned them. And I've applied the nuance that you seem unwilling to apply. Five important witnesses, who also belong to the field of work, have indeed pointed in the direction of 72 hours. It would be nice if you also insert this nuance in your discourse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u103	Mr De Roover, from the witnesses we have heard, I did not call anyone a swanzer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u104	No?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u105	No, but you do say I call them "swanzers." I didn't call anyone a "swanzer." I will analyse for whom this law has been made in order to implement an efficient security policy. Forgive me if I attach more importance to what the investigators say. They have to deal with it, they have to judge the time limit within which they can make their judgement. They have to decide. Well, both in the north and in the south of the country, the dome of investigators represents 48 hours. If, in spite of the previous speaker, the federal prosecutor, Frédéric Van Leeuw, who is responsible for the fight against terrorism in this country, comes to explain that they are taking a very big risk by distinguishing between types of crime in order to assess them in 48 or 72 hours, that means something to me. This does indeed mean something more than the highly respected opinion of the people of the League of Human Rights or of the legal profession. It means more to me. I haven't missed a single hearing and I haven't called anyone a "swanzer" here or there. So I don't want you to keep creating this image.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u106	You seem to have excluded them from the field. If you do use Mr Van Leeuw as a criterion for developing your position, then I expect you to make an amendment to the effect that 72 hours without judicial review will be fully implemented after 48 hours. I quote Mr Van Leeuw: Other matters in certain cases also require that the insurance period be extended to 72 hours. Next quote by Mr Van Leeuw: In the light of this, a longer insurance period of probably 72 hours can be reasonably expressed in Belgium. If you take Mr Van Leeuw's criticism seriously, you must go further than the proposal before you today's vote. I invite you to put forward, consistently with your own words, an amendment in the direction of the wish expressed by Mr Van Leeuw. If you refuse to do so, please do not call him to witness here, because then it is a false testimony, since he is in favour of a more far-reaching solution than the one that is being put to the vote today. So don't quote him. I would also like to say that the police and the federal judicial authorities are somehow involved in this matter. You're talking about investigators. The parties concerned spoke of a large majority of the investigators. This means that, when they ask around in their professional category, they do have a group of investigators who do not agree with the majority view. This means that there are investigators who do not believe that the limit to 24 hours is enough for them. What did we say? Since a fine solution is a better one than a brutal axe, we have said: if 48 hours are not enough in very exceptional circumstances, we want to create the possibility... You should read something carefully. I can only repeat this: to create the possibility, in very exceptional cases, of taking the step that cannot and would not be possible in the present circumstances if we only extended to 48 hours. In politics, quotes, arguments and summings are of course used as they come out good or bad. I challenge everyone to take things out of the report that I would have wrongly quoted from one of the witnesses who have turned up. The solution we are suggesting here, which we are putting before the Chamber, is indeed a balanced solution, for the reasons I have given. It is not a brutal solution that makes it possible to pick everyone off the streets and hold for 72 hours. If that were the situation, I can assure you that we would set up our spines as well. The current 24-hour constitutional arrangement is clearly outdated. It is nice that through the testimonies the moving insight has been given that we have to go to 48 hours for everything. There is no consensus on this either, but a large majority is in favour of us going to at least 48 hours. We believe that everyone should now assume their responsibilities and state clearly what position they are in. That's what this chair is for. Mr Bonte, you said that there is no known case in which that would have been necessary, but no one can deny that there can be no cases where such a measure might be necessary. To govern, that's to foresee. [[.]] In this case, too, it is possible to provide the instruments requested in this exceptional case, not by the important people, but by important people from the field of work. In my opinion, no one here on the cathedral can argue convincingly that the 48 hours of deprivation of liberty would not be too little under any circumstances. It is a very sensitive issue, that of terrorism. The question before us today is the following. Will we be able to allow 72 hours of deprivation of liberty in very exceptional cases, with the approval of the investigators? I repeat that the investigators must shoulder their responsibilities. If a investigating judge considers that an extension is wrongly requested, the investigating judge may refuse that application. I continue to stress that the investigators are formally embedded in that process. Can anyone justify, in the events that hopefully never took place in which 48 hours of deprivation of liberty is not enough, that we would take away the chance that we would not be able to use additional 24 hours? It is a question of people who are at the forefront of the fight against and the persecution of terror in the field of work. Even if it only happens once in the future that 48 hours are not enough, it would be very difficult for me to have given me the opportunity to act accurately in that case. I could not reconcile that with my conscience. This applies to all the members of my group, and we will naturally support this proposal. I hope that everyone knows what importance is at stake in this matter. It is also extremely important to know what important brakes we have built in. I hope that everyone will also bear in mind the possible consequences if this proposal is not adopted. That morning, I wouldn't want to open the paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal which brings us together today, we consider it to be of strict common sense. It's about efficiency. It's balanced. She's no excess. I believe that, in relation to the extension of police custody, we must ignore ideological positions, disregard the majority/opposition divide, as we have been able to do on a number of occasions on various issues related to terrorism. We were able to hear, in the Committee on Terrorism, under the chairmanship of Mr Metsu, in the Attentats Committee, under the chairmanship of Patrick Dewael, several repeated testimonies, which have shown us, very concretely, the need to see the maximum period of police custody extended from 24 hours to 72 hours for terrorist offences. This is, of course, a step in the direction proposed by the government in the aftermath of the Paris attacks. Let's remember what we're talking about! We are talking about terrorist offences, incitement, recruitment, planning of attacks, preparatory acts, such as the identification or provision of a cache, returns to or departures from Syria of persons who will join Daesh, and various participations in the activities of a terrorist group. We are talking about terrorism today in the context of this proposal. Therefore, if we want to have a comprehensive view of this case, it is probably useful, as far as police custody is concerned, to stress that Belgium is, today, one of the last countries in Europe, together with Romania, according to what the Federal Prosecutor has told us, to have retained a period of police custody limited to 24 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u108	What about the rest of Europe? Germany, Austria, Italy and the Netherlands, for example, already have 48 hours in police custody. In Spain, it can last up to 72 hours. In the case of terrorism, the person in custody may spend five days in solitary confinement and up to 13 days if the judge so authorizes. In France, it can be extended for up to 96 hours by the intervention of a judge from 48 hours for certain serious offences, including terrorism, or even six days in case of imminent attack. In England, police custody can be extended for up to 14 days or even 28 days in the event of a terrorist offence through the intervention of a judge. But we don't want to go that far! Our proposal is quite balanced with a European average. When I say that we do not fall into excess with this proposal, compared to situations in application elsewhere, it is not mere words but a reality. It is also in this sense that, given the context we are going through today in Europe, it was useful to look back for a few moments at the clearly international comparison which makes us, perhaps more clearly, the demonstration that we have not yet sufficiently adapted our legal tools with regard to the threat in the matter of police custody. It is also worth recalling three points which call for the extension of police custody. Firstly, the practical inapplicability of existing derogations. Much has been said about this, but it is worth recalling that article 15 bis of the Pre-trial Detention Act of 1990 theoretically allows for the extension of this detention for 48 hours by means of a reasoned green light from an investigating judge. But this provision, as the investigating judges have indicated, is very little used in practice. In fact, we only have 48 hours of police custody available in the vast majority of cases. Another point calling for the extension of police custody - and those who have followed the Terrorism Committee or Attentats know this - is of course that of the specificities inherent in terrorist investigations. They usually result in a logistics organization developed with respect to weapons caches, explosives, and false papers. They are also characterised by the extremely frequent use of new technologies: smartphones, computers, laptops, encrypted software are part of the daily lives of our investigators. In fact, the time taken to produce technical results, for a number of research, obviously makes things very complicated for our investigators. They told us this during the hearings in the Attentats committee. Twenty-four hours is too short. Terrorist records take more time. The police services, the public prosecutor's office can no longer operate within 24 hours. Why? Because there is today – and this is a step forward – the Salduz procedure, which prohibits the initiation of an interrogation in the absence of a lawyer. This is progress, but it forces the police to wait sometimes for up to two or three hours before it arrives. So, in the end, Salduz reform was carried out without updating the tools that have affected police custody here. Similarly, in the cases we are talking about, it is not uncommon for the suspect not to speak French or Dutch, which requires the presence of an interpreter. Again, we need to contact him, get him here, and that's as much time lost for our teams. In fact, the police sometimes have only eight to ten hours to conduct their interrogations and exploit their searches in order to obtain information that will enable the investigating judge to prepare his case, as well as his motivation. Again, in fact, we emphasize the short period of time left for our services to work. There is another element, which might seem somewhat paradoxical to some. But he's not. Of course, it is a matter of allowing the investigating judge to act both as a prosecution and as a defence. The short period of police custody also means that the prosecution and the police – as they have told us – regularly submit their files at the last minute to the investigating judge while the latter must act on the charge but also on the defence. In January 2016, investigating judges told us: "If we had more time, it would sometimes also allow us to exonerate some of the people who now have to be charged in an emergency given the extremely short time that we are facing." If the investigating judges themselves, who are investigating the prosecution and the defence, consider that it is becoming urgent to extend the duration of police custody, and if the surrounding countries are doing so, why, indeed, could we not adapt this principle to the threat we face? Following the hearings, we adapted our initial proposal: the extension to 48 hours for ordinary offences, the extension to 72 hours for the facts determined by law after intervention by the investigating judge. We must, as we have done on a number of other issues related to the strong evolution of the terrorist threat, go beyond the majority/opposition divides on such an important issue. It is about giving our services more opportunities to work more effectively. We, the majority, have adopted an amendment to the CDH, which I very clearly welcome the constructive attitude on this issue and the sense of responsibility advanced, beyond the divisions, on such an important issue. This case is difficult. There have been many discussions and negotiations. The CDH shows us its willingness to move forward in the right direction. All the elements I have mentioned at the moment call for an extension of police custody. In this respect, we must insist on our desire for balance. I have spoken of this proposal, which is not excessive. It presents the necessary balance between security and freedom, which is at the heart of our approach. Security, as we will repeat, is the first freedom. Without it, our rights and freedoms are theoretical. Security makes it possible to make their exercise effective. We cannot therefore remain inactive, but we must improve every day, in our political office, which can and must be improved. For more than a year, we listened, heard, discussed and exchanged views on the possibility of extending the duration of police custody. We have highlighted the demands made by the police, the magistrates. Perhaps, even more deeply, we have seen, taking the time to listen to them, how difficult their work and the fight against terrorism are. This project will not make this struggle less difficult, but it will allow them to work a little more calmly in a number of cases. We must welcome their work in preparation and the work of justice in this area. I will return to the last few years: in 2015, there were 115 convictions for terrorist offences; 135 in 2016 and 17 to 13 March 2017. Europol has raised this point: the results achieved today by our services are good. But, let us repeat, if the results achieved are concrete and of quality, the services work today by remaining on the razor wire, pressed as they are. They sometimes practice eight to ten hours of interrogation, which is too little, but they are in a hurry of time. We must therefore extend this custody to 72 hours for terrorist offences, subject to the authorization of the investigating judge at the end of those 48 hours. We will thus clearly be part of the common will to continue to raise our level of security. It was time to take action. The proposal is now on the table and our services need this reform. It is now up to everyone to assume their responsibilities by exercising common sense, by overcoming ideological divisions, by relying very concretely on the needs, the need for reform in relation to this extension of the police custody demanded by the field. On the ground, it would not be understandable that this desire for reform could not be met without excess, balanced and comparable to the European average for police custody. Colleagues, everyone will make their choice. This proposal, which took time to reach the negotiating table and the plenary, is a moment of truth in relation to a necessity, a reform that was one of the 18 points initiated by the government and which we are carrying today with that majority. This is a moment of truth when everyone is in front of his or her responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u109	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 19 November 2015, the Prime Minister here in the Chair announced that he considered it desirable to extend constitutionally the administrative detention period for acts related to terrorism from 24 hours to 72 hours. Although Article 15a of the Law on provisional detention already allows for a slightly complex method of derogation from the 24-hour period with an additional period of 24 hours. In the facts, however, this method is virtually never used because it is too cumbersome. Due to the increasing complexity of certain criminal investigations, terrorism investigations in particular, it is only logical that more and more time is needed to analyse and confirm the evidence collected. It may be useful to confront the various individuals who have been detained simultaneously with each other's statements and verify their statements with the evidence found. Think of an investigation into the Abdeslam brothers, which was dismissed by the federal prosecutor before the mobile phones and laptops could be investigated. Such investigations indeed take time, which was not there. We know here in the Assembly and in the meantime all the name Abdeslam. It is not unreasonable, therefore, to give the prosecutor 48 hours to dust his file before he or she goes to the investigating judge and thus to expose his or her research strategy to the suspect. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, deprivation of liberty is a major issue which we must not shy away from. We have heard a lot of experts in our committee on combating terrorism over the past few weeks and months. Last week, the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks on 22 March also stressed in its recommendations the importance of cooperation between security services and authorities in preventing and/or tackling violent terrorism. Information must be exchanged internationally in order to reach a broader picture and the right conclusion. It is clear that at 48 hours time there is much more opportunity for this than at the present 24 hours. To continue with the spirit of terror: it is clear that investigations in the fight against terrorism are more often than not very complex investigations, with many suspects and with many branches abroad. It is in the interests of our fight against terrorism and serious crime in general that sufficient time should be allowed to do so. We cannot afford procedural errors in these matters. The hearings of the Anti-Terrorism Committee also showed that an extension of the arrest period to 48 hours is not unreasonable. Among other things, the investigators, the federal prosecutor, the College of Attorneys General, the federal judicial police and Professor Verstraeten spoke favourably about this. It was also noted that Belgium is one of the last Member States within the European Union to apply a period of 24 hours. The fear, ladies and gentlemen, that the extension would lead to a certain degree of resignation on the part of the researchers shows, in our view, a misapprehension of the hard work of the police and the police. Our group has moved away from the initial automatic extension to 72 hours because we are aware that this may have been overly long, on the one hand, for all crimes and, on the other hand, without the intervention of a judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u110	However, we remain convinced that in some cases a period of 72 hours may be appropriate. That is why we provide for this possibility, but we also require a judicial review to be carried out. The text before us expressly states that these are exceptional cases. The problem of legal uncertainty as to whether or not an incident should be classified as a terrorist offence is more theoretical in nature. After 48 hours one will usually have a clear view of this. In case of doubt, the judge may still decide not to allow the extension of the time limit for arrest. We therefore believe that, with the extension dependent on the intervention of a judge and limited to terrorist investigations, there is a good balance, ladies and gentlemen, between the needs of research, public security and fundamental freedoms in the rule of law. Finally, I would like to say two more things, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, it is always a matter of a maximum period and the suspect can be released at any time. Secondly, the extension of the time limit for arrest may also, and this was also mentioned by a number of fellow Members of this House, be to the benefit of the suspect. Since there are, of course, many investigative acts that can be taken, it is possible that at the end of this period there will be no need for the person concerned to be remanded. This will avoid any unnecessary suspicion of the suspect. A suspicion has serious consequences for the person and this can also have serious consequences for his or her environment. Moreover, a representative of the P Committee confirmed in committee the suspicion that the extension to 48 hours might lead to fewer arrest mandates. Ladies and gentlemen, with this important amendment of the constitution, Belgium is not taking a step towards a police state, but on the contrary it is in line with the 21st century rule of law, which ensures the optimum security of the population. I therefore call on everyone to support the proposal. Today we are deciding on an important update of our Constitution to improve our security of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u111	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal before us today is very special, particularly as far as my group is concerned. Our group attaches great importance to our constitutional rights and freedoms. That's in our DNA, Mr. Bonte, and we're doing it very well. That has not changed today, and it will not change after the vote on the proposal later, and we will vote yes. Ladies and gentlemen, the freedom of persons is one of our most fundamental values. This freedom can only be restricted under very strict conditions defined by law. If such a restriction is imposed, it must undoubtedly and necessarily be reviewed by an independent court. Ladies and gentlemen, that right is so fundamental that it was already enshrined in the Constitution at the time of the birth of our country and has now been confirmed in Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights. However, as with all rights and freedoms, the freedom of person is unfortunately not an absolute right either. It is a right that must be balanced against other rights and freedoms. One of which we are increasingly aware is the right to security. Security seemed so self-evident until recently, but the terrorist threat and the attacks that hit our country and its citizens taught us that the opposite is true. That is why we have had to weigh up a number of fundamental rights and values. In fact, we have done so on a well thought-out basis. Indeed, we did not come up with a proposal quickly; the proposal has gradually grown following several hearings and following the Prime Minister's announcement that it was necessary to make decisions and that, in order to combat terrorism, we might have needed an extension of the period of detention from 24 to 72 hours. After hearings and due consideration, we have come to the conclusion that we must assume our responsibilities. When it comes to the duration of deprivation of liberty, we note an evolution, not only in terms of the nature of the crimes we face as citizens, but also in terms of the rights of the defence. Let us take a look at the nature of the crime phenomena we are facing. That was often discussed during the hearing. We are thinking, for example, of trafficking in human beings, which are very often of an international nature, in which people's lives are at stake. In order to tackle such crimes, it is often necessary to rely on information from abroad, thanks to international cooperation, and therefore to have sufficient time to gather clues. In addition, due to the evolution of the rights of defence, more time is sometimes needed. I am thinking not only of the identification of persons but also of the fact that different aliases are often used, as well as the right to be heard in one's own language or in a language that one understands, about what one is accused of. That's a good evolution, but the investigation takes some time. The right to the assistance of a lawyer also ensures that the period of 24 hours in general may be too short and that it is appropriate to extend it to 48 hours before a judge decides whether or not a person should be deprived of his freedom and can be detained. We have come to this realization for some time now. That is also why, in the previous legislature, there was a possible extension of the original detention or deprivation of liberty from 24 hours to 28 hours. As a result, Article 15a was entered in the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, during the hearing it was rightly noted that its application in practice is difficult because the investigating judge has to abandon his strategy at an early stage of the investigation, which is counterproductive for detecting certain crimes. That is why the slope of Article 15a is not the right path. Our group can support a general extension to 48 hours. That's a well-considered decision. This strikes a balance between the right to security, on the one hand, and fundamental rights such as freedom of person, on the other. Ladies and gentlemen, we, too, have agreed to an extension to 72 hours for terrorist offences. Many of you will comment on how it is possible for a freedom party to agree to an extension to 72 hours. I asked myself the same question. However, I have to look at the facts and note that there are justified arguments for this. Those arguments have convinced me too. Firstly, it is about the nature of the crime. In the case of classic crimes, as there were in the past and unfortunately still are, except for terrorism, we see the economy of the crime very often in money gain and personal enrichment. Terrorist crimes are crimes of a totally different nature. They intend to destroy the state and its citizens. The other nature of these crimes undoubtedly justifies, in addition to all the other arguments put forward to allow the extension from 24 to 48 hours, the extension to 72 hours for terrorist offences, when it is necessary to detect such crimes. However, there is more to it than that. Those who have already had the opportunity to browse through the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks of 22 March and to look at the section on the execution of sentences, which contains a number of figures, including the provisional arrest, will have seen that in recent years many people have been finally released by the council chamber, not just one or two, but dozens of people who were originally suspected of a terrorist offence. However, if one is suspected of a terrorist offence but is released in the absence of evidence of guilt, one is signed and carried along with it for the rest of life. It shouldn't be, but it is the reality. If that is to be borne in mind, and I say this on the basis of the idea that individual freedom and our rights are very fundamental, then perhaps it is better to be deprived of his freedom for 24 hours longer, but as a result that during those 24 hours it can be shown that there is nothing to do with terrorist crimes and that a blank sheet can be left the police cell. I believe that this is an argument to argue in certain cases to the investigating judge and to allow the investigators to hold someone for 24 hours longer, not only to look for evidence per charge, but also to look for evidence per charge. I think there are plenty of arguments, ladies and gentlemen, which have convinced us to agree to the extension to 72 hours. We do this with lead in our shoes. We have to admit that. It's not very heartfelt. However, it is also not entirely heartfelt that we, as a society, are faced with such state-destructive crimes as terrorism. That is the reality with which we must live and to which we must measure our freedoms. That is against which we must protect them as best we can. That is what we want to do today by voting yes to the proposal before us. I would like to comment briefly on a point made by Mr Bonte. I believe that Mr De Wit has excellently refuted the fact that an investigating judge should let go of a suspect of very serious crimes because the initial qualification of terrorist crime in progress cannot be maintained. That is an argument that cannot be stopped, I believe. This is a test where the judge places himself at the time of qualification. If, at the time of qualification, there is sufficient evidence that this was a terrorist offence, one will rightly have robbed a person of his freedom for 72 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, that argument will not mislead me and our group. We shall therefore vote in favour of the proposal now before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the floor has already taken place: today is perhaps an historic day, even if we have to wait and see what the vote will bring. Today, the majority, together with cdH and with the support of the Flemish Interest, want to congratulate CD&V, Open Vld, N-VA and MR. It's not about just any article. No, that article has remained unchanged since 1831. So it has been unchanged in our Constitution for 186 years. I understand that this does not impress everyone, but it shows that this provision has lasted 186 years. That provision is clearly not being changed lightly and certainly not lightly. It is a particularly important provision. That article of the Constitution says that no one can be deprived of their freedom without being examined by a judge within 24 hours. So let us not take this lightly. What is more, let us be proud that we have such protection in Belgium. It is one of the most radical measures that can be taken to deprive him of his freedom. The amendment of the Constitution should not be an innocent act, especially when it comes to changes relating to fundamental rights and freedoms. There has already been a great deal of reference to the hearings. Many opinions were expressed during the hearings. Sometimes they agreed, sometimes they did not agree at all. I'm gonna quote from it once in a while. I want to do that in all objectivity, too. I'm not gonna do it colored. But some things are better for me than others, just like Mr De Roover. During the hearings, Damien Vandermeersch said that this was not just anyone, as the Advocate General at the Court of Cassation stated that such a démarche should be judged against the principles of necessity and subsidiarity. That's quite right. That is also a good consideration. Is this amendment to the Constitutional Article really necessary today? Can we possibly not solve the problems that exist in another way? Is the problem really so pressing and is there no solution to that? The problem outlined in the hearings by several people exists and is real, not always but in some cases; we are not going to deny it. There's the lawyer's assistance. That existed 30 years ago, 50 years ago and 186 years ago. I admit that. There is the assistance provided by interpreters. In the meantime, we also have a great deal of legislation governing the rights of suspects, as well as of witnesses or victims, as regards the assistance provided by interpreters. And more and more interpreters have to be called upon in recent years. That was less than thirty or forty years ago. They also often wait for results of research, for example reading the mobile phone. They are still trying to do so very quickly, to have a number of elements. And sometimes they've stopped a lot too. We therefore understand that it is sometimes not so obvious for an investigating judge to obtain all the information within 24 hours, to question the defendant, to ensure that there is assistance from an interpreter, a lawyer and so on. The question is whether we need to solve that problem by amending the Constitution, or can we solve that problem by another way? We are convinced that we can solve these problems without the need to change the Constitution. And it should under no circumstances be changed in the sense that the time limit can be brought to 72 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, today the existing 24-hour deadline can already be extended by 24 hours to 48 hours. We discussed this at length during the hearings and the discussions. It is a provision which is contained in Article 15a of the Law on provisional detention. However, what did we find during a very interesting discussion? We have found that this provision is not being applied very much. This is evident from an investigation carried out by the Criminal Policy Office. Following an evaluation of the Salduz legislation, that service analysed the possibility contained in Article 15a of the Law on provisional detention. This would show that only in 1% of the cases the investigating judge is relying on the possibility of extending the 24-hour period by 24 hours. On the question to the investigators why they hardly use an available legal remedy, they gave the following reasons. They point out that the procedure is rather difficult. In fact, they have to give serious reasons for the extension. In their statement of reasons, they must already disclose a number of elements, while they are still investigating and have not yet taken a final decision. They must put those elements on paper. The document may also end up with possible accomplices and accomplices through the lawyers. They sometimes give too much information, which sometimes says something about the strategy they follow. For the sake of clarity, I fully understand their argument. We're not blind to it. The question then is how this problem can be solved. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled two legislative proposals. We have first tabled a proposal to amend Article 12, which I shall come back to later. We have also put forward a proposal to amend Article 15a of the provisional detention law in order to ease the conditions in this respect and allow the investigating judge to extend the detention period in a less complex way and without having to give up his strategy. We believe that this relaxation is a better way to tackle the problem than to amend the Constitution. The amendment of Article 15a of the law on pre-trial detention was also suggested by a number of experts we have heard, namely the lawyers of Avocats.be and Professor Vandermeersch. That alternative does not require a change to the Constitution and can also be very effective. However, that is clearly not the way forward. They absolutely wanted to go for the amendment of the Constitution, with the possibility of 72 hours. The fact that the Prime Minister announced this in the chair, even before he had any contact with the opposition to see if there was a two-thirds majority, to the surprise of many members of the majority, is of course the reason why they could not leave that slope. Our position is very clear, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to repeat it just to avoid creating any ambiguity. Firstly, it is an essential task of the government to guarantee the safety of its citizens. Let's assume that, all of us. Secondly, the 24-hour detention period, as it currently stands in the Constitution, can be taken to 48 hours for us, but on two conditions. We continue to consider it essential that there is a judicial review after 24 hours. As I have just explained, that may be a lighter check. It may be a decision of the investigating judge, which can facilitate the extension to 48 hours. Under no circumstances may the extension be extended to 72 hours. Why do we choose control after 24 hours? There are three reasons for this. The advantage is that if an investigating judge is already involved after up to 24 hours, he is very quickly involved in the file. Normally, he'll be involved in investigations that have been going on for a while. When it comes to an ongoing file in which it is ultimately decided to proceed to a search or deliver an arrest warrant for certain persons, he may already be aware of the file days, weeks or months in advance. However, in certain cases this is not the case. A 24-hour check thus guarantees that the investigating judge will be involved more quickly in the file. Moreover, we avoid the 48-hour deadline becoming the rule. After all, we fear that the 48-hour arrest period will eventually be applied to all crimes and not just to serious crimes. An often heard and justified complaint by the investigators is that they often receive a file after 21, 22 or even 23 hours, and then they hardly have time to interrogate the defendant and read pvverbs, in short, to do their job. What guarantee is there that this problem has been solved by a 48-hour arrest period? The police might wait with a pv. The investigating judge has 48 hours. It's the end of a shift. The agent can decide to finish the pv the day after. In this way, there is a risk that the file will reach the investigating judge after 45 or 46 hours. The investigating judge will then have to re-assess that he will have very little time to study the documents and make a decision. I am not saying that this will happen in all cases, but there is a risk. There is a risk that this will also be done in less complex cases which may also be completed within 24 hours without any problem and submitted to the investigating judge. No more checks after 24 hours means de facto a step backwards in the protection of fundamental rights guaranteed today by our Constitution. Why are we not in favour of the possibility of an extension to 72 hours, provided for in the Constitution? Whether you are in favour or against, ladies and gentlemen, you have had to observe in the hearings that there was no clear and broad signal about the need for this. The investigators don't ask for 72 hours and find 48 hours enough. They ask for 48 hours in one period, while we ask for a check after 24 hours. That's the difference. For a large part of them, therefore, a period of 48 hours is sufficient. Secondly, after 48 hours, how can we be sure that this is a terrorist offence? We have discussed for a long time the problem of qualification, which has to be done after 48 hours. It will not always be possible after 48 hours to know whether or not a crime was committed for terrorist purposes. Sometimes that will be very clear, sometimes not at all. Let me give you two examples. If anything happens in the world, it'll be on our screen soon. Well, a few weeks ago, there was an incident in New York, near Times Square, where a motorist hit pedestrians. The immediate question arose as to whether it was another terrorist attack, since the incident resembled previous attacks. Soon, however, it turned out it wasn't a terrorist attack. And do you remember the incident on the Meir, colleagues? It wasn't after 72 hours that it was established that it had nothing to do with terrorism. That investigation took some time, and in the meantime, the person concerned was released. I would like to point out that it is not always obvious after 48 hours to determine whether or not a crime can be linked to terrorism. And what if a person is held for 72 hours and afterwards it turns out that the crime was not terrorism? People say, "Oh, I'm sorry, we made a mistake"? The qualification after 48 hours is a problem and that was cited by several witnesses. The investigators have requested that please do not extend to 72 hours on the basis of certain crimes, because it will be a problem. That's what the federal prosecutor said. I would like to quote what he literally said in committee: "If the law specifically refers to terrorist offences, lawyers will certainly try to attack the qualification of the investigation, with possible procedural errors as a result." However, Mr Cumps of the P Committee also warned about this problem. That is why we believe that the choice to allow an extension to 72 hours is a dangerous choice that could have dangerous consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, there are other measures that we can take to remedy the problem we have outlined, which we do not want to minimize. We could ensure that the interpreters are properly paid, so that they have a sufficient number, so that they can be there quickly when they are needed. There is frustration with the interpreters, you have inherited that file about the delays in payments. It has been overtaken for a long time, but let us take care of it. Let us take care of the pro-Deo attorneys, who are also often called for low fees and quickly, at weekends and at night, to be present. Let us ensure that they are rewarded well and correctly. Ensure sufficient and adequately supported investigators, so that they are with enough people to cope with the workload in case of emergency. Get me enough cops. In the Federal Police, that is what we have established in our report, there is a chronic lack of men, not directly in the terrorist services, but especially in other services. In the Committee of Inquiry, we asked a number of witnesses the simple question of choosing between the present amendment of Article 12 of the Constitution and additional people and resources. Do you know what the federal attorney answered? He replied that he would much rather have additional people and resources than an adaptation of Article 12 of the Constitution. Of course, you'll say I'm selective, but it's there. Finally, the federal prosecutor states that additional people and resources may be preferable to the proposed revision of Article 12 of the Constitution. Those are also important signals. I would like to point out that, if there are any problems and we do not want to minimize them, there are solutions other than an amendment to the Constitution to achieve the objective. Our decision is therefore that we cannot support the proposal before us. The judicial review after 24 hours is an absolute requirement for us. We must also pay attention to the fact that our country is not moving slowly, step by step, towards more repression, to the mirage of fundamental rights and the dangers that this entails. We would like to warn against this. That danger lies in the text before us. That's not our choice. We will therefore be unable to approve the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of a very long debate that has taken place in various committees. There have been a lot of interesting hearings that we have all listened to, read and discussed, while we have also kept in touch. I note that the previous speakers, for example the first speaker, indicate the importance of this meeting. Indeed, it is not every day that we have discussions about the amendment of the Constitution. Colleagues, as far as I am concerned, this is, on the one hand, the perception that the extension to 72 hours would lead to greater efficiency in the fight against terror. That is a perception of an efficient and tough approach to the problem that we are all awake to. On the other hand, the question is whether it is effective about efficiency. Mrs Van Cauter stressed the importance of Article 12 of our Constitution. She also referred to the historical importance of our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that our Constitution is one of the most copied constitutions in the world. It has the image of a very liberal constitution, which lists many freedoms and rights. For the historians among you, I can refer to the Dutch period. Then we also knew an administrative arrest of three days or 72 hours. Mrs Van Cauter, it was precisely the first constitutionalist in this country to backtrack it directly to 24 hours because of the guarantee they wanted to offer citizens to be effectively free. I have had the pleasure of experiencing a few amendments to the Constitution, a few important days. Again and again it is seen that the majority tries to convince or separate parts of the opposition. People often end up with cdH. I remember the mayor of Mouscron, who at the time was the only dissident to provide a two-thirds majority. I remember Jan Decorte, who here too, in exchange for subsidies for his theatre company, broke down the majority. Why do I say that? It is of all times that a majority looking for a two-thirds majority is trying to separate the opposition or individuals from that opposition. The fundamental difference, ladies and gentlemen, is that at that time it was always about the redevelopment of our state, about powers and competences that had to go to sub-areas. Here, Mr Van Cauter, it is really about the essence, about one of the basic guarantees for our citizens to enjoy their freedom. There are limits to that too. In the reign of the Dutch it was three days. Until today, in our country, it will be in 24 hours. We must not, therefore, go as lightly as we are doing now, in the context of creating the perception that you are much tougher at fighting terrorism than the opposition. I believe that Mr Yüksel is right in saying that we must recognise that our administrative detention must evolve along with its time. Society, crime and crime are so advanced and the rights of suspects have evolved with the Salduz II Act that we have indeed heard and found that in certain cases 24 hours is too short and leads irresponsiblely to provisional detention. After the hearings, I am convinced that we have to go to 48 hours, but let us look at what this extension should be for. The point is that we can effectively assess whether people should actually be in remand. It must therefore be materially possible for the investigating judge to assess within a reasonable period of time whether a person should be deprived of his freedom. The investigators who have to do it say yes. Mr De Roover, you have said that I wrongly quoted Frédéric Van Leeuw. I quote literally: "The practice therefore teaches us that a 48-hour general insurance period makes it possible to meet the requirements of the investigation and the individual rights." That is Mr Van Leeuw's quote. So stop playing games and being scared. You asked me if I would wake up quietly on the day that we will see that it will be necessary and it could not be. What is the essential problem of terrorism in Europe and in our country? That we find that all those involved in acts of terrorism have already had a long history of incidents, have been well known to the police forces or have been in prison, and that some individuals may wonder how it is possible, for God's sake, that this group remains free. I'm sorry to say I know a few files a little better than others. It has nothing to do with the administrative arrest. It may have something to do with the way the Justice Department and our prison system work. As everyone says, those who are further radicalising in prisons today are the greatest risks. The symbolism, the perception must be there because shortly after the attacks in Paris, the Prime Minister said here in a form of fire or announcemental policy 72 hours. The intellectual honesty commands us to listen to the field of work. I do not prejudice the value of the words of people representing the OCAD or the police or lawyers or the human rights League, but in this House we must strike a balance between what concerns us, individual freedom, and an efficient act that must allow us to judge. Those 48 hours are needed, but not more than that, otherwise individual freedom will be affected too much. I would argue that instead of being involved in symbolism, we should really be working on efficiency. I would like to repeat the Prime Minister's words, even though they sound very hollow. He said that this is an assignment of all of us, whether we belong to the opposition or the majority, whether we are in the Flemish Parliament, the Flemish Government, at federal or local level. We all have a duty to do everything we can to ensure that safety is as effective as possible. Mr Van Hecke rightly pointed out the problem of capacity at all levels. How the hell is it that the Minister of Justice is organizing press conferences to say that a unified police structure is needed in Brussels, CD&V's plan? Everyone knows that we have a problem there, but it remains untouched. Mr Yüksel, I can continue to say that it is absurd that the Abdeslams have been able to walk around Molenbeek for four months, but it is equally absurd that the Molenbeek Police Department is not able today to use the cameras that are on the subways or that as mayor I cannot order my police services to look at the 34 video cameras that are in Vilvoorde's station. We have been saying that for two years and two years nothing is happening. What is it? It is the flight ahead, the flight to symbolism, the flight to perception, but it should be a matter of really supporting the field of work through a redistribution of police capacity in Brussels. You seem to think it makes sense that a police zone like Molenbeek gets a lot less resources than the other police zones in Brussels. Obviously, that makes sense. It seems logical that the edge around Brussels should receive less structural funding for police work than Brussels. Take care of those problems. Then you will really do something for the field of work to bring greater efficiency into security policy. Be honest about this. The hearings have shown it. According to Frédéric Van Leeuw, the ideal balance between individual freedom and the efficient treatment of prisoners is 48 hours. That is also why we are really asking that, if that two-thirds majority were not to be there in the near future, who knows, this Chamber is nevertheless in favour of extending the time limit for arrest to 48 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u114	Mr Bonte, please stand still for a moment, because Mr De Roover is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u115	I can respect your position, Mr Bonte, and I can certainly respect that your position has evolved. Originally, you were absolutely not convinced of the need of 48 hours. You have shown a moving insight, and that is a credit to you. What you adore much less is the manipulative way in which you quote and the manipulative way in which you create statistics. It's annoying, isn't it? You also give the impression that the judicial police and the public prosecutor have absolutely no role to play in the period we are talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u116	Says who?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u117	Those dealing with this, i.e., "the Court of Justice of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European You know, half a truth is a complete lie. That's what you're actually groceryizing in here. Mr Fontaine of the judicial police is not quoting you for understandable reasons. I believe that the judicial police in this trial can be counted among the fields of action. You're ignoring the judicial police beam, but I believe it should be included in the field of justice. In the report, Mr Fontaine gives a comprehensive list of measures taken during that period, and he also indicates that they have natural effects and consequences for the period needed to do so in a decent way. That's why the federal policeman says 72 hours is a necessity as far as he's concerned. I do not think it is necessary to agree with that. I give you the right to disagree with that. I do not give you the right to give the impression that that voice has not been heard. You are talking about the right of investigation, while they are talking about a large majority of the right of investigation, a nuance that you deliberately put aside, and you only want to throw that majority of investigators into the debate as a determining factor: that of course means that you are kneading truths to your own advantage. As far as Attorney Van Leeuw is concerned, your quote is not incorrect, but it is incomplete. Mr Van Leeuw has not so much a problem with the 72 hours. He thinks that is highly recommended in certain circumstances. His problem was that the 72 hours would not be applied to all crimes. I continue to challenge you, in the spirit of Mr Van Leeuw, and of the totality of his speech, not one paragraph, to table an amendment that reflects that spirit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u118	Mr President, we are now having some of the same debate as before. Mr De Roover, I can even understand that Mr Fontaine is in favour of a longer term detention mandate. However, Mr Van Hecke has rightly pointed out that the fundamental problem is a capacity problem. We see this problem at many levels, and that problem was also identified by the Committee of Inquiry. So we have to ask ourselves what the most important thing is to increase the capacity to work more efficiently and quickly, or simply to open up the door against a fundamental right through legislation? Mr President, I would like to end with the following point. There was once a Prime Minister here on the floor, who declared that the Constitution was not a piece of paper. Following the terrorist attacks, Prime Minister Michel called for a democratic response to the challenges in Parliament, together with government, majority and opposition. The argument was that we did not want to give the terrorists the right to violate our fundamental rights. We have taken seriously the Prime Minister's call, together with Parliament, to seek democratic support for this. Now, Mr De Roover, I suggest that you follow for once the wise words of the Minister of Justice, who is very well aware that a 48-hour detention period is the honorable compromise of the Chamber, our institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u119	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every week the attacks in our country, in the European Union or elsewhere in the world remind us of the reality, gravity and magnitude of the terrorist threat. It is every week that new innocent victims of attacks suffer physical and psychological trauma that will leave them for a long time in an extremely difficult situation. It is every day that thousands of police officers, substitutes, prosecutors, investigating judges, members of the intelligence services invest themselves to prevent further attacks or to identify the perpetrators and their accomplices. Our role, as parliamentarians, is to ensure that all those in charge of the fight against terrorism have the means to carry out their mission as effectively as possible. These are first and foremost human means. And we recognize that the police, the judiciary, the intelligence are now on our knees and that, indeed - the Commission of Inquiry into the Brussels bombings has reminded us again - it is essential and vital that the human resources of the police, justice and intelligence be strengthened. Our role, as parliamentarians, is also to ensure that the means are technically or legally sufficient. But our role is also to ensure that the granting of these means does not limit our fundamental rights and freedoms more than necessary, or else destroy ourselves the rights and freedoms that terrorists want to destroy. We must therefore balance the preservation of everyone's right to live in safety and the preservation of our other fundamental rights and freedoms. Finding a balance between these rights and values is particularly important. For my group, today's proposal presents a balance between these values. By 2015, as soon as the Paris attacks at the CDH, we had expressed our support for the possibility for the judge to extend the period of police custody for terrorist offences. The prosecution of terrorist offences involves complex investigations, which take time because of the international nature of terrorist networks, technical investigations of encrypted couriers or protected computers, the high number of persons potentially involved and arrested, or the blindness of the threat. At the outset, we argued that this deadline should extend to 72 hours for terrorist offences alone. We have tabled proposals and amendments to that effect. We have been strengthened in our assessment by the requests made in this regard by various major actors in the prosecution of terrorist offences, such as the College of Prosecutors General, the heads of the judicial police or the OCAM. The majority of the Government has submitted several texts. We couldn't support them. Of course, like ours, they allowed police custody to be extended for up to 72 hours. However, these laws also allowed the legislator to extend this extension to all types of offences, rather than limiting it to terrorist offences only. We could not accept it, since the legislator could then completely empty from its substance the constitutional guarantee not to be detained without an arrest warrant from the investigating judge for more than a certain period of time. So, as you know, we have tabled an amendment that limits in the Constitution itself the possibility for the judge to extend the initial period of custody up to 72 hours only to terrorist offences. In this way, the legislator will not be able to extend this extension regime to other categories of offences without revising the Constitution. During the discussions in the Counter-Terrorism Committee and the Constitutional Review Committee, we heard several political and legal objections. I'd like to answer it here. First, at the political level, some believe that nothing should be changed in relation to the current situation. I respect that view. To be completely frank with you, I would have liked to be able to share it, but the magnitude and seriousness of the terrorist threat do not allow me to do so. There is indeed a need to strengthen the means of combating terrorism, as there are others. I recalled at the moment how important it was to provide sufficient human resources to police, justice and intelligence teams. Others, during the discussions, stated that there was a consensus on a single, unextended 48-hour time frame. That's not exactly what I could hear. Of course, the Sp.a's colleagues defend this point of view, but at the same time, colleagues from Ecolo-Groen, you plead for the status quo compared to today. Our colleague from DéFI pleads for 48 hours but with information from the investigating judge every 12 hours. Among the colleagues of the PS, I heard both a will of status quo but also a will of 48 hours. Maybe you'll clarify the situation just now. We believe that a final extension of up to 72 hours should be allowed even if it is possible, if not probable, and even desirable, that it should not be used. But given the seriousness and magnitude of the terrorist threat, one cannot take the risk of depriving the investigating judge of this ultimate possibility. During the discussions, we also heard legal objections. I'm not gonna answer here. I had already had the opportunity during the commissions to bring a series of legal arguments. So I'm not gonna take them all back here. We can go back if you want. Earlier in the plenary, some argued that the differentiation of the time frame according to the terrorist or non-terrorist nature of the offence would give rise to great legal uncertainty. In committee, I had the opportunity to make two arguments. The first is that the legality of the extension of police custody should not be examined at the end of the extension, but at the time it was decided. If, at the time of the extension decision, serious and objective evidence attests to the terrorist offence, this extension is legal and there is no problem with the legality of the detention or the validity of the evidence gathered. Some mentioned the possibility of a sanction on the question of the regularity of evidence obtained illegally. In this case, through illegal detention. I am not going to re-develop the arguments put forward in committee, but I recalled the rule of article 32 of the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure introduced by the Act of 24 October 2013 in order to clarify the Antigone case law of the Court of Cassation on the irregularity of evidence. I have heard many of you recall how crucial the role of the investigating judge is. I can only abound in this direction. In a democratic society, the intervention of the judge to deprive someone of liberty is a fundamental guarantee. But our text provides precisely that it is the investigating judge who will decide on this possible extension of up to 72 hours in the event of a terrorist offence. If the investigating judges find that this is not necessary, they will not use it. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to my conclusion. It is true that we have invested ourselves since the discussions, I recognise, have been going on for a long time. The CDH has worked with the majority of the government to build a balanced solution to ensure the security of our fellow citizens against the terrorist threat, while preserving their fundamental rights against a 72-hour extension of police custody to offences other than those related to terrorism. Nor can terrorism be the element used to slip to a police state and extend the period of police custody for any type of offence to 72 hours. It is true that the opposition is not used to calling on the rest of the opposition, but I will, however, do so today. In essence, I respect the different position of the other opposition parties. You do not want to vote positively for this text and that is your right. At the same time, in view of the seriousness of the terrorist threat, I also think that you can adopt an attitude that would allow us not to block this text. In fact, you know that by abstaining, this text will allow tomorrow the investigating judges, with all the confidence that can be given to them, to decide if necessary to extend the period of police custody until 72 hours, in case of terrorist offences. We are convinced that this text is only one element, one additional tool, one among others. I will never stress enough the importance of the human means that police, justice and intelligence should be provided with. But this additional tool is important in the counter-terrorism arsenal. It would not be reasonable to deprive the magistrates and all our security officers of them for a longer period of time in the face of terrorist threats. It is these considerations, and only those who have presided over our group's choice to transcend the majority/opposition divide to make our contribution to the fight against terrorism. We had already taken on our responsibilities in the fight against terrorism and had gone beyond that cleavage, for example with regard to the PNR file, but it is not the only one. It is true that there are moments — that of the fight against terrorism — when one must be able to take responsibility. That is what we want to do today. We will therefore vote, as you understand, in favour of this text. What we are doing today in the fight against these enemies as ruthless and cowardly as terrorists are, we hope that others among you will do so as well. I appeal again to you, colleagues in the opposition, because you can contribute with us to the two-thirds majority required by Article 195 of our Constitution. The stakes are serious and at this point of great importance that we must assume this responsibility beyond the division of majority/opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, after my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke's brilliant speech on the details of the reasoning we have put forward during this debate, I would like to add a few points which I believe are important in the evolution of the long and deep debates on this subject. Recall that they have been in progress since December 2015. There were hearings throughout January 2016. These hearings were objectively reported. There were different opinions. I will not go back to that, but there was unanimous agreement that there was a difficulty. Today's system was faced with a difficulty that the terrain clearly relayed. There was a difficulty in relation to the current 24-hour system, which could be extended by the Salduz law mechanism, which, in fact, is very little used. Ecolo-Groen has heard the difficulty encountered by the field and, together with the other political groups, in the many debates on the fight against terrorism, we wanted to move forward with a compromise text. We wanted to make a proposal, to be constructive. I've heard of a hand outstretched and a step beyond the majority-opposition borders. We did it in March 2016. Our text dates from March 2016 while the text we are discussing today dates from September 2016. This shows that we have been proactive and constructive, with a compromise proposal. I am speaking here of compromise because we are changing the current situation and we are proposing to amend the Constitution for a period of 48 hours for all the wrongs with two clear lines and one principle. The first beacon is the intervention of a judge, systematically after 24 hours but relaxed in relation to what exists today, as we detailed during the previous intervention, via a simple majority law. The second beacon, which is very important to us, is to anchor in the Constitution the principle that the 48-hour time limit represents a maximum which cannot, for any reason, be exceeded. Finally, the last principle that guided our work and our reflections is not to allow us to go further, for certain types of crime, unlike the majority who want to extend it to 72 hours for specific crimes related to terrorism. We did not select this extension option at 72 hours for the reasons explained. I wanted to stress the position we have taken since the beginning. We worked and were constructive. We reached out and tabled a compromise text in March 2016 which was never taken into account by the majority. I have presented the text four times but it has never been discussed. It stopped there! So, really, I'm proud, with my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke, to be able to say that we did the job, that we have a compromise proposal. But on certain values, we are not in line with what is proposed today. We will therefore vote against, but constructively and with high values.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed the debate with interest. Both the reporter and the eight successive speakers, not all of whom we can catalog as traditional parties, I have not heard two key words in this debate, which has been going on for more than two hours. However, these two key words are obvious in this debate, namely immigration and Islam. During this two-hour debate, it has been possible not to speak on these two essential issues. That says everything about the debate, of course, but it also says everything about the real problem that we are facing and which is not being discussed, which cannot be discussed in this House. The real reasons why we are talking about extending the right to insurance from 24 to 48 hours and from 48 to 72 hours in the case of terrorist complaints are obvious. Everyone knows them, especially in real society, outside this Parliament, namely mass immigration, Islam, the radicalisation of Islam and all the consequences of it, not least the terrorism that has been hard faced in our country and elsewhere in Europe in recent years. I hear speakers refer to the following solutions: more capacity, more agents, more resources for Justice and Police and extending the arrest mandate from 24 to 48 hours, or from 48 to 72 hours. Those would be the solutions. No, those aren't the real solutions. The real solutions are, of course, elsewhere. The real solution is that we dare to discuss the problems as they arise in reality. Because of the mass immigration allowed by the traditional parties for decades, we have allowed Islam and radical political Islam to settle here and take root, resulting in terrorism. How are we going to do that? By extending the duration of the arrest warrant? I fear that this really will not be enough, quite the contrary. What is even more vengeful is that this political community - we, Parliament, the policy leaders who in the past have ultimately borne the responsibility for the mistakes that have led to the problems that the population is now facing, namely insecurity, terrorism and Islam radicalisation - is washing its hands in innocence and saying that it is now up to the police and the judiciary to solve the problems. And so, if possible, if possible, and that is also evidently debateable, we are opening up a look of extra police officers, tightening up a number of existing measures and ensuring that the branches of the trees are pruned here and there, but are not affected by the roots. That is what I wanted to say in connection with this debate. I'm getting to the bill before me. Churchill heft ooit gezegd: “It’s the duty of the opposition to oppose, not to propose.” I have been a member of the opposition for almost 30 years now, and I am sure the cordon sanitary has a lot to do with that, and I know that these winged words by Churchill are justified. In a democracy, it is up to the opposition to oppose it. But maybe today it's the moral duty not to pose. Let it be said by a primary, secondary and tertiary opposition member, it is our duty not to oppose it, because this measure is so obvious, so obvious that we can only approve it. As an opposition Member, let me say that this measure is ultimately a symbol of decades of mispolicy, not only in terms of immigration, not only in terms of integration policy, not only in terms of our policy on Islam and radical political Islam, but also in terms of police and justice, which in the past we have given too little resources, opportunities, staff and capacity to do what they have to do. Therefore, we must not shift responsibility and blame for the failure of our immigration policy, the failure of our security policy and the failure of our integration policy, which led to today's problems, to police and justice, we must dare to take responsibility here. After all, it is the politicians, the traditional parties, who have ultimately ruined it in the past. Police and Justice are supposed to put it all right today. It is then only natural that such measures should be adopted. Some members of the opposition, Green, Ecolo, PS, sp.a., are once again wallowing in indignation and pretending to be the moral conscience of democracy. We know that, they have blood on their hands by facilitating mass immigration for all these years, by talking good to Islam and imagining it as a religion of peace, tolerance and tolerance, and by finally allowing us to face today's hotbeds such as Molenbeek, Vilvoorde, Borgerhout, Deurne-Noord and I do not know, the islam ghettos everywhere in our big cities that have slowly but surely become what they are today, the strongholds of radical Islamist organizations like Sharia4Belgium for which we warned fifteen or twenty years ago. Then we were laughed away. You remember the chairman of the Socialist Party at the time, he plays football somewhere in Limburg, a certain Patrick Janssens told me that Fouad Belkacem, who was Abou Imran a carnival son of a bitch. "What are you talking about? We don't take that into account. You abuse that kind of person to become electoral better." Today I hear ministers saying that it is the most dangerous terrorist in our country. This man and his organization recruited 180 Muslims through Sharia4Belgium to travel to Iraq and Syria and to be part of the largest terrorist organization this world has ever known, namely Islamic State, in succession and in cooperation with Al Qaeda. A carnival zoot, ladies and gentlemen of the sp.a.? They are politicians like Janssens and co, your predecessors of socialist, green and other progressive houses, who are now responsible for the debacle. Today, the sp.a. and the PS, together with Green, say that this cannot be done, that we are raping democracy, that we are going too far here, that this is ultimately a violation of our democratic rights, and that this is not a good policy and a bad draft law. This draft law is necessary, unfortunately perhaps, to correct your mistakes of the past, to ensure that police and justice at least have the means to deal with terrorism as it should be, to combat terrorism, to the extent that I am very pessimistic about it, which is still possible, in 2017, now that the problems are so rotten, now that the situation is so completely out of control and we are still blind to the reality that is developing in our cities, not only in our country, but throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, there may be a cordon of sanitary around my party, and that has been going on for many years, my party certainly does not put a cordon of sanitary around other parties, and certainly not about ideas and proposals. This proposal is a good one and we will therefore support it, as we have been doing as Flemish Block and Flemish Interest for 30 years, with every proposal worth supporting. We are pleased that the majority has responded to some of the suggestions we have made. There has been a good interaction in this area, otherwise we would not have supported this proposal. That the extension to 72 hours will only be applied when it comes to terrorist suspects was a sine qua non for us, and it is also being implemented in practice. We are satisfied with that. Unlike other opposition parties, we take responsibility. Taking responsibility is not a question of being a part of opposition or majority, taking responsibility means taking responsibility for the people who are currently suffering from the problems that traditional parties, the progressives in this hemisphere, have created with their lax immigration policies, with their laissez faire laissez all over Islam and multiculture. We will therefore support this proposal from the opposition. I hope, Minister of Justice, however symbolic and small-scale this proposal may be, that we will not play political games. I hear everything and everyone has been mobilized in the opposition. That's the first time. At least they don't show up for meetings at Samusocial. But in order to stop this proposal, all PSs, even the highly pregnant ones, as I have heard, will eventually be present here today at the banks. This is already a step forward in relation to the past. That is a good thing, however, as far as the opposition on the left is concerned: at least one positive note may be. This government can count on our support for this proposal. We remain critical, we sweep the problems, which are much greater than this, not under the bank, quite the contrary. If it is a two-thirds majority for this important symbol measure, you can count on the responsibility of the Flemish Interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u122	Mr President, I am not going to be very discouraging, because many arguments have been exchanged. First of all, I would like to say that the last intervention has probably given the true meaning of the revision of the Constitution that some people propose to vote for. I confess that I was looking for her by listening to other speakers, but I have only just guessed the real scope and, therefore, the real danger, listening to the last speaker. I know that it was because we were waiting for the Minister of Justice to come that we had a chance to find, perhaps, a two-thirds majority. In any case, that is why last week we did not discuss the subject. If we postponed it this week, it was to have the honour of your presence, which I thank you, Minister. Many arguments were exchanged. I am not going to go back here to the count of the experts heard in committee, who have spoken out for or against. Of course, there were the representatives of the investigating magistrates, who told us that the 48-hour time frame was ample to carry out their effective work, including in the fight against terrorism. One or the other investigating magistrate may not agree with the representatives of the Association of Instructor Magistrates. It's quite possible. But I still assume that the spokespersons of the judges responsible for the efficiency of the work of the criminal investigation are still best placed to give an opinion. But no matter what, finally, the counting of pros and cons among the experts heard in committee. We are members of the constituent power, the most sovereign power if any. In fact, there is no opinion of the Council of State when it comes to revising the Constitution, because the grantor must assess sovereignly whether the constitutional review submitted to it brings the greatest security that the higher norm must bring to our legal system. This is the very foundation of constitutional work. I must say that among the many arguments, I have not heard the essential arguments. It is sufficient to read the very text of the proposal before us to realize the imprecision of the terms of those who plead in favour of the exceptional 72-hour regime in order, as they themselves describe in their text, to be the only terrorist offences. Already the word "only" has a little taste of editorial imprecision. I'd like to say it. The constitutional text cannot suffer from imprecision, a fortiori when we have to talk about criminalization and, therefore, the consequences that these supposed criminalizations can have on a fundamental freedom. We are in title II "The Belgians and their rights". We are not in a general text of a proposal for a law to combat terrorism. We brought it all back by saying, "Combating terrorism is a constitutional necessity." "Combating terrorism" calls for legal rigour and constitutional rigour, a fortiori if a derogation from the general rule of Article 12 is to be included in the Constitution. "Terrorist offences", of course, the Constitution cannot define them! They are not in the proposed text. There will therefore be an endless discussion as to when terrorist offences can be qualified as justifying the delay to 72 hours. I have given examples in committee that have never been answered. There is no answer because legal uncertainty arises from the text you are proposing. I'm constantly told that he's the judge. In passing, article 12 of the Constitution does not say the investigating judge. I had hoped that this text would specify once and for all that only the arrest warrant could be issued by a magistrate responsible for the independent investigation of the prosecution. The revision of article 12 could have been used to bring about this much-needed legal rigour. Why? Because the European Court of Human Rights ruled in particular on the Perben law in France, which had entrusted police custody to the Public Prosecutor's Office, it was not legally acceptable in the light of the principles of the European Convention on Human Rights. You have not even wanted, in terms of amendments and legal rigour, to introduce the concept, the indispensable role of the investigating judge. And why? Because some in the majority of the government are thinking about reducing the role of the investigating judge – as we know – and giving the prosecutor more power, which is a dangerous and potentially intrusive trend to what the legal protection of fundamental freedoms might be. Even that, you didn't want it. Moreover, it is not enough to reply, as I have often been told, that the judge will assess at the end of the 48-hour period if the alleged or presumptive qualification is that of a terrorist offence to grant the extension of the period beyond 48 hours. That is still only one aspect. But if, between 48 and 72 hours, the terrorist offence is not retained but, on the other hand, the detained person – particularly because of a circumstance of coercion that he or she is subjected to – agrees to confess other offences during this period of detention, which will ultimately not have been justified by the classification of a terrorist offence, and that other offences are admitted, and well, I tell you that there is a great risk that the courts – rightly – will consider that, in this case, the confessions are invalid and cannot be used as evidence for other criminal incriminations. This is the problem posed by the distinction between the 48 hours and the 72 hours which some are trying to defend against clearly in terms of legal certainty. And to that, I was not answered, I was quoted from the case law of Antigone. I replied that first, the case law... Excuse me? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u123	Yes, even the law! Excuse me! The law will have to comply with the constitutional article and, therefore, we will have a controversy about the constitutionality of certain legal provisions in relation to what you will have revised – if you get a majority – in section 12. We have thus moved towards legal controversies that have been noted by several eminent jurists. The former President of the Constitutional Court has come to tell us "Warning, you are facing..." [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u124	Not at all, not at all! "on the distinction between 48 and 72 hours". He made clear the danger of the risk of invalidity of criminal proceedings. That's what you don't want to hear! You could have found the legal effectiveness. You could also have found the protection of freedoms, because 72 hours is a rather exceptional time! When you compare with the law of European states, it is applicable in France, Spain and the United Kingdom. All other States are at 48 hours. All felt that it was the right balance. But you have preferred an announcement effect to the search for legal certainty with the widest consensus. I hope that this will be the failure of your attempt, in the very interest of legal certainty and the credibility of the constitutional text. It will not be the failure of the fight against terrorism, it will be the failure of those who will not have chosen the right legal weapons to be effective in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u125	Mr President, I will refer to some of the issues that have not yet been addressed. Let us first look at what we agree on. The main objective of the present text is to combat effectively complex crimes such as terrorism. This is stated in the explanatory statement of the proposal. The explanatory memorandum refers to the attacks of 22 March 2016 and states very explicitly that this situation requires Belgium to strengthen the legal instruments. The following element concerns the statement by the Prime Minister in Parliament in November 2015. He was talking about a 72-hour arrest period. If he had spoken in 71 hours, the majority would have tabled a proposal in 71 hours. Had he said 73 hours, a proposal would have been tabled in 73 hours. That is the origin of the deadline. I remember, I have a good memory of what I said about it in November 2015. At that time I was still in a position, like so many others, unfortunately, in which I was only allowed to applaud for the government. Fortunately, that is no longer the case; I now enjoy the luxury of freedom; I now enjoy the luxury of saying my ideas about it. That's fantastic. Exit the debate sheets, they're for you. I don't need them anymore. The subject of the present proposal is the fight against terrorism. Mr Delpérée reminded us of his question in committee whether the text we are discussing here can be adopted in the light of the declaration of constitutional reform in 2014. Mr Delpérée asks the question, but he does not give the answer and, of course, he puts me in the somewhat bizarre situation in which I must be the lawyer of the Belgian Constitution. It is often said that I am sometimes the devil's lawyer; why should I not be the lawyer of the Belgian Constitution? In fact, it is not for my group to defend Rule 195, given that there are so many people here in the hemisphere who have defended Rule 195 at other times. However, I would like to take a look at the present proposal in the light of the Constitutional Reform Declaration. It states that Article 12, third paragraph of the Constitution may be revised in order to comply with the European case law relating to the assistance of the lawyer from the first hearing. That's the only thing that says in that Constitutional Review Declaration. It is therefore not true that Article 12 of the Constitution can be revised indefinitely. This is also reflected in the parliamentary debates at the time, in 2014, and it is reflected in the explanatory statement prepared by the then Di Rupo Government. It is also apparent from statements by then Deputy Prime Minister Pieter De Crem, who was still in Belgium at the time, in Parliament. He said the review was limited to the right of an attorney's assistance at the first hearing. That's the bottom line. This European case-law relating to the assistance of a lawyer from the first hearing refers, of course, to the 2008 Salduz judgment. The Salduz judgment does not deal at all with the time limit for arrest, but with something completely different, namely the presence of lawyers from the first police hearing, unless compelling circumstances would limit the presence of a lawyer. I quote: "That access to a lawyer be granted from the first interrogation of a suspect by the police, except to demonstrate, in the light of the particular circumstances of the case, that there are compelling reasons to restrict this right." It's in Salduz. The Salduz judgment concerns Article 6 of the ECHR, the right to a fair trial, and not Article 5, which deals with the right to freedom and security. It contains the rules relating to the arrest. So that Salduz judgment has nothing to do with the time limit for arrest. So what does the Constitutional Reform Declaration say? It states that Article 12 can only be revised in order to register the Salduz obligations in the Constitution. In other words: can it be, what is happening here today? Actually, no. And has it ever been Parliament's intention to declare Article 12 totally open to revision? No, because you then rejected an amendment tabled by Mrs Pas, which seeks to make Article 12 completely subject to revision. An identical amendment was rejected in the Senate. It was said at that time that there was only a very limited scope for revision, and that there were a number of things that could not be done, until the Prime Minister came here and said that we should go up to 72 hours. They didn't know where the 72 hours came from. We did not know that the Constitution could not be revised on that point. You understand my very difficult and uncomfortable position of defending the Belgian Constitution here. I do my best, but it gives rise to a form of almost intellectual schizophrenia. I'm sorry I don't hear all those defenders sitting here today. Why can't I hear them? Because someone here in the chair has spoken in 72 hours. And so you all say, yes, 72 hours. As far as the Constitution is concerned, it seems that there is no longer any concern about it. What does the law say? What do all these professors say about Article 195? One person, Mr Uyttendaele, has, like me, the honesty to say that Article 195 is actually the most violated article of the Constitution. I am thinking of others, for example Mr Delpérée. I brought your book, Mr Delpérée. You are a sympathetic colleague; we do not always agree, we do not always disagree, but we respect each other. I could have brought another manual, but of course this is a little better. And what does Mr Delpérée write? "The constituent power is first called upon to rule only on the points subject to revision. The competence conferred on it is limited and in stark contrast to the general competence conferred on the federal legislature, subject to the implementation of article 35 of the Constitution." I would like to see the implementation of article 35 of the Constitution. But that doesn't seem to be until today. Anyway, there is clearly a problem here with Article 195. But the top point is that it could have been different. You could have done the change perfectly in a way that was technically consistent with the declaration of constitutional revision. You could have done just fine, as Mr Velaers suggested in committee, if you guaranteed the right of a lawyer's assistance in the Constitution, as an accessoria, extended the time limits for arrest. I can only say that, in the previous legislature, although in a different capacity, I was quite right to criticise, and I still support, the then Secretary of State responsible for Institutional Affairs, Servais Verherstraeten. Well, his successors are doing even less well. Servais Verherstraeten's trick was contrary to article 187, not to article 195, but at least it was still creative. Now we're going to get through this. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u126	With increasing amazement I listen to this. Our good colleague says he has solutions, while he has clearly refused to attend one committee meeting. Mr Vuye, I know that you are the best lawyer in the hemisphere and far beyond. But where's Vuye when they need him? We held committee meetings, Mr Vuye. We have held numerous meetings, both in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and in the Committee on Terrorism. I understand that you are now suggesting solutions to which you are of course very invited, but I very much regret that on Friday you apparently do not have time to carry out parliamentary activities and that at the time when your interventions could have been useful you refused to formulate them. I very much regret that, Mr Vuye. I would very much have liked to see you have that intervention in committee. If it hits land, we could have made use of it. Mr President, that concludes my interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u127	Mr De Roover, I would like to thank you very much for your very public confession that you seem to miss the legal advice from me and that, apparently, you are not getting anywhere without those advices, except for some clumsy work. I regret that very much, but I am not surprised. Furthermore, Mr De Roover, you do not know how I will vote. I may not want to help you. That can be perfect, that's perfectly possible. So let's wait until the end. With regard to constitutional concerns, I would like to make a further point. Does that make any impression on my group? I'm sure you know that's not true. If even Jean-Luc Dehaene wrote in 1998 in a note that Article 195 had been violated very often and that there would never even have been a state reform without breach of Article 195, it is difficult to expect me to take another view here. By the way, while I'm standing here, Mrs Wouters and I have listed all these violations. That was 24 or 25. After tonight, we may not yet know how I am going to vote. One will be added. So Article 195 actually has very little importance in practice. If we vote in favour, you will understand that it will be a great pleasure for Mrs Wouters and for me, and probably for Members in the Chamber, to miss Article 195. We'll be happy to do that, we'll admit it, we'll be honest with you. Others do so in the dive, but we do so with pleasure and openly. Again, should we vote in favour, we will be very happy to share that pleasure with the legalists of CD&V. Where is the time? It was in October 1978 that someone here for whom the Constitution was not a piece of paper and who did not want adventurers from the left and right and so on in the future! And he was gone to see the King. That was someone from CD&V or CVP back then. We are pleased to share that pleasure with you. We are also pleased to be able to share that with the reformers of Open Vld. I just heard Mrs. Van Cauter say that freedom is in their DNA. That's a very dangerous expression. I also heard that there was something in some people's DNA, but I never saw anything of it again. That was September 22nd last year. Furthermore, it is our pleasure to share this with the evolutionaries of N-VA. It must be a pleasure for you to make a revolutionary act tonight. That doesn't always happen. Now you can. It is even a pleasure to share that with the very Belgian parties cdH and MR. We shall therefore be happy to do so. For us, this Belgian Constitution, let us be honest, is a text that was adopted in 1831, which has been invoked since then for many things, which were first invoked to prevent language legislation, which was subsequently invoked to prevent further steps in the Flemish emancipation, to stop state reform, but which has been pushed aside from the moment when there is a political agreement and when it pleases French speakers. This is how it has always been done in the past, and that is how it is apparently intended to be done today. But once again, my group is at least very consistent in this. You should not ask Mrs Wouters and me to be in beate admiration for that Constitution; we do not, we are honest about it, it is a piece of paper to us, and we will be happy to do so. Secondly, it has already been mentioned by Mr De Vriendt. I also have to say something about the cordon sanitary. I read this weekend in the interest of Limburg a well-documented article in which it says that the majority has consulted both the Flemish Interest and the Parti Popular, has asked for support. Apparently not only the Constitution is a piece of paper, but also the cordon sanitary is a piece of paper. I can't remember who it was, but there was once someone in the Seventh Day who said to Tom Van Grieken: "If you submit a resolution tomorrow that shines the sun, I won't approve it. I don't know who it was anymore. He's so little around here that I forgot his name. That was a weird statement, wasn't it? This time they apparently accept in gratitude the support of the Flemish Interest. That too, like Article 195, is not a problem with my group. One has to fight ideas with ideas, not people. As far as we're concerned, the cordon doesn't exist, period on the line. But for the defenders of the cordon, and there are quite a few of them here, I would change that little string from now on. I'd say something else from now on. Perhaps one should report this to the author, the spiritual father. In the next debate with Mr Van Grieken, he would say better: 'I will vote against if you table a resolution which states that the sun is shining.' But if I have a resolution if it states that the sun is shining, I will ask you to vote in favour. That's basically what it's all about. I'm getting to the bottom of the matter now. We do not really have a problem with extending the detention period from 24 to 48 hours. We shall be voting in favour of Mr Bonte's amendment. We hope, however, that this 48-hour period will not result in the public prosecutor taking a decision on the matter shortly before the end of that period. The longer a deprivation of liberty lasts, the more one must in fact respect the rights of the person concerned. I am also sorry that the text does not provide for a certain period of time for the investigating judge. Some Members have suggested this in the debates. At least that is what I read in the reports. I believe that this could have been a useful clarification. Mr Van Hecke referred to this earlier. I regret that this has not happened. Then there is the extension to 72 hours. The normal duration is 48 hours, but this can be extended once to 72 hours. In this respect, we have very fundamental observations, certainly of a technical nature. That text is very sloppy. In Dutch there is something different than in French and German. In Dutch, the court order is given; in French, the court order is given. An Orthodoxy is motivated. An order from the judge is not justified. Therefore, it was not necessary to issue a court order but to issue a decision on the substance of the case. That's something else. So there is something different in Dutch than in French and in German. The top point is that the original Article 12 actually says it right. We are in 1831 and then in the late 1960s the word "warrant" was used. However, it shall be accompanied by a statement of the reasons on which it is based. I can easily believe that the order or, in order to use the right word, the decision extending the time limit must be justified in law and in fact. It must contain all motives and must also be clear, accurate and truthful. There are also a number of things that we need to be aware of. A 72-hour term is a very long time. Some Members have also raised the question of whether there will sometimes be a temptation to quickly discover a terrorist offence by the end of the 48-hour period, so that the deadline can be extended. What will be the result of the procedure? Mrs De Wit has an opinion on this. That is not clear to me at all. There are indeed the Anti-Gun laws and there is the Anti-Gun justice. There is also the Anca judgment, which may give rise to public liability. One thing's for sure. Lawyers will use that to try to prove procedural errors. Mr Maingain has just spoken about the concept of "terrorist crime'. That concept is indeed very vague. After all, what is a terrorist offence? It's not a separate category of crimes. It concerns certain crimes of common law for a particular purpose. That's what this is about. So that too is a weakness. Mr Justice Minister, you have stated that you can live with a 48-hour period. My group could also live perfectly with a 48-hour deadline. Normally, that was also the decision that we would have come to, should the Prime Minister not have mentioned here on stage. I think we might have come to something else. Then I come to the final point. What exactly do we approve of here? There is, of course, not only Article 12 of the Constitution, but fortunately. There is also Article 5 (3) of the ECHR. That is an obligation which, of course, we must also comply with. What does Article 5 (3) say? You're gonna think I'm inventing it here. No, I wouldn't dare. That article says that someone must be brought to justice without delay. "Indeed, this is what it says. At the time, the B-H-V in Belgium was seven years without delay. That was seven years. You will understand that this is not the meaning of the word immediately in Article 5. Fortunately, these concepts in the ECHR are autonomous concepts and have their own meaning. I would just like to look at the case law of Strasbourg and see whether the proposal before us is in line with that. Where Rule 195 makes no impression on my group, that is something else with the obligations arising from the ECHR. In the first judgment in that caselaw, the basic judgment in Brogan v. United Kingdom, it is stated without delay that "La notation de............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So we can only build in a very limited margin. Afterwards, a few years later, in 2006, in McKay against the United Kingdom, it is said that there is a maximum period of four days in the event of terrorism. Now, 72 hours is less than four days. In more recent case law, Strasbourg has amended, clarified and clarified that position. Now the view is that four days is a maximum time limit. As soon as it is discussed, there is an infringement of Article 5, but the fact that one stays under those four days does not necessarily mean that there is no infringement. That's something completely different. I refer to the Magee judgment of 12 May 2015, which was confirmed on 7 March 2017 in the case of Döner v Turkey. Now I come to my conclusion. What exactly are we doing here? We're actually doing something completely different than you think. The deadline, set from Strasbourg, is four days. The ECHR is a minimum level of protection, in other words Member States should always be stricter. We are stricter in the sense that the present proposal brings the maximum period of four days to 72 hours. That's actually the first thing we're doing here. The second thing that we are doing is certainly not that a 48-hour arrest period in the event of terrorism can easily be extended to 72 hours. That's not right at all. The Strasbourg case law clearly states, when an investigation is sufficiently advanced, that the person concerned must be brought to justice effectively. I hear here saying that issues relating to terrorism are always very complicated and difficult, but that is not right. If someone gets caught wearing a bomb belt, obviously it won't take 72 hours. The Constitutional Court also states that, each time the same guarantee is provided in the Belgian Constitution, both in this case in Article 12 of the ECHR and in the ECHR, both guarantees must be brought together. How will we vote? For us 72 hours is clearly a maximum time limit, and only a maximum time limit. The fact that the proposal remains within 72 hours, contrary to what I have often heard here this afternoon and to what I have read in committee reports, does not mean that the right to freedom and the right to security, as enshrined in Article 5 of the ECHR, is respected. Under this interpretation, where 72 hours is the maximum time limit, but where in some cases that period will be shorter and even shorter than 48 hours, therefore under the interpretation 72 hours if necessary and 48 hours if necessary, but shorter if it is possible, so is the Strasbourg case law, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal to adapt Article 12 of the Constitution contains two aspects: the general extension of administrative arrest from 24 hours to 48 hours and the additional possibility of extending this period by another 24 hours for a total of 72 hours in the event of a terrorist offence. I would like to present four elements that drive our opposition to this constitutional amendment. The first element is that one can doubt the efficiency of the measure. In cases, especially terrorism and organized crime, there are two kinds of investigations. There are files where an investigation is already under way. These are often further investigations upstream, with more spinning, listening, etc. In such cases, arrests of persons are often planned and coordinated in advance and systematically intervene at the end of the journey. In these cases, it is entirely possible for the justice system to organize so that the 24-hour time limits can be met. Then there are files like the one in Paris. There, arrested persons are persons who can be clearly linked to the facts because there are camera images, telephones, etc. Thus, the hearing in custody will not, in any case, be the decisive element on which an investigating judge will rely to issue, or not, an arrest warrant. In short, in neither of these two types of investigations, it does not appear necessary to extend the detention to 72 hours. Some supporters of the extension also claimed that a longer period of arrest, with which investigators would have more time to investigate, would lead to fewer provisional detentions, but a government-sponsored study by the University of Ghent shows the opposite. I quote: "There seems to be no direct link between the length of the period of arrest and the application of pre-trial detention." Another argument used by the Minister of Justice is that a longer period of arrest offers better guarantees for the assistance of a lawyer, but lawyers' bars are completely against the extension to 48 hours and have arranged for lawyers to be present. This argument is therefore not valid either. The second reason for our opposition to this constitutional amendment is that under our legislation, it is already possible to extend the deadline to 48 hours – subject to review by the investigating judge. However, this faculty is not or is very little used by the latter. In 2012, an order to extend the period of arrest was issued to a total of 110 times in 20 different districts – out of a total of more than 10,000 arrest warrants issued. One must therefore wonder why the duration should be extended to 48 hours, whereas this possibility, as provided for in the legislation, is hardly used. Our third motive is practical. The consequences in terms of capacity of police cells must be taken into account. At this time, some of them are not used because they do not meet the minimum requirements as set out in the Royal Decree of 14 September 2007 and in the recommendations of the Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. An extension of the period of arrest means, of course, that the necessary facilities for this purpose must be provided by the police. This would therefore require a huge investment in the maintenance of police cells. Finally, the fourth part of our opposition is based on the dangerous nature of this constitutional amendment for fundamental rights. In the discussions, we have always indicated that, on the pretext of combating terrorism, there is a desire to make criminal laws even more repressive, so that the fundamental rights of all are increasingly compromised. Unfortunately, this seems to be happening. The main reason given by the majority to justify the extension of the time limit for judicial arrest is "the need to oppose an effective response to terrorism". However, the discussion never focused on the desirability, in the ordinary law, of resorting to such a lengthy arrest. The possible consequences on the overwhelming majority of people facing judicial arrest have been left out. The latter constitutes a measure by which police officers keep suspects on their premises without any judicial review by an investigating judge. During the hearings, we heard a series of speakers and I was able to note the opposition to this measure of lawyers.be, the League of Human Rights or the Advocate General at the Court of Cassation. That is why we will vote against the constitutional amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a matter like this, I believe it is common sense that must prevail. 48 hours or 72 hours in the event of terrorism, they are maxima. The investigating judge must be trusted to judge the time he or she will need. For my party, the security of citizens is the priority. In fact, it is the primary mission of a state. Our solidarity with the victims of the attacks and their families cannot be limited to our traditional minute of silence! For these reasons, Mr President, I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the period of police custody is extremely interesting and important. We must indeed take strong and effective action to prevent terrorism. We have no right to be lax or naive. We need to move forward while keeping the Prime Minister's words in mind. I quote: "Acting against terrorists without questioning the values of our democracy, including individual freedoms." Many of my colleagues have argued largely on the basis of the testimony received in the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism. The bar, the League of Human Rights, has been mentioned and I broadly share their views. Today, I would only like to rely on the testimony of the magistrates, who are in the concrete fight against terrorism. It is women and men who must be supported and not put sticks in the wheels. Referring to the extension of the period of police custody, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Court of Cassation said: "This is not an annoyance. Such an approach must be subordinated to the principles of necessity and subsidiarity." The magistrate goes on to say: "The obligation to appeal to an investigating judge within 24 hours allows the judge to better monitor and control the progress of the case, in particular with a view to issuing an arrest warrant. The extension of the time limit may have the sole effect of delaying the transmission of the case to the judge." Therefore, with the proposal today on the table, you will delay the time when the investigating judge can issue the arrest warrant. Investigative judges working on terrorism cases already had the opportunity to move from the 24-hour time limit to the 48-hour time limit. They did not, preferring to work quickly and immediately issue an arrest warrant when it was necessary. The investigating judges, like the Attorney-General's Office, have made a compromise proposal: to increase the general deadline from 24 hours to 48 hours. This helps them - it has been said - without delaying the examination of cases and arrest warrants. You have chosen a different solution than some, among them the investigating judges, consider dangerous, because you put different deadlines depending on whether you are facing terrorist activity or great banditry. This means in concrete terms that if you put a case in police custody at 72 hours, before issuing an arrest warrant on suspicion of terrorism, and it turns out that it is in fact a trade in weapons linked to great banditry, the individuals arrested will be able to be released on the basis of procedural errors. Completing the task of judges and allowing some to be released makes no sense. So today we are making another proposal: to extend police custody for everyone at 48 hours, as the field demands, as the anti-terrorist judges demand. If we can agree on this formula, it will be further evidence of consensus in the work of the Attentats Commission of Inquiry, which calls for, among other things, additional resources for the police and intelligence services. There is still time, ladies and gentlemen, for a great compromise agreement. The fight against terrorism is worth it. That is why, Mr President, I have tabled amendments to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to amend the Constitution in its Article 12 in the sense designed by the majority is the end of a long series of measures proposed by the government to this Parliament. It is the end of a long process of operational measures on the ground and, also, the end of a long-standing parliamentary inquiry procedure which has resulted, today, in a report unanimously submitted by the majority and the opposition and which has just been published on the website, which our fellow citizens can consult. I have often heard with emotion the attachment there is to the Constitution of 1830 and 1831. Of course, I am pleased because it means that so many years later, our country continues to appreciate its eminent Constitution on all sides of this half-round. However, let us not forget that times have changed. Let me give you an example, thinking of Verlaine. It was actually Paul Verlaine. He was the victim of an emotional crime committed by his friend Arthur Rimbaud. He was tried in first instance and on appeal in 18 days. He was then locked up in Mons, in a prison, I was going to say, Mr Di Rupo, who still exists today, and who has not been renovated, in many respects. If you find that today's prisons are still in order, then for you, the texts of yesteryear may also be in order. But, for my part, I think that the prisons, today, are no longer in order. I've confessed it several times. So some texts need some renovation, and I think we all agree on this. To lead someone from Halle-Vilvoorde, the 24-hour deadline has sometimes proved too short. That means that I can agree with almost everyone who says that an extension to 48 hours is appropriate. I was delighted to hear Mr Vuye's European human rights statement. Of course, Mr Delpérée, Mr Vuye, Mr Maingain, it is always dangerous to argue with eminent constitutionalists if they are not themselves, so I will avoid that at all costs. However, I would like to say that the maximum of four days, which must indeed be assessed in concrete terms, is significantly higher in almost all of our neighbouring countries. In fact, I think I know that in France, the prosecutor can raise the time limit to 144 hours 24 hours per 24 hours. I am not arguing for this, I am simply saying that this is the case in France. In Spain, the time limit may be increased to five days or 120 hours in the event of terrorism. In Italy, the deadline can be increased to 96 hours. So there is no country in Europe except Germany, where the time limit is 48 hours, Mr Van Hecke, I must tell you where the time limit is 24 hours, as we do, at least no country knows me and that at our level we must try to fight crime and terrorism. What do I expect for 48 hours? What I expect is more legal certainty! Today, many innocent people are locked up, because they can't be released after 24 hours. Without any other alternative, it is mandatory to lock them in. I must confess that I sign numerous documents claiming damages for inoperative pre-trial detention. On the other hand, people are often released prematurely because there is no time to question them or because it is too far from Halle-Vilvoorde to Brussels. Mr Van Hecke, I have heard that you are afraid that the typical legal deadline will arise and that people will work towards the end of the term, as less good students dare to do. Parquet Magistrates are simply to produce their minutes quickly and I do not think there will be the problem there. I do think that making interpreters and lawyers useful in accordance with the Salduz and Salduz regulations is a very good 48-hour period. Parliament has already reviewed the law on pre-trial detention when the government was in current cases in 2011. I also think that, according to most of you, this is the right solution, except perhaps for the Green Group. Mr Vuye, I do not like to go into discussion with a constitutionalist, especially when he quotes other constitutionalists, but the version of Mr Velaers' speech given to me and I thank Mr Van Cauter, whom she had at hand for that, clearly indicates that we do not need to change Article 12 of the Constitution as literally as the pre-constituent states, and that the constituent is free after the pre-constituent has said that the third paragraph can be changed. At least that seems to be Mr Velaers' opinion, but again, you are probably reading him better than I am. As far as I am concerned, his text is very clear and the constituent can do exactly what she wants to do today. I now turn to the 72-hour problem, which is the stumbling block of our discussion. Like Mr. Maingain, I will not count the support of the judiciary and the lawyer either, but I have not heard anyone in the opposition say that the College of Attorneys General is entirely for the text as presented. However, the opinion of the College of Attorneys General is important in such a debate. I have not heard that a minority of investigating judges are in favour, according to those who were against. As far as the federal prosecutor – we have tried every reading – is concerned, in any case, he did not object to the 72-hour time limit, on the contrary. Mr Maingain, you blamed the text for not being clear about terrorist offences. Perhaps I could tell you that our Constitution, of which many of you are so laudative, also speaks of political crime and drukpersmisdrijven, which correspond to fairly general notions. I don't think I'm wrong. The word "only" may bother you but, for my part, it makes the text clearer. As far as qualification is concerned, I have problems of understanding. I do not see how a confession made between the 48th hour and the 72nd hour, leading to another qualification, could result in other procedural nullities, rather than an admission made between the issuance of the arrest warrant by the investigating judge and the decision, for example, of the board of counsel. The prosecution will always requalify and win, being followed by the Chamber of Counsel or the trial judge. I therefore do not think that the procedural nullities to which you refer are a reality. Ladies and gentlemen, I have one last thought that will surprise you. Terror is a crime that often leads to mass arrests. It is frequent that fifteen persons and more are detained at the same time and that one investigating judge or two investigators have to solve that problem within 24 hours. This leads to many unjustified releases and often dangerous releases. You also need to see another advantage of the text for those of you who think they are protected by the Constitution. The text, as amended by the amendment to the CDH, will no longer permit the adoption of a law such as the one you voted in 2011. The amended text will only allow, in ten or fifteen years, a parliament, with the authorization of the greatest constitutionalists in it, to vote, perhaps to 149 in favour and one abstention, the extension from 24 hours to 48 hours in some cases, with an order. That will no longer be possible. The text of the amended Constitution will be restrictive and will no longer permit any derogation from the legislator. I would have thought that the opposition would have liked such a restriction on the power of the government and the majority. If this is not the case, I am surprised, because a clear reading of the text leads to it. It may no longer be derogated from by law in article 12, paragraph 3, of the Constitution. Mr Maingain, the 72-hour deadline will only be possible in the event of a terrorist crime. The problem of requalification really does not arise. Everyone who knows a little about it in criminal law knows that. Honestly, after all the measures we have agreed together, after the report unanimously approved by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, please, let us not prolong this lengthy discussion and vote on this amendment to the Constitution. The country deserves it. All the countries around us show that this is the right path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u132	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The discussion of the Single Rule is closed. The discussion of the single article is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u133	• 5 - Stefaan Van Hecke cs (2056/6) • 6 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (2056/6) • 10 - Olivier Maingain (2056/6) • 7 - Olivier Maingain (2056/6) • 8 - Olivier Maingain (2056/6) • 9 - Olivier Maingain (2056/6) • 11 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (2056/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u134	The vote on the amendments and the proposal for revision will be held. The vote on the amendments and the proposal for revision is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u135	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 June 2017 and at the request of the proposers, I propose: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sarah Smeyers, Mr Koen Metsu and Mrs Sophie De Wit) amending the Belgian nationality code as regards the declaration of Belgian nationality, No. 1968/1, to be referred to the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism. - the legislative proposal (Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Vincent Van Peteghem, Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Veli Yüksel) on reporting on the application of binding legal acts and compliance with the primary law of the European Union, No. 2332/1, refer to the External Relations Commission. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 June 2017 and at the request of the authors, I propose: - to refer to the Temporary Committee on the Fight against Terrorism, the draft law (Mrs Sarah Smeyers, Mr Koen Metsu and Mrs Sophie De Wit) amending the Belgian Nationality Code with regard to the deprivation of Belgian nationality, No 1968/1. - to refer the draft law to the Committee on External Relations (MM. Servais Verherstraeten and Vincent Van Peteghem, Ms Els Van Hoof and Mr Veli Yüksel) on the report on the application of binding legal acts and respect for European Union primary law, No 2332/1. These proposals were previously sent to the Justice Commission. These proposals had previously been referred to the Committee on Justice. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u136	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u137	Mr President, I certainly have no problem with amendments being sent electronically. But not until 20:00, after you have said that there are amendments, did I receive that e-mail. I received those amendments two minutes ago. That's a little late.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u138	I understand your comment, Mr Vuye, but amendments can be tabled until the general discussion is concluded, which has just been concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u139	Then you'll have to send them over, won't you? How can we determine our voting behaviour at 30 seconds on amendments that we have just discovered? I'm in favour of that system, but we have to remember it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u140	We remember from this...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u141	Mr Van Hecke says they were submitted four hours ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u142	We will ensure, Mr Vuye, that amendments are forwarded in the future as they are presented. Okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u143	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 June 2017, I also propose the draft law (Mr Siegfried Bracke) amending the law of 2 March 1954 to prevent and curb attacks on the free exercise of sovereign powers established by the Constitution, No. 2531/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u144	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 June 2017, I also propose that you take into consideration the Bill (Mr.Bracke) amending the Act of 2 March 1954 to prevent and punish violations of the free exercise of sovereign powers established by the Constitution, No. 2531/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u145	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u146	The government has requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law establishing a programme for sustainable research cooperation between the federal scientific institutions and the universities, No. 2479/1. The government called for urgency in accordance with rule 51 of the Regulations when the bill introduced a program of sustainable research cooperation between federal scientific institutions and universities, No. 2479/1. I will pass the floor to the Secretary of State for Motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the FED-tWIN programme is a follow-up to the federal additional researchers. The aim of the programme is to create 125 permanent research functions. This will be done in five selection rounds with 25 FED tWIN functions each time. The entire selection procedure for these posts is more than 15 months, hence the urgency of this draft law. The scientific community, of course, wants, firstly, to follow up the old programme for additional researchers and, secondly, to recruit researchers as soon as possible under the new programme FED-tWIN.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u148	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u149	The Government also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law for the ratification of the action plans and the implementation of the security measures of Brussels Airport Company, No. 2505/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill confirming the imposition of the action plans and the implementation of the security measures at Brussels Airport Company, nr. 2505/1. I suggest that we speak with you and stand up, but I shall first give the floor to Mrs Demir for the reasons for the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft bill from my colleague, Mr Bellot. As you know, safety and security measures were imposed in the course of 2016. These should also be fully developed. The licence granted to Brussels Airport Company provides for a legal framework providing that airport charges may be adjusted in accordance with the newly imposed State security and security measures. An adjustment of airport charges is subject to the consultation of the airport companies. That consultation procedure lasts four months. An air carrier that does not agree with the amendment may lodge a complaint. It is therefore important that there is a regulatory framework for Brussels Airport Company which makes a proposal for the adjustment of tariffs. This has to be done by mid-July. In view of the date of mid-July, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Bellot, I would ask for the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u151	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u152	The Government also requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on electronic identification, No. 2512/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the Electronic Identification Bill, No. 2512/1. I'm asking the Secretary of State to justify the request for urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u153	Mr President, this is a draft law by my colleague Alexander De Croo. The draft law contains two parts. The first part concerns Chapter 2 on electronic identification, which may have full effect in Belgium. The majority of the provisions of Chapter 2 have been in force since 1 July 2016. For the second part of the design, there is an urgent need for a legal framework for electronic identification for digital government applications in Belgium. The urgent procedure is therefore called for so that the regulation can be implemented as quickly as possible in Belgium and a clear legal framework for the second part of the draft law is created.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u154	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u155	The Government also requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law amending Article 176 of the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic undertakings, No. 2520/1. The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending Article 176 of the Act of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain economic public enterprises, No. 2520/1. I will pass the floor to the Secretary of State for Motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u156	It is a draft law by Mr Bellot. Since 1997, air traffic controllers have been held in disponibility for five years before they can retire, in accordance with the 1997 Royal Decree. The costs of that scheme shall remain borne by the undertaking and shall be recorded among the staff costs at the time of the effective payment of those allowances. For the first time, in 2016, there was no unanimity within the College of Commissioners on the setting up of provisions for the costs of the Disponibility Scheme. The company auditors had also made reservations because no provision had been made for these fees. The representatives of the Court of Auditors, by analogy with previous years and in view of the principle of matching revenue and expenditure, also considered that the non-formulation of provisions was not sufficiently argued. There is therefore a need for a legal basis to put an end to legal uncertainty and to clarify that the State is not obliged to provide facilities for the end-of-life costs of the air traffic controller. The urgent need is to ensure that the auditors do not make any reservations about the figures every year. This bill is a necessary step in view of the forthcoming approval of Belgocontrol's accounts in 2017, hence the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u157	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u158	The Government has also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting a draft law amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market, No. 2528/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market, No. 2528/1. I will pass the floor to the Secretary of State for Motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a final draft law for which I would ask for urgency. The draft law provides a framework for network users who wish to freely offer their demand flexibility either directly or via an aggregator. To this end, Elia established the BidLadder platform where all market actors can offer their flexibility. This platform is operational for users connected to the transmission network on 1 July 2017 and will be open to users from 1 January 2018. Hence the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u160	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u161	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 7 June 2017. The interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, General Affairs and Public Administration of 7 June 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 219/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Isabelle Poncelet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 219/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Isabelle Poncelet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u162	Yes 83 Yes No. 66 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 149 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u163	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 146 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (2268/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (2268/4) (Mrs Els Van Hoof, Mr Franky Demon and Mrs Patricia Ceysen voted in favour)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u164	Proposals for the revision of the Constitution must be adopted by a special majority (Article 195 of the Constitution). Proposals for revision of the Constitution should be adopted by a special majority (Article 195 of the Constitution). Vote on Amendment No 4 by Hans Bonte on the only article. (2056/6) Vote on amendment No 4 by Hans Bonte to the single article. (2056/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 149 Total The quorum of those present has been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The amendment was therefore rejected. The quorum of the presences shall be reached. The majority of the 2/3 are not reached. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 5 from Stefaan Van Hecke cs on the only article. (2056/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to the single article. (2056/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[37]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 149 Total The quorum of those present has been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The amendment was therefore rejected. The quorum of the presences shall be reached. The majority of the 2/3 are not reached. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u165	Mr President, I wish to explain our vote on the amendments. We will abstain in the vote on this and all the following amendments, because we do not have time to look at them in greater detail. That way, we don't want to hit anyone in the head.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u166	I fully understand that. I have already said that from now on we will try to speed things up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u167	It is, of course, a justified remark by my fellow Members that they have not had the time to fully understand the scope of the amendments. Maybe we can give them the right time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u168	We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendments. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on the sole article. (2056/6) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to the single article. (2056/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote5) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 149 Total The quorum of those present has been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The amendment was therefore rejected. The quorum of the presences shall be reached. The majority of the 2/3 are not reached. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 10 by Olivier Maingain on the sole article. (2056/6) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Olivier Maingain to the single article. (2056/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 92 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 148 Total The quorum of those present has been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The amendment was therefore rejected. The quorum of the presences shall be reached. The majority of the 2/3 are not reached. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 7 by Olivier Maingain on the sole article. (2056/6) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Olivier Maingain to the single article. (2056/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 6) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Olivier Maingain on the sole article. (2056/6) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Olivier Maingain to the single article. (2056/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 6) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 from Olivier Maingain on the sole article. (2056/6) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Olivier Maingain to the single article. (2056/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 6) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on the sole article. (2056/6) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to the single article. (2056/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 108 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 149 Total The quorum of those present has been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The amendment was therefore rejected. The quorum of the presences shall be reached. The majority of the 2/3 are not reached. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u169	I would remind you that, in accordance with article 195 of the Constitution, a proposal for a revision of the Constitution must be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, provided that two-thirds of the members are present. I would remind you that, in accordance with Article 195 of the Constitution, a proposal to revise the Constitution may be adopted, provided that two thirds of its members are present and a two-thirds majority of its members adopt it. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No, no, ……]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 97 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 149 Total The quorum of those present has been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. Consequently, the proposal to revise Article 12 of the Constitution has been rejected. (2056/7) The quorum of the presences shall be reached. The majority of the 2/3 are not reached. Accordingly, the proposed revision of article 12 of the Constitution is rejected. (2056/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-15-54-plenair-ip173x.u170	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 22 June 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 22 June 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 22 June 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 22 June 2017, at 2.15 p.m.
