ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 22071 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u2	Minister, 8,400 cases of assault on police officers were recorded last year, including 800 beatings. You announced last June the arrival of a circular, which would have recently been sent to the public prosecutor's offices. According to the Commission, an investigation would be initiated for each attack, while verbal attacks would no longer be discontinued. Can you give us more information on the processing figures for current prosecution cases? Can you provide us with information on the implementation of this circular? Five reference magistrates will be assigned to the implementation of this project at the level of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Can you tell us more about their role and the reasons for this number? Will staff be sufficient to compensate for the increase in registered complaints and the number of investigations initiated? What other measures are planned to compensate for this increase in work? What measures are envisaged to facilitate compensation to victims as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u3	Mr Blanchart, I share your concern about the problem of attacks on police officers and on persons of a public nature in the performance of their duties. It is not possible to provide figures since the statistical data bank does not allow a distinction to be made between the occupational categories to which victims of violence belong, as referred to in articles 280 and 410bis of the Criminal Code. The application of Circular COL 10/2017 will provide information on the precise number of cases opened in the context of this issue and on the follow-up provided to them. The application of this circular to all prosecutors will allow for a uniform and firmer approach to this criminal phenomenon through the implementation of specific guidelines depending on the level of violence of the act (physical or non-physical violence, incapacity for work or not, etc.).). The circular provides for the appointment of a reference magistrate chosen on the basis of his specific experience in the field of police, such as his active participation in the networks of expertise for the College of Attorneys General or his management of the litigation relating to the discipline of police officers. He will play the supporting role and see the practical application of the circular by his colleagues at first instance, who may appeal to him in the event of a particular hesitation or difficulty. To the extent that the reference magistrate is appointed within each public prosecutor's office, the number of judges corresponds to the number of jurisdictions. The assessment of the adequacy and adequacy of the number of judges needed to manage these cases will only be possible after an initial evaluation has been carried out. The issue of compensation for victims is regulated by specific legislation, including the Police Function Act of 5 August 1992. A circular issued by the Attorney General cannot contain rules on civil rights and compensation. Another circular 3/2008 deals with violence against persons holding public office or office, as well as against persons performing public service or public service tasks in contact with the public. This circular incorporates the provisions of the Act of 20 December 2006 amending the Criminal Code as amended by the Act of 8 March 2010 on aggravating circumstances for the perpetrators of certain offences committed against certain persons of a public character and by the Act of 27 December 2012 on various provisions in the field of justice. The Criminal Code already provides for aggravating circumstances for certain offences committed against certain persons of a public nature. A legislative amendment, regardless of the circular, does not seem necessary at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u4	Minister, thank you for answering all my questions. Let us hope that the implementation of the circular will be rapid enough to respond to this request because it seems that two police officers are being attacked every day! As the former president of a rescue zone, I can assure you that the attacks and abuses against relief workers, firefighters and others are matters of concern to us in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin's 22320 expires. Questions Nos 22192 and 22193 by Mrs Ben Hamou are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u6	Madam President, Minister, the riots in Brussels on 25 November are still somewhat reminiscent. I heard on the news this afternoon that 37 people involved would be known by now. Of the 71 people who were arrested at the riots in Brussels on Saturday 25 November, a third of them would be Fleming or come from the Flemish outskirts. Only four people were arraigned by the parquet. The parquet also emphasizes, of course, that those who were released in the meantime can still be subpoenaed by, for example, the correct court. I would like to ask you a number of specific questions about this. First of all, I'm getting my grades from the press releases. Are they correct or do you have knowledge of other figures? I refer, among other things, to that figure 37. Secondly, from what municipalities are the Flemings, who would thus make up a third of the arrested rioters, coming or where do they live? A lot of commotion was made about someone from Wolvertem, who was arrested. Afterwards, another one came from Groot-Bijgaarden. That's how it went on. Third, how many of them, per municipality, are underage? Fourthly, are there, in the meantime, any elements, such as identification on camera footage or confessions, that allow further prosecution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u7	Madam President, Mr Janssens, I was granted the following information from Attorney General Delmull and the Prosecutor of Brussels, Meilleur, in connection with the riots of 25 November. Four persons have already been made available to the public, including 1 year old and 3 minors, of whom 1 was referred to the department of Dendermonde, which is the residence of the minor. Their case will certainly already have a legal effect. 16 rioters were identified, but they could not yet be apprehended. Of course, they are now being tracked down. 14 other identified persons will be examined to see if there are any indications of criminal offences during the riots and, if so, what their role was. You will understand that the state of affairs in this file is constantly changing, as is the identification of persons involved in the riots and the further court proceedings. The figure of 71 administrative arrests comes from the police forces and cannot be confirmed by the judicial authorities. The investigation is ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u8	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u9	In July 2017, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture published a public statement in response to the absence of guaranteed service in Belgian prisons during syndicated actions. It is still too often in our country that prisoners end up at strikes in inhumane living conditions, where basic issues such as plumbing, nutrition, outdoor air and contact with the family are put under pressure. Such a public statement is the toughest weapon in the Committee's hands. The Committee felt that the problems in Belgium were more serious than in all the other countries visited by the Council of Europe. Moreover, the problem has been known for years. It was first indicted by the committee in 2005. However, there is still no idea of a system of guaranteed service provision in prisons. That's why I have a few questions. What is your response to this public statement? Is there a bill coming? When will it be possible for this to be presented to Parliament? What other measures do you intend to take to address this problematic situation in the event of strikes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u10	With regard to your first question, I would like to refer to the answer given to the CPT by the Belgian Government earlier this year. In this, the government confirms its commitment to develop a legal framework for guaranteed service provision during strikes. I am indeed working on such a framework right now. This is broader than just the guaranteed service. After all, the draft law that I intend to propose regulates both the status of the penitentiary organisation as a whole and that of the prison staff. In doing so, I would like to pay particular attention to strengthening the performance and performance of the staff by not only integrating training more closely into career development, but also giving a number of incentives to alleviate absenteeism. In my view, it is not enough to provide a guaranteed service during strikes unless measures are taken to optimise the daily functioning of the prison system. I expect the draft law to be submitted to Parliament in early spring 2018. Finally, I will continue to work to ensure that sufficient resources are transferred to the penitentiary facilities, both in terms of staff and in terms of operation. There is also further focus on infrastructure and on the implementation of the master plan. All of this should ensure that the situation of detainees in Belgian cells improves and does not deteriorate again in the case of syndicated actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament 22221 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u13	Mr Minister, the land situation of the buildings now devolved to the operation of the Great Mosque in Brussels and the Islamic and Cultural Centre in Belgium is governed by a concession agreement, dated 13 June 1969, concluded for a period of 99 consecutive years. The parliamentary commission of inquiry into the attacks found that this concession had been granted in a societal, religious and institutional context which has changed considerably and fundamentally since the signing of the convention. The role of the great mosque in the spread of radical Islam, influenced by Wahhabism, and in contradiction with our democratic values has been highlighted by the State Security. In its report, the Committee recommends that the State, pursuant to article 14 of the Convention of 13 June 1969, terminate the Convention on grounds of public utility in the light of the foregoing considerations. Minister, this recommendation was issued about a month and a half ago. It was confirmed by the plenary session of the House at that time. I would like to ask you about the means used by the government to make it a reality. Which minister has been designated to follow this file? What resources have been allocated? Has a specific working group been set up? Has the termination of the agreement been notified to the authorities of the Great Mosque? If not, what blocks the decision? What can we expect from the government to achieve the recommendation of the commission of inquiry? The termination of the agreement on the basis of Article 14 opens a notice period of one year to determine the new conventional operating framework for this place with a new operator who must meet the criteria laid down by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. What measures will the government put in place during this period to ensure the transition? Has any contact been made with the Belgian Muslim Executive on this matter? Will a specific foreign financing component be included in the new convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u14	Mr Dallemagne, the federal government is currently consulting on how to implement the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks. Since the emphyteosis agreement was concluded at the time by the minister responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, it is clear that Minister Jambon and I, as minister responsible for cults, are taking the initiative on this issue. Earlier last month, a delegation of senior officials, under the leadership of the President of the Federal Public Service Foreign Affairs, explained the recommendations made by the Commission on the Great Mosque in Brussels to the President of the World Moslim League and the Director of the Islamic and Cultural Centre in Belgium. At the Belgian level, several informal consultations have already taken place. This Monday will be the first formal consultation with the offices of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister. The agenda of this meeting includes a number of questions that you are also asking yourself in order to respond appropriately to these recommendations. Thus, on the agenda are the timetable for the breakdown of the concession, the role of the EMB in the creation of a new entity and the future financing of the mosque.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u15	Thank you, Minister. I am a little surprised that it takes all this time to notify the breach of this concession agreement and that there was only a first meeting to set a timetable, almost two months after this recommendation by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. I would like to be sure that it is a matter of fully implementing this recommendation because I am now hearing that the great mosque could request its approval as a mosque. Of course, this is not at all an adequate response to the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry. So I guess we're not going to answer that request for approval. The first is to break the concession agreement and then to check with which operator and how the follow-up to the recommendations of the committee of inquiry can be effectively implemented, in particular with the Muslim community in Belgium, how it can invest this place and in what way, while respecting the criteria of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. I hear that this first working group will bring together the Prime Minister, you and Mr Jambon's representative. I would very much like to see, Monday, if I understand correctly, a more precise timetable for the implementation of this recommendation. Will we have this calendar on Monday, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u16	I hope so. In any case, every effort was made to move forward at a diplomatic level and at a Belgian level too. I therefore believe that we will achieve this. You'll know more Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u17	Will you make a communication?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u18	If applicable. As I told you, it is not obvious not to communicate afterwards. But it may be very succinct.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u20	Mr Minister, victims of intentional acts of violence, or their relatives, may, under certain conditions, request financial assistance from the federal state. When the unsub is unknown, or is found to be incompetent, the federal state contributes to the compensation of victims. To pay out the financial aid, the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors was set up. The committee shall examine whether, and for what amount, the State may intervene in the costs. Where appropriate, and the application is therefore registered, a letter from the Financial Aid Commission is received with the following reply:................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In view of our chronological dossier, it makes little sense to ask about the state of affairs as long as the period of one year and 10 months is not up. Victims have to wait for years anyway, because all appeal procedures must first be exhausted. When there is a final ruling, the Financial Aid Commission says that, because of understaffing, it can only deal with the file after a year and 10 months. I have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, are you aware of this situation in the Commission on Financial Aid? What is your position? Secondly, will you take measures to improve the workload and understaffing of the Commission for Financial Aid? What processing time are you aiming for? What will you do to eliminate this delay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the information gathered shows that it is a notification made in the spirit of transparency to the applicants at the committee. Plans were put into effect last year to address the human resources problem. The Secretariat of the Committee was extended by four staff members, by Article 2 of the Act of 31 May 2016 amending the Law of 1 August 1985 on tax and other provisions on aid to victims of intentional acts of violence. The recruitment procedure of additional staff is ongoing. The aim is, of course, the shortest possible duration of treatment, but it also depends on a number of external factors, such as the need to obtain the necessary information from the applicant, the evolution of the medical condition and so on. The reinforcement with additional staff will ensure that the treatment period can be reduced sensitively. In addition, in the course of 2017, the royal decrees of 25 April and 29 November appointed new members, which means that the committee currently has 55 members. This will also help to reduce the time limit for processing applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u22	Mr President, Minister, it is good news that people will join. Can you answer me the following? There are now 55, to how many members will one evolve? What's the timing? When are all the recruited members gonna start their jobs? Do you have any eyes on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u23	If you question me again, I will answer you in more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u24	Mr Minister, following the publication of the opinion of the High Health Council on gambling disorders, we read in the newspaper the harsh verdict of some addiction experts. Their opinion is that the Gambling Commission facilitates the gambling sector rather than controls it. They're talking about some sort of Unizo for the gambling sector. To support this, reference is made to a passage on the website of the Gaming Commission. It literally says that it is also watching over a profitable gambling sector. The fact that in its own brochure the Gaming Commission puts increasing sales figures of casinos and slot rooms in the spotlight is also questioned. It is not the first time that there has been criticism of the Gaming Commission and the ambiguous role it plays in relation to the sector it has to monitor. At the beginning of last year there was still talk about the Gaming Commission's position to allow smoking in casinos to attract more people and therefore to do more gambling. Also when the 2010 law came into being, questions arose with the motivation behind the law. For example, a representative of the Gaming Commission stated at the time that the drafting of the text was aimed at a balance between consumer protection on the one hand and the profitability of the gambling sector on the other. Firstly, what lessons do you draw from this criticism? Secondly, what are the terms of reference of the Gaming Commission and do you believe that the Gaming Commission is performing these tasks properly? Do you agree with me that at most the Gaming Commission should be involved in the solvency and not in the profitability of the sector? Thirdly, what measures will you take to limit the ambiguous role of the Gaming Commission? Fourthly, how will you ensure adequate protection of the player of games of chance and what means do you draw from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, from the report I learn that there are concerns from the Flemish academic assistance about advertising and how to deal with gambling addictions. I share these concerns, of course, and have therefore taken regulatory initiatives to limit advertising. We are currently looking at how we can provide extra protection for young people against gaming elements in video games. The Gaming Commission is composed of representatives of different ministers, so that a balance must be struck between the different existing approaches to the exploitation of games of chance, the economic interests of which form part. Legally, the contracts of the Gaming Commission are listed in Article 9 of the Gaming Act, in particular the giving of advice, the taking of administrative decisions and the control of the sector. Indeed, the Gaming Commission should not be directly involved in obtaining profits by the operators, but should check in its supervision of the law whether they are sufficiently solvent. It goes without saying that the Gaming Commission must always place consumer protection and the safeguarding of public order at the centre of its tasks. The committee should pay particular attention to the protection of minors in order to combat future gambling addictions. The resources needed for this by the Gaming Commission will be examined by mutual agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I remember that there is no figure available in relation to the resources to be provided for because there is still consultation on this issue. In addition, I would have liked to know whether you also think that the Gambling Commission strikes too much a balance between protecting those who have to come to gamble, on the one hand, and the whole sector, on the other? To my mind, along with a lot of people, the Gambling Commission still takes too much sides with those who offer gambling, while it is not at all part of its task to protect them, to check their profitability and to publish it in its own brochures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u27	Question No 22309 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question and questions No 22321 and No 22322 by Mr Philippe Pivin are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u28	Mr President, the situation in the Vervieto judicial world is particularly challenging. On several occasions, I have called the alarm bell in this commission, whether for the courthouse or the prison. The subject of this inquiry concerns Verviers' justice of the peace. The justice of the peace will leave the pension on 31 January 2018 and, according to what I have read and heard, the post has not yet been declared vacant in the Belgian Moniteur. However, the procedure can take up to 10 months. Voluntary lawyers will have to take care of urgent cases. This is a totally unacceptable situation for me, with direct consequences for the citizen but also for the credibility of our justice system! On the ground, the threats of not organising the 2018 communal elections are real and the existing justices of the peace do not intend to take over the files of the unreplaced judges. Mr Minister, I think it is urgent that the borough of Verviers becomes a priority. Can you confirm to me that the vacancy of this place will be published in the Monitor in the next few days? Do you have a solution so that the justice of the peace can be effectively replaced between January 31, 2018 and the new justice of the peace?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u29	Mr Frédéric, my services are actually informed of the departure of the current holder of the second canton of Verviers on 31 January 2018 and of the vacancy of the canton from 1 February 2018. My intention is to proceed in December with the publication of a series of posts of justices of the peace that will be vacant in the course of 2018. Of course, the provisions of the draft law currently under discussion in Parliament concerning the redistribution of judicial cantons are taken into account. The various transitional measures should be taken into account, among which the fact that the justice of the peace whose canton is abolished is reappointed to another canton on a reasoned proposal from the President and after hearing the justice of the peace concerned. The choice of vacant places to be published will obviously affect the options to find a new canton for these overnumbered incumbents and vice versa. My administration has already interviewed the heads of corps concerned in order to identify these aspects from now on with a view to publishing these vacant posts as soon as possible. The Judicial Code provides for alternate justices of the peace to temporarily replace an prevented justice of the peace. In the second canton of Verviers, four alternate justices of the peace are currently appointed. Depending on the needs of the service, the President may also delegate a justice of the peace or a judge of the police court to temporarily serve as a justice of the peace in another canton within the district. In addition, the Judicial Code provides for the possibility of appointing retired magistrates, with their consent, to replace temporarily an prevented justice of the peace. These legal possibilities or a mix of them must make it possible to fill the period between the current holder's departure and the completion of the procedure for the appointment of his successor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is my conclusion that there will be no vacancy and that the functions will be fulfilled as soon as the justice of the peace retires. I hope this will reassure the staff in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u31	Mr President, Minister, since the adoption of the Potpourri II Act, murder or manslaughter cases have largely been dealt with before a proper court. The cases previously dealt with for assists are now before a court of law. Unfortunately, this also entails unforeseen costs. In assist cases, all parties are given a free copy of the file, very necessary for the lawyers to prepare the trial. In the proper court, that free copy lapses. There someone can only get a free copy when he is weak and only at some very specific moments in the procedure. The amounts may vary, but you have to charge around EUR 30 cents so-called Registry fees per page. Such a file is often several thousand pages thick, which can lead to high costs. A ceiling of up to 1 450 euros has been set. Moreover, in any case, the public prosecutor has the file at his disposal free of charge, which is nevertheless discrimination against the other party who is sometimes unable to afford these additional costs and thus disadvantaged in the process. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, when do you intend to make judicial files digitally and free of charge? Secondly, how will there be remediation until then?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u32	Mr President, Minister, obtaining a copy of the file in matters of correctness is not always free, so it is sometimes a financially heavy pill for accused or bourgeois parties to large cases. It makes sense that the Justice Department charges for a copy. Taking a copy requires staffing and paper and makes the machines wear and tear. However, more and more files are available electronically or in part electronically. In these cases, it is no longer desirable that we should be able to demand a paper copy from the Court of Justice. I have the following questions. What's going on with JustScan, anyway? In the past there was discussion about this because some courts and courts used this to scan cases that had already passed and not new cases. Is there a policy in this area? What priorities are currently being set? In order to achieve good digitalisation, it is best to work digitally from the beginning, starting from the first document. e-Deposit could play that role. I read that e-Deposit is being rolled out at first instance in some civil courts, but not yet correctly. What is the timing for this first instance rollout for the various civil courts? Why is the e-Deposit not yet being launched in the courts of first instance? When I visited the Court of Appeal in Antwerp some time ago, I was told that, despite the existence of e-Deposit, documents are still submitted frequently by fax. Is there no possibility to enforce the use of e-Deposit?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, Mrs Lambrecht, we are working towards a fully digital criminal record. An electronic copy can then be made of that file, or even better, an online consultation by those who have the right of access will be possible. Once this has been achieved, the charge for copies will be unnecessary because only access to the file will have to be granted. To make this possible, an entire digital chain must be created. The component containing the electronic documents already exists in the JustScan application. The large scan load.... we are talking about large files... is the main reason why this project is not used intensively in all correctional offices. In order to reduce this scan burden, I invest together with the police in an e-PV-Policy database, which will contain all the police-PVs that make up these police-PVs almost 90 percent of the judicial file. From that database, all undisclosed PVs will be transferred digitally to the electronic judicial file. This project will start rolling out in the course of 2018. The conclusions made via e-Deposit will also be transferred electronically to this electronic file, without any need for scanning. The roll-out of e-Deposit is in full swing. It has already been rolled out at the level of the courts of appeal and the courts of commerce. By the end of February 2018, it will be rolled out in all peace courts and all police courts. By the summer of 2018, all correctional courts should also follow where MACH has been rolled out. MACH will be rolled out in all the correctional courts by the end of 2018. The pilot project to be able to read this judicial electronic file from a distance has also been terminated. In early 2018 we will start consultations with the bar associations to enable distance reading by lawyers. In the very short term, we will scan the files that would have entered into the old legislation before the Court of Assists and deliver a copy of it on data stick that is already possible today. Through a minor amendment of the law, the Justice Commission can eliminate the undesirable effect of the correction, namely the fact that the copies are being paid again. I've ordered my administration to draft a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u34	A bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u35	Yes, because sometimes it goes faster if you do not insist on an opinion from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u36	Do I understand, Minister, that there will no longer be a need for paying paper copies for the correction courts by the summer of 2018 and that everything should be digitally available?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u37	I think I only talked about the correct files that would otherwise have gone to assists, but I'm not sure. The correct files that came in the press last week are a special story. In assistes, because they were not supposed to be able to participate otherwise, the files were copied completely free of charge, while in the case of corrected crimes they had to pay up to a maximum of EUR 1 450, if I remember correctly. Now it is true that we will try to make these files free by means of a small legislative procedure for cases where there has been corruption and where there would have been assists in the past. That's what I said. For the rest, we hope, of course, that you will have to read in detail that we will speed up the electronic file, e-Deposit and MACH for the various courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u38	Minister, the case you have just mentioned has indeed inspired me to submit my question. I am pleased that there has been a steady evolution in the computerization of justice, even though it is still far too slow. I find it very strange that the clerks still have to copy and scan documents. The electronic signature is still a problem. Maybe that's where the knot of everything lies. In your reply you refer to the e-PV. Hopefully, this will soon become a reality in the legal system, which will allow files to exist in electronic form in the future. I am, of course, interested in the draft bill you are announcing. I myself am working on a bill which is not exactly the same as you are announcing today, but perhaps we can discuss it shortly. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u39	Minister, although the policy of worship is largely a regional competence, some aspects have remained federal. One aspect is the remuneration of the servants of the worship services. The Ministry of Justice is legally responsible for that remuneration. That is why I have put a few questions to you. How is it determined who is the servant of worship? Who's responsible for that? The worship services themselves? In the case of the Roman Catholic service, the question is then whether the dioceses are responsible for this. How is it checked that the lists of service ministers are up-to-date, so that one can see at all times who is being reimbursed as official servant of the service? Does the Ministry of Justice carry out that audit, or is it the honorary services themselves, which provide the information to your services? Finally, I believe I have understood that, specifically for the Roman Catholic service, only persons with a priesthood can be eligible to serve the service. Is that information correct? If not, who would be eligible to become the minister of worship in the Roman Catholic Church?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u40	Mrs Bellens, for the nomenclature of the functions referred to as "the servant of the honorary services," reference should be made to the Law of 2 August 1974 on the betting of the servants of the recognized services and of the delegates of the Central Free Affairs Council. That law lists the functions which can be assumed by the servants of the honorary services, broken down by recognized service. As far as the non-confessional organisation is concerned, the term representative of the Central Free Affairs Council applies. For the purposes of the Constitutional provisions relating to the independence of the services of worship and to the non-interference by the State, Article 19, 21, first paragraph, and Article 181 (1) of the Constitution, the various representative bodies shall be responsible for the free appointment and dismissal of the servants of the services of worship. While the representative bodies act as the employer, the Department of Justice intervenes only as a third-party payer. If it appears from the information provided by the representative bodies that all administrative and legal formalities have been properly completed, the competent department will instruct PersoPoint BOSA to pay the bets. It is by taking the day-to-day actions that the checks are carried out and it is ensured that only the representative bodies propose a bet of the honorary services will receive a bet charged to the public budget. The representative bodies also undertake to nominate candidates for appointments who do not receive a wager elsewhere. With regard to the various functions which can be filled as ministers of Catholic worship, I refer once again to the law of 2 August 1974, in particular Article 26. The question of the proper qualifications of candidates eligible for appointment to one of the listed posts can only be determined by the dioceses of the Roman Catholic service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u42	Minister, according to good tradition, the Court of Auditors produces an annual report, sometimes referred to as the 'Blunderbook'. This year, attention will also be paid to the food waste in Belgian prisons. Part of the stock would be lost because of poorly equipped, humid storage spaces. Another cause for the waste is a poor purchasing policy. As a result, surpluses accumulate and cannot be consumed in time. In addition, many questions are asked about the management and organisation of food distribution. For example, there is often no view of the stock so that it is not noticed when things are stolen. The destruction of spoiled products requires a complex, long-winded procedure, which does not benefit stock management. In general terms, according to the Court of Auditors, there is not enough attention to be paid to efficient and adequate procurement and retention policies in the prison and justice departments. A number of things are, of course, the result of longer-known problems, such as the undersized, decrepit infrastructure of some prisons. I have the following specific questions, Minister. What is your response to the Court of Auditors' findings on food waste in prisons? Do you agree that there is indeed a lack of food management? How do you intend to address the problems and shortcomings outlined? What problems can be addressed in the relatively short term? At what time can we expect results on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u43	My question goes in the same direction. The Court of Auditors has shown in its yearbook that there is a problem in Belgian prisons with regard to the management of food, clothing and even cigarettes. For example, the accounts do not give a correct picture of the actual state of the goods. The training of supervisors could be improved. Internal control would be inadequate. There would also be a number of problems with storage spaces. The Court of Auditors reports that all of this increases the risk of theft or embezzlement. For example, due to moisture and contamination in the storage room clothing and food supplies are no longer usable. That's why I have a few questions. Do you know this problem? Are solutions being developed to meet the criticism of the Court of Auditors about stock management in Belgian prisons? If so, what timing is envisaged for these solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u44	I would like to nuance the phenomenon of food waste which is mentioned in the Court of Auditors' report. The prisons are committed to working as efficiently as possible with the funds available for food, limited to EUR 3.71 per inmate per day. Waste is avoided as much as possible, because that is counterproductive against that background. Moreover, the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain regularly carries out checks in the kitchens and food supplies of the prison. Prisons make efforts to meet the comments and advice of the BFSA within the infrastructure options and make every effort to comply with the rules on hazard analysis critical control point. In this respect, many improvements have already been made in several establishments in recent years. Numerous training courses on this theme were organised. However, it is correct that in a number of establishments, especially the old ones with an outdated kitchen infrastructure, there is still room for improvement. With regard to the destruction of spoiled products, there is a standard procedure to be followed and to prevent spoiled products from being used in stock. This is also part of the hazard analysis critical control point procedure. The DG EPI made the procurement procedure more conclusive a few years ago, solving the problem of double orders. Other procedures, such as the management of warehouses, the organisation of internal control and the key management of warehouses, shall be regularly recalled and, where necessary, further clarified. This month, moreover, there will be another day of study for the managers and staff of the prison accounting services in this area. The repetition and clarification of procedures will produce results in the short term. Finally, there is also a call for tenders to carry out an audit of the work processes in the context of the internal food chain, with particular emphasis on the production of meals. The recommendations that will follow will then also be subject to revision. In order to improve stock management, DG EPI wishes to await the results of the federal police pilot project. This is a major project that integrates the entire logistics operation, such as the management of contracts, the preparation of a letter of order, the registration and control of deliveries and the payment of invoices for accepted deliveries. Finally, I cannot separate this dossier from the infrastructure situation in which the older prisons are mainly located. In addition to problems with, for example, moisture infiltration and stability, there is generally a shortage of premises in these establishments, often making choices in the destination of the limited spaces available. It is not illogical that priority should be given to the abandonment and maintenance of those premises which are intended for work rather than to the premises which serve as pure warehouses. I will instruct my administration to draw up the inventory of the problematic situations and to look for solutions in consultation with the Government of the Buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. The problem of waste, and certainly the waste of food, is important. It's always painful to fix food waste, and it costs money. I notice that there is a lot to be done, but I never get impressed by English-language terms that seem to be rather learned. With English terms, the problems are not necessarily solved. It's gonna take a little more than that. I wish you every success in your approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u46	Mr President, Minister, I hope that this difficult terminology will ultimately lead to the right solutions. This is ultimately the only thing that matters, that the problem is addressed and resolved. That's what's best for everyone. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u47	Mr President, Minister, in order to bring resources into the State coffers, in cooperation with your colleagues in the Interior and Mobility, you have proposed the introduction of a system called Crossborder. The purpose of this system is to facilitate the collection of fines, both for Belgian and foreign offenders. Proposals for immediate collection, transactions and other orders for payment related to a traffic law violation will now be sent on an automated basis. While the computerization of some parts of the justice system can be partially welcomed, this new system is not without consequences for offenders. Since 2001, training has been provided in some districts as an alternative to the fine, specially designed to direct behaviour towards more fair play and anticipation. More than 50,000 trainings were given by the ASBL "10 Driving", at the request of the King's prosecutors. As a result, the ASBL met 50,000 offenders for 4 hours to change their behaviour. In 2014, Mr. Wathelet had indeed adopted a law to legalize the practice. Nevertheless, the royal decree seems to be blocked by your services who fear a loss of revenue. However, you will agree, Minister, that changing behaviour is, of course, less profitable in the short term, but more favourable to society as a whole and to general safety. If the royal decree is not adopted quickly, these formations and all that they imply positive will disappear. So my questions are simple, minister. Did you realize this collateral damage to Belgian offenders? What are your intentions regarding these trainings, alternatives to fines? Do you intend to publish this royal decree that I call for my wishes? If so, when can we expect its publication? If so, how do you intend to ensure that prosecutors who wish to propose this alternative can do so effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u48	Mr President, Mr Frédéric, the Crossborder project is launched with the primary objective of enabling a better collection of driving fines by means of a large-scale automation operation. This mainly reduces the workload of police prosecutors and also allows for more strict action against foreign offenders and repeat offenders. The majority of immediate perceptions concern fines for speeding, which are now automatically generated through radars and processing centres. The full automation of the flow of immediate perceptions will come into effect in the first quarter of 2018. As part of the Crossborder project, it was chosen to match as much as possible the intervention of police prosecutors with their criminal policy, so that they could concentrate as much as possible on their key tasks. If necessary, the Public Prosecutor's Office may always decide to intervene. This option is also provided for in technical terms. In the context of this oral question, a distinction should be made between the immediate perception, which is still being sent by the police, and the transaction, which is being imposed by the prosecution. Section 65 of the Road Traffic Act provides that at the police level, training may be offered instead of immediate perception. For the purposes of this article, royal decrees have yet to be made. However, even in the absence of these royal decrees of execution, there is no reason why the Public Prosecutor's Office should not be able to appeal to the non-profit organisations mentioned in your question or to other organizations in the context of a pre-trial probation or mediation in criminal matters. In the case of a pre-trial probation, the decision to dismiss the prosecution depends on the conditions that must be met within a certain period of time. In the case of a serious driving offence, mediation in criminal matters is also possible; it provides training for the offender. The additional advantage of this option is that the victim is also involved in this procedure. The Public Prosecutor's Office is competent to decide whether or not to offer training. Article 28quater, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Investigation enshrines the principle of the appropriateness of prosecution in the head of the King's prosecutor. The Crossborder project does not affect this competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u49	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. I come to the conclusion that there is no danger for the associations that provide training. And, whether royal orders have been made or not, there is always the possibility of replacing fines with this type of training.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u50	Questions Nos 22390 and 22391 by Mrs Onkelinx were deferred. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 22393 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 22396 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 22330 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and Mr Van Vaerenbergh and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u51	Mr Janssens is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u52	Mr President, Minister, on 25 October last, the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels freed an owner of a house in my municipality of Hoeilaart for breaking down and stealing a partition from its neighbours. The President of the Court found it necessary to accuse the police and the neighbors of racism in his verdict. I'll give you the facts first. The acquitted suspect owns a house in Hoeilaart but lives in Wezembeek-Oppem. He bought this place a few years ago, and since day one, he's been challenging the land border with the neighbors. The district agent arrived at the scene at the request of that owner and found that the border posts had not been removed, but were simply overgrown. The neighbors then placed a fence, according to the plan attached to their notarial deed. One morning the fence was gone. They called the police and the police did an investigation. After viewing ANPR camera footage and the like, a search was carried out in Wezembeek-Oppem, i.e. in the home where the acquitted suspect lives. That's where pieces of the taken fence were found. The judgment of the court states that the man from Wezembeek-Oppem is the victim of a form of racism because of the neighbors and the police, who would have difficulties with the fact that a French-speaking Belgian with foreign roots would settle in Hoeilaart. I think that these statements by the chairman are completely misguided; they bear witness to a very unprofessional behavior. A judge and a court are supposed to be objective and make judgments based on file knowledge. Minister, Lady Justitia has been blindfolded for a reason, it doesn't matter who stands in front of her. What different possibilities do you see to start an investigation into this statement? Will you initiate an investigation into content and form in this case with a rather bizarre ruling? Do you think that in general there is a need for a change of attitude in a number of Brussels courts as regards facts taking place in the Brussels border? Will you ask the Supreme Court of Justice to launch a special investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u53	Mr Vandenput, I can usefully refer you to the answers I gave in plenary on 30 November to questions by Mrs Pas and Mr Vuye. As you know, as Minister of Justice, I must refrain from commenting on judgments. What I personally think doesn't really matter here. Therefore, I can only inform you that, after consultation between the Prosecutor of the King of Halle-Vilvoorde and the Attorney General of Brussels, it has decided not to appeal against these judgments. The judgments in question do not show that the contested judgments of the court were decisive in deciding on the acquittal. The Attorney General informed me that he would write to the President of the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels, through the first President of the Court of Appeal, concerning certain judgments which he considered inappropriate. As you know, as Minister of Justice, I am not a disciplinary officer with regard to the magistrates of the seat. I cannot take any disciplinary action or make any disciplinary assessment. I repeat that any citizen may address complaints relating to the operation of an individual magistrate to the Chief Constable of the Court. Where appropriate, a general complaint about the operation of a court may also be lodged with the Supreme Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u54	Minister, I have heard your reply well in the plenary to which you refer, but I was hoping to get more information now. You have given it to me, for which I am grateful. Last week, at the zonal security council in our police area, I also saw the prosecutor telling me that he would direct a writing on the matter. I hope it's gonna do something. However, I know from informal sources that there is a major problem in that court, in the sense that there is a form of antipathy against the Brussels border. I therefore believe that there is a need for a change of attitude. I understand that you cannot remedy this in your capacity as Minister. I will therefore address other people, perhaps the neighbours, to make a complaint, so that the rotten apple, or the rotten stain, in the magistrate, is dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u55	Mr President, I would like to comment on this. Mr Vandenput, the problem is not solved by a possible further division of the arrondissement, where there would be a court for Halle-Vilvoorde, which would no longer be the Flemish court of Brussels, and for French speakers the French court of Brussels. Even in the case of a complete division, French speakers on the fringes, as for all citizens in this country, may ask to be heard before the nearest court of the other language role if they do not understand the language properly or are not properly mastered as a suspect. The person who was the suspect in this case could therefore always be heard and tried by the French-speaking court in Brussels at the time of a complete division of the district, unless the language legislation is substantially amended, because it is closest to his place of residence. I would like to stress this because sometimes people pretend that the split would provide the solution. Without wishing to take a position on the further division, I can only say that this problem would arise in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u56	Minister, I am glad that you mention that. I deliberately did not include it in my question or in my reply. I am on the same page, however, in the sense that a division of the courts would not have changed the judgments of the judge. Nor am I in favour of further splitting those courts and setting up a separate court for Halle-Vilvoorde. As I said, the problem lies with the mentality of some judges. Thank you for your clarification, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u57	Debates of the European Parliament 22485 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u58	Mr Minister, I would like to see an initial assessment of a measure that you announced earlier this year, that of the source of funding for non-profit associations. I would recall that one of the items that had been put on the government's agenda in the fight against terrorism was to make the work at the NSO level more transparent. The ASBLs are a series of associations, ranging from football clubs to mosques. I would like to recall what you said: "At present, the NSOs are not subject to almost any obligation in this regard. The Minister must give his approval only in the event of a donation of a value greater than or equal to 100 000 euros, made by notarial act. But the measure does not concern hand-made donations, bank transfers and donations between legal persons. That is why I wish, by this royal decree, to change the rules of the game so that each ASBL has the obligation to indicate in its annual accounts the financing received and the identity of the donors." Minister, a year later, what is the status of this measure? What do you get from it? What about associations that have not fulfilled their obligations? Have any measures been taken? If so, which ones and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u59	Mr Kir, I have prepared a draft bill which provides, in essence, that all non-profit associations, whatever their purpose, must keep a register of incoming and outgoing donations from EUR 5,000. The register shall state in particular the name, first name and domicile of the donor or the legal form and address of the beneficiary's registered office. On an oral or written request, associations shall immediately grant access to the register of donations to the competent authorities, administrations and services, including judicial authorities and officials legally authorized to do so. They will also be required to provide copies or extracts of this register to these bodies free of charge upon request. The NSAs sector was involved in the development of this proposal. This regime is currently being discussed within the government. My goal is to forward this project to the Council of State in early 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u60	I think things are clear. In fact, the project is not underway. It will be the subject of intense work within the government and discussions in parliament. We will therefore have the opportunity to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u61	Minister, the circular of 18 August 2017 on the connection of municipalities to the Central Judicial Case provides that: "As of 1 January 2018 at the latest, all extracts of criminal records intended for private individuals will have to be issued on the basis of the data contained in the Central Judicial Case, which means that the communal criminal records will cease to exist and will be transformed into counters of the Central Judicial Case at the municipal level." The same circular also states that: "On a date yet to be specified but no later than 31 December 2017, the indictments should no longer be sent to the communes but only to the Central Judicial Case, by electronic means. It is the Central Judicial Case that will now serve as a single source for municipal administrations with regard to citizens' criminal history." We're in mid-December and on the ground, we're still a long way from it. It appears that the information contained in the Central Judicial Case is either incomplete or non-existent. The services responsible for feeding the Central Judicial Case are overwhelmed, and they are no longer able to cope with the large volume of data transmitted by courts and tribunals, particularly in correctional matters. As a result, municipal administrations are still often obliged to provide information extracted from communal criminal records. Minister, what will happen on January 1, 2018? Will the municipalities still be able to issue records from their own databases, or will it be necessary to issue extracts exclusively from the Central Judicial Case? Will the dispatch of the conviction papers to the communes cease from that date? Like police courts, when can correctional courts use the Mach application to transmit their conviction reports? Given the difficulties encountered on the ground, do you intend to review the timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u62	Kir, on 1 January 2018, the municipal administrations will issue all the extracts of the criminal record on the basis of the Central Judicial Case. The production of criminal records will be based exclusively on the Central Judicial Case database. The municipalities will no longer be able to do so from their own databases. The communes will no longer receive a report of convictions from 1 January next. Conviction ballots will only be sent to the Central Judicial Case on the basis of which the Central Judicial Case will record the information, which will be available to the municipal administrations. No date has yet been set for the automatic feeding of the Central Judicial Case by the correctional courts. The electronic feeding of the Judicial Case by the correctional courts will likely begin in the first quarter of 2018, precisely with all the correctional courts in which Mach is deployed. By the end of 2018, the deployment will be realized in all correctional courts and the 100% electronic feeding of the Judicial Case by the correctional courts will be a reality. This will be a significant reduction in the workload for correctional transplants and the criminal record service. My department is making every effort to carry out this project and to ensure that the extracts of the criminal record can be issued by the municipal administrations in the best conditions by 1 January. To this end, I sent circular 260 of 17 August to the judicial authorities reminding them of the guidelines to be applied in connection with the connection of the municipalities to the Central Judicial Case. This includes information to be transmitted to the Central Judicial Case and deadlines for transmission. I have asked my services to communicate clearly to the communes the changes made as of 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have to admit I'm pretty worried because you're confirming the calendar today. From 1 January onwards, the Central Judicial Case will have to be completed. According to the information that I have received, there is currently a problem at the staff level and at the IT level. It is impossible to encode the 200 or so elements of the conviction and everything that appears there a day. It is therefore impossible, I am told, on the side of the Central Judicial Case, to encode and record all these elements. I'm worried. That would mean that from 1 January we will address the Central Judicial Case, which does not have all the information and does not have the capacity to encode all convictions. As a result, municipalities will be obliged to issue criminal records that do not take into account the reality of our courts and tribunals. Minister, I invite you to be particularly careful in the progress of this matter. Would it not be appropriate to use language with the administration to check whether the Central Judicial Case is now in a position to function? It is important to enquire about it and to be sure that this will work. I would not like to be held responsible at the level of local administrations, which will tomorrow be blamed on the municipalities for issuing extracts of criminal records for persons who have been convicted and for whom we could not have been able to obtain information. It is clear that as of 1 January 2018, the indictment ballots will no longer reach the communes. Minister, I am asking you today to take a good look at what is happening and to speak as quickly as possible, before the end of the year, before we go too far in a direction that could cause real problems in the issuance of criminal records.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u64	Mr President, Minister, I am talking about an innovation here, namely the creation of an administrative centre for the management of crime, in the city of Hasselt in the province of Limburg. When asked a few minutes ago, the Minister of the Interior explained to me that such a pilot project exists in the province of Namur and in the province of Antwerp. It is a pilot experience of an administrative approach to organised crime. We know how essential this struggle is. The idea is to create a new centre of expertise and information of borough (ARIEC). The model proposed by the Minister of the Interior is to have teams of three people: a coordinator, a lawyer and an information management specialist. This team is at the disposal of the mayors to supply them with information from the inspection and security services in specific files and to assist them in setting up coordinated control actions in certain stores, establishments horeca, or even in connection with events. Minister, would we be able to hear your feelings about the broad lines, the modalities and the administrative recommendations of this project? Do you have any idea of the evolution of organised crime in Belgium and mainly in the Brussels Region? What is the trend from 2014 to the present?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u65	Mr President, Mr Kir, before getting a specific idea of the phenomenon of organised crime in Belgium, it should be noted that the last annual national report on organised crime dates back to 2010. Every two years, the Federal Police develops a report on organised crime in Belgium for internal dissemination and police purposes. It therefore deals purely and simply with organized crime, which is registered by the police. The latest figures available are for 2015 with feedback in 2016. There are a total of 251 organized crime cases, including 72 new cases opened in 2015. The boroughs with the highest number of cases are Brussels and Antwerp, with 65 and 61 cases respectively. However, the trend is declining. In the 2016-2019 National Security Plan, the chapter "Approach to police missions directed towards groups of perpetrators" also states that the federal police continue to contribute to the European image of the threat to organised crime in Europe. In our globalised society, organised crime does not stop at national borders, but rather benefits from the free movement of people, goods and services in our single European market. For this reason, it seems desirable to me first of all to check to what extent a new reporting of organised crime in Belgium is needed and whether it can still be an added value vis-à-vis the annual report on the European image of the threat – Serious and Organized Crime Threat Assessment Report. Once again, I have to use an English language, which I would like to apologize for. With regard to the centres of expertise and information of boroughs which have been set up by my colleague, the Minister of the Interior, with the support of the prosecution offices in Antwerp and Limburg, I would like to point out that these centres must ensure that criminal organisations in certain local sectors are detected by radar and that they are apprehended both at administrative and judicial level. An adequate local image must lead to actions both through administrative repression, such as targeted controls within certain sectors and withdrawals of permits for certain holdings and establishments, and by judicial instructions under the responsibility and direction of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u66	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u67	Mr President, Minister, according to the European report on drugs, published last 28 November by Europol and the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, drug trafficking on the hidden face of the Internet, the darknet, represents a growing threat against which Europe must deploy more resources. Indeed, according to the European Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dimitris Avramopoulos, "we need to be a step ahead of criminals. That is why we are stepping up our efforts to combat illicit drugs and we are focusing on cybersecurity." Moreover, according to the Director of the Drug Observatory, Alexis Goosdeel, "With a few clicks, buyers can easily obtain any type of drug, whether synthetic drugs, cannabis, cocaine, heroin, or a series of new substances (...), which poses a threat to the health and safety of citizens". Minister, I imagine you have heard of this report. What measures are being taken to control and combat drugs, particularly those sold via the darknet? What are the financial and personnel resources at your service level? How many criminal proceedings have been initiated by the Public Prosecutor's Office in this regard? Has there been a significant increase in the number of procedures and the amount of drugs intercepted from 2014 to date?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u68	Mr President, Mr Kir, both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Federal Judicial Police are informed of this phenomenon which he is working on every day. Several new forms of narcotics are marketed almost exclusively on the Internet and, for the most part, on the darknet. This type of investigation is entrusted to specialized computer crime units (CCU) and to the drug units of the Federal Police. However, it is not possible to provide the figures relating to the number of files, given the short period of time, on the one hand, and the technical constraints of the databases, namely the absence of registration of this type of specific modus operandi, on the other. Transactions that go hand in hand with the illegal trade of the darknet usually take place through virtual currencies. For this reason, the Central Seizure and Confiscation Board has established a procedure to collect and manage virtual currencies confiscated from information and judicial instructions. This bill was voted on in committee yesterday. At present, I am working to establish a legal framework to expand the existing cooperation obligation of the financial sector vis-à-vis the Public Prosecutor's Office, to also include platforms that facilitate transactions using virtual currencies. For the moment, I am aware of two drug trafficking files via the darknet, in which virtual currencies have been confiscated. The law of 25 December 2016 adapting the specific methods of research provides for expanded possibilities for the police to infiltrate and make findings under a fictitious identity on the Internet, including the darknet, subject to authorization by the Public Prosecutor's Office. This option is particularly useful in the fight against this illegal drug trafficking. The necessary measures shall be taken in connection with the implementation of this Law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u69	Mr.President, Minister, according to a press article, the number of minutes issued for possession of weapons and explosives increased by 19% between 2014 and 2016. These figures are particularly worrying. According to figures provided by the Federal Police, 2,520 PVs were prepared in 2016 for possession of weapons and explosives, compared with 2,048 in 2014, an increase of 19%. However, these figures should be nuanced as they cover all types of weapons, including firearms, grenades, batons, tasers, peppersprays and all types of explosives. The questions I would like to ask you are as follows. Do you confirm the figures published in the press and issued, according to the press article, by the police services? If these are not correct, I would like to hear them from your mouth. What do you think is the trend for 2017? What lessons do you learn from this increase in weapons in Belgium, knowing that according to the answer to my parliamentary question of 20 September to your colleague in the Committee on the Interior, a decrease in arms trafficking in 2016 seemed to be taking place instead? There are, therefore, clearly two contradictory elements. I thank you already for the answers you will give, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u70	Mr Kir, it should be noted that in the article in question, taken from La Dernière Heure, the figures quoted do not concern the national territory but seem to concern only the Brussels police areas. Given the short period of time I was given to answer your question, I was unable to verify the statistics published in the press. However, the police inform me that the number of minutes relating to the possession of weapons for the whole of Belgium is as follows: 10,520 in 2013, 10,230 in 2014, 10,115 in 2015 and 10,001 in 2016. You can see that the national figures available to the police do not reflect the trend referred to in your question, but rather reflect a decline. It is dangerous to base conclusions on the number of PVs written. In particular, we can mention the increased attention of police and firearms prosecutors, which is one of the priorities of the security plan. In addition, these figures may result from differences in registration practice. Moreover, the number of PVs does not necessarily correspond to the number of legally held weapons or the trafficking of weapons in our country. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the arms bill, which has just been passed by the Justice Committee, provides for a period of regularization which is intended to bring as many weapons as possible out of the illegal circuit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u71	Minister, thank you for all these specific answers. I understand that the delay you had was short. I therefore propose, Mr President, Mr Minister, to ask you a written question on the real figures for Brussels. Starting from these, I will make myself a better opinion to eventually question you again, in a global way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u72	Mr President, Minister, for more than twenty years, the Vias Institute has been providing training to convicted offenders in the context of alternative sentences. During these trainings, their trainers interactively raise awareness of the risks associated with their behaviour among small groups of participants and jointly seek alternatives to this behaviour. Since 2012, the Vias Institute has been providing a separate module on drugs in circulation in some districts. We are one of the few European countries to provide this type of training, which we can be proud of. More than 1,100 candidates have already followed her. An analysis of their profile shows that more than half of them were between the ages of 18 and 25. In three quarters of cases (74%), they were convicted of driving cannabis. In addition, 12 per cent had taken amphetamines and 9 per cent had taken cocaine. Minister, what other specific measures have you taken since 2014 to combat the rise in driving offences under the influence of drugs? What are the figures on the use of alternative sentences for the judicial district of Brussels from 2014 to the present? Do these penalties have an impact on recidivistic behaviour? What budget is planned to support these?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u73	Mr President, Mr Kir, with regard to the question of measures taken to combat the increase in driving offences under the influence of drugs, new legislation is being prepared to detect more effectively substances that influence driving ability. Alternative penalties, which consist of training provided, may be organised in the context of probationary suspension, probation or autonomous probation. As you know, it is not possible to provide figures in such a short time frame. The impact of these penalties on the behaviour of repeat offenders falls within the competence of the Minister of Mobility. For 2018, the Justice budget for financial assistance to organisations for the recruitment of staff to support alternative judicial measures in the field of road traffic amounts to €1,976,000. For subsidies to cities and municipalities for this recruitment, the amount is EUR 5,725,000.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u74	Minister, thank you for your specific answers. In the same way, I will ask a written question to receive the answers on alternative sentences from 2014 to the present day for the judicial district of Brussels. In addition, I will not hesitate to ask the question to your colleague in charge of Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u75	Minister, the FPC Ghent opened its doors to 264 male internees in autumn 2014. Since the last summer, interned people can also visit the FPC Antwerp. There is room for 182 patients, including 18 women. In an FPC, patients live in a secure and safe environment, keeping risk factors as low as possible, reducing the risk of recurrence. The aim is to allow them to flow to a less secure environment in the external care circuit, or possibly back to society, albeit under supervision. In the FPC Gent, only 34 patients have been contracted since the opening. For 118 patients, a request for admission was submitted to several external care institutions. A refusal has already been received for 83 patients. For the other 35 it is currently waiting for an answer. However, in the previous legislature, both the FPS Justice and the FPS Health Coordinators were appointed to work closely together to develop the external care circuit for interns. Mobile and switching teams are also used to develop healthcare pathways, so that patients could find themselves in an appropriate treatment and care environment after the outflow. First of all, how is it that aftercare and outflow to medium or low-security centres are apparently difficult at the moment? Secondly, what are the findings of the coordinators on this? Do you see any solutions for this? How will you possibly deal with Minister De Block?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u76	Ms Uyttersprot, the operator of the FPC Gent should periodically report to the follow-up committee, including a representation from the FPS Justice and Public Health Department, on the notifications made by the FPC with a view to achieving follow-up routes for interned persons residing in the FPC Gent and found ready to drain, as well as on the actual realised outflow in the FPC Gent. In these quarterly reports, the FPC concludes that there is a certain imbalance in the ratio between the number of notifications and the number of patients that could effectively flow to a follow-up facility. The FPC Gent reports to various sectors and settings. Some chain partners have so far found it difficult to accommodate interned persons who are staying in an establishment such as an FPC targeting interned persons with high risk status, or who need an increased security framework. The operator shall periodically consult with the care coordinators and network partners so that a smooth flow to the next steps of the external care circuit can be organised. In this respect, the coordinators and the FPC partners have a common mandate and the coordinators are involved in finding alternative notification options. The path to a care circuit that is free from obstacles to the maximum possible reintegration of interned patients will be a path of perseverance on different axes. There is the further roll-out of the Master Plan Internment, which will offer additional external notification opportunities, with numerous additional places in the course of 2018. Heil can also be found in the initiatives that will be taken from the Flemish Agency for Persons with Disabilities, specifically for the target group of interns. Finally, efforts are also being made to intensify cooperation with psychiatric hospitals in East and West Flanders. The cooperation with my colleague from the Public Health Office is a common thread through the approach to the phenomenon of internment in general and manifests itself in the additional initiatives we have taken together so far. However, the history of internment has been one of decades of neglect. An initiative close to my heart and the implementation of an announcement in my justice plan, is the establishment by April 2018 of a special unit for interns with intellectual disabilities in Camillus Bierbeek.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u77	Minister, you are quite right to say that there has been decades of neglect in the area of interned and internment. It is good for you to effectively persist in putting an end to it, the sooner the better. It is clear that you are working on this. In any case, the forensic psychiatric centers must be flowing institutions that avoid the emergence of frustration due to slow flow into interned people or that they would be faced with the same problem of hopelessness, which they also know in prison. There are apparently several initiatives around new places, which should improve the outflow. I also recall from the hearings on Potpourri III that Professor Cosyns, if I remember correctly, suggested that we also look at the thinking path to bring the FPC Aalst, which would seem to be high security, to medium security and to allow for a flow there too. We can only welcome the perseverance in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u78	Mr President, Minister, in its 2016 annual report, the Federal Ombudsman recommends that "an external and independent supervisory body be provided for every forensic psychiatric centre, as provided for in the 2014 Internment Act." That's a quote. Currently, there is a supervisory body for the various psychiatric departments and criminal institutions, but the law does not yet provide for this for the FPCs. Given the specific nature of a forensic psychiatric center, which mixes care and a form of captivity, it is located in a legal twilight zone. The audit of the Health Inspectorate in Flanders also shows that the internal legal status of interns is not sufficiently regulated by law. However, Belgium co-signed the optional protocol to the UN Convention against Torture in 2005, but that has not yet been ratified. The reason for this would be that there is no agreement yet between the federal state and all the Länder to set up such a prevention mechanism. Minister, do you have any knowledge of well-founded complaints from interns about their legal status? In the meantime, has there been any consultation with the Länder on this matter? If so, can you give an update on this? If no, are consultations foreseen? Do you have an idea of a possible legislative initiative if there is a need to do so? If so, how will you proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u79	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, as a general rule, complaints from interns who are addressed to external bodies are being discussed in the womb of the follow-up committee at the FPC. That committee, composed of representatives of the FPS Public Health, the FPS Social Affairs and the FPS Justice, shall review the complaints received in accordance with the domestic regulations applicable within the FPC. It is the task of the follow-up committee to further examine the merits of the complaints, to verify their conformity with operating obligations and to propose solutions. In addition, the FPC also has an internal procedure to deal with complaints. Indeed, the provision of such a procedure was also part of the procurement contract. Questioning teaches me that the follow-up committee has not yet declared any complaints well founded. According to the Internment Act, the interned person has a subjective right to care. In view of the emphasis on the care aspect within the internment law, I would like to consult with the follow-up committee, in which the FPS Health and the Flemish Health Inspectorate are also represented, in order to determine how they carry out their supervisory tasks in the regular psychiatric care institutions, more specifically regarding the complaint treatment. In the light of the results of the consultation, I will then evaluate whether and what initiative I can take to establish a complaint handling mechanism that can support the internal conflict settlement system as it exists within the FPC.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u80	Mr Minister, I note that no valid complaints have been received at the moment and that further initiatives may be taken after the follow-up committee has been consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u81	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Yüksel converted 22513 into a written question. Mr Blanchart attends another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u82	Mr President, Minister, at the end of 2015, the Marche-en-Famenne prison started a pilot project in which four prisoners from prison were able to work as a call centre employee, which is apparently a bottleneck profession. Since the end of October 2017, five prisoners from Beveren prison have also been recruited by SoServices in collaboration with the public service Cellmade to conduct market or satisfaction surveys. Using the secure software system Prison Cloud appear on the screen phone numbers of people who need to be called. Inmates can then read the questions to be asked on the screen. Now that the project in Beveren is running for about a month, I would have liked to ask the following questions. How were the detainees participating in the project selected? Did the selection take place on the basis of an application? If so, how many candidates were there for the five jobs? Were they trained to do the job properly? How is it organised in concrete terms? Is it a number of hours a day or a number of hours a month? How does the monitoring of implementation take place? Apparently there are mystery calls. Is that gonna be okay? How'd the first month go? How is the project experienced by both SoServices and the inmates themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u83	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, the project was launched in November 2017 after training and selection discussions had taken place at the end of September and October. Twelve hours of training were allocated per prisoner. There were a dozen candidates for five positions. The remuneration received by prisoners for the job is 3 euros. More in detail, I can give you the following explanations about the preparation and functioning of the call centre. Prescreening was carried out by local management and psychosocial services. Then Cellmade's employees held talks with the inmates. They were screened for communicative skills, courtesy, customer friendliness and calmness, for result orientation and on their PC skills. A dozen candidates were heard, five of whom were selected. Training was provided by the company SoServices, which embraced the general theoretical background of the company, philosophy and vision as well as concrete call training with example exercises. Thanks to the Prison Cloud system, the prisoners can perform the work from their cells. Phone calls are being set up in the waiting list. They can only call when the calls are available. Currently, the number of hours is still limited. The prisoners themselves cannot be called. They see a number of phone calls ready. However, the data are masked. The scripts are written out in detail and linked to a timing. It is important to monitor both quality and safety. For example, a conversation that lasts longer than previously measured can cause a flashing light to light. You can also listen in and mystery calls will be made, with Cellmade or the company itself being called, to see if everything is being executed correctly. The company's back office, finally, follows the calls. It is still too early to take stock of this Beveren call center project. However, we can point out that no particular problems have been observed. Five inmates have been working there since the beginning of the project and this figure has not changed yet. No new potential customers have emerged to date. It is indeed planned to extend this initiative to other prisons, but the timetable is not yet known. We planned to evaluate this first experiment in Beveren in spring 2018 before extending this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic780x.u84	It was clear, Minister. Thank you.
