ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u1	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, last February, a technical bug would have affected bpost computer services and thus delayed the payment of pensions for former civil servants. It would appear that almost 100,000 of them, who are usually used to receiving their retirement allowance at the end of the month, would not have been credited to their bank account on February 28th. This is an unfortunate situation since some automatic levies such as invoices and rents have obviously had to be carried out. On the bpost side, the services made amends honorable, recognizing the problem and apologizing. In this connection, I quote the spokesman for the public company: "a computer file has remained stuck and could not be processed. The problem was solved this Wednesday morning, so that payments can be made. This is the first time something like this has happened." In the face of this exceptional problem, postal services have stepped up their efforts to find quick solutions, which should be welcomed. However, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions: are you aware of the specific reasons behind this incident? According to your information, how many citizens have been affected by this situation? Finally, what measures have been taken by the public enterprise to avoid any new problems of this kind? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u2	Thank you for your question. bpost informs us that at the end of February, there were indeed problems with the payment of pensions of some civil servants due to a computer file that remained stuck. The problem was resolved on Wednesday, March 1, so payments could be made. Some officials received the money that afternoon. The others received their pension by Thursday 2 or Friday 3 March at the latest. Some 100,000 civil servants were involved in all sectors. An investigation showed that this was not a structural problem but undoubtedly an isolated incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u3	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for these points of answer. Indeed, an incident can happen. The fact that it is not structural is a good thing. I welcome the speed of reaction since, as you have just mentioned, a part of it has already been paid in the afternoon, which is positive and to be remembered in relation to this incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u4	Last February, the Christian union reportedly shed light on recurring errors in paying the wages of bpost workers. Indeed, the wage management system introduced about a year ago would be the source of these problems. To cite a few examples, some staff members would have been awarded a salary of 650 euros, while half-time jobs would have been paid on the basis of a full-time salary calculation. On the other hand, the pay slips themselves would be problematic. To illustrate this, the case of a co-worker who was allegedly refused a bank loan because of documents with incomprehensible data was cited. In the face of these many difficulties, the spokesman acknowledged that, like any new system, the bpost system has experienced some youth problems, but that from now on everything would be done to better manage the situation. Deputy Prime Minister, it is therefore essential for a public body as important as bpost to be able to ensure that the salaries of its employees are fully paid. In this regard, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Can you tell us the state of the situation? According to your information, do any problems still exist and, if so, what steps have been taken by bpost to overcome the difficulties encountered? Have you had the opportunity to meet with staff representative organisations in order to communicate to them the measures adopted by the bpost services?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u5	First of all, bpost is an autonomous company listed on the stock exchange, free to determine its commercial and operational strategy. It is not for me to interfere in the day-to-day management of the company. For your information, bpost announces that a new benefit management and compensation calculation system was introduced in 2016. The introduction of a new benefit management system was necessary to comply with social legislation, in particular with regard to the recording and compensation of overtime and overtime. This new system has shown certain youth diseases, particularly in the area of the treatment of absences, rest or leave. These problems were addressed one after the other. Priority was given to issues that have a direct impact on wages. In early 2017, errors and difficulties were encountered in the display of leave meters and the introduction of leave requests. Currently, most of these problems have been resolved, but some leave meters still contain errors. Technical problems are at the root of this. bpost makes every effort to ensure that leave meters display the correct data as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u6	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u7	Mr Vanden Burre, as Mr Calomne was present earlier, I offered to ask him his three questions. So go for your third question, Mr. Calomne. We will then return to your question, Mr. Vanden Burre.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vanden Burre. Deputy Prime Minister, the issue of the taxation of robot work is regularly debated. On the one hand, some scientists would project, over the next 20 years, the disappearance of 30 to 70% of our company's jobs due to the use of robots. With this in mind, a value added tax created by robots, software and other algorithms that replace employees would support, on the one hand, the conversion of dismissed employees with a view to finding a digital job and, on the other hand, financial support for those who would not find it. Unlike these theses, other observers believe that taxing robots would be counterproductive. Indeed, there is a risk that this tax burden will leak businesses and many jobs to other countries. While technological innovations could be seen to reduce human labour and wages, the picture may not be as bleak as it seems. In fact, it would appear that, tendingly, the countries that automate and automate rapidly are progressing in terms of employment. In this regard, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. At the outset, how do you look at this case? Are you in favour of taxing robots and similar machines? At a time when robotization and empowerment are ubiquitous in our society, can you tell us whether company support measures are currently planned, in consultation with your government colleagues, in terms of technological transition and innovation? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u9	Mr Calomne, at the outset, I think that the taxation you are talking about is a very bad idea. I'm against it. In practice, I think it would be very difficult because it is not possible to answer clearly the question "what are we going to tax?" There is no clear definition of what a robot or similar technology is. Any technology replaces or complements human activity. Should we consider as a robot a free digital translation tool for example? The biggest mistake in this debate, in my view, is that we tend to oppose the human being with the machine. It's not like that and it never was. In history, there has always been complementarity between human beings and technology. It is this complementarity that must be used. This is not a debate against each other. The perspective that is used too often is wrong, in my opinion. This idea is based on the principle that technology replaces work, as I said. That's not true. It must be recognised that this is a fairly widespread feeling; according to a survey carried out by the European Commission, 70% of Europeans fear that the net effect of automation will be the destruction of jobs. The right level to consider the risk or potential of automation is not at the job level but at the level of each task in a job. For each task, technology can have two effects: substitution or complementarity. Some jobs will disappear completely. The OECD estimates in a recent study that 7% of jobs were at risk of complete substitution in Belgium. For many jobs, complementarity dominates. Humans are not replaced by machines but the nature of the job changes. For example, small robots produced by the company Zora Robotics help kines do exercises with elderly people in nursing homes. These robots don't replace the kineers but change their job. Complementarity versus substitution is not something to suffer. We need to maximize the potential for job creation by equipping our workforce with skills that maximize human added value in relation to machinery. For example, in terms of hard skills, basic or advanced skills, but also soft skills, for example, learning to continuously learn, being creative, communicating, managing emotions, etc. Last year, we launched the digital tour, which brings together several independent entrepreneurs, at various interactive information evenings dedicated to the growth opportunities offered by digital technology. These tours were carried out in partnership and in consultation with several actors from the Regions as well as the private sector, including Agoria, FEB-VBO, UCM, Unizo, UWE and VOKA. Furthermore, in order to cope with this inevitable automation, I am aware that it is imperative to train workers in the jobs of tomorrow, so that they can prepare themselves and adapt to technological developments as best they can. In this context, I commissioned my administration to create an interactive and didactic tool to identify knowledge of Belgians in digital matters. The objective will be to assess the level of understanding, digital skills and, where appropriate, to encourage citizens to improve their knowledge and fill gaps. Finally, I hope that workers will be made aware of the acquisition of skills and will be able to adapt more easily to the technological changes that will affect their company. We are already living in a world where automation and technology are important. The level of activity has never been so high. Those who say it will lead to less work and more unemployment are wrong; this is not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u10	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your positive and optimistic response. I accept the initiatives you have taken and can only encourage you to do so. Indeed, it is not a question of suffering things but of anticipating them at best and of making what some feel like a fear, an opportunity. A little like the collaborative economy for which you have set up a framework at the government level: the collaborative economy is indeed complementary to the circuits of the traditional economy. Of course, both can be coexisted. The same is true of this debate. In addition to robotics, the work that can be done automatically or digitally, there can be added value in terms of human capital. It is indeed true that we can both automate or automate and have sustained dynamics in terms of employment. Thank you for this positive approach to this issue. We will continue to follow him because this is a subject that still has a lot of future ahead of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u11	Before I turn to my question, I think that the debate we have just had on Mr Calomne's question is absolutely fundamental to the future of employment and the economy in our country. I do not fully agree with your answer. That said, the debate on the taxation of robots is not a white or black debate. There is a real substantive debate to have. I myself couldn't say if I'm 100% for or against. In any case, I wanted to say that it is worth organising a broader debate on this. Perhaps Mr. President can relay that. I think it should be a real exchange of views with experts. It's fundamental. If the politicians don't get it, we'll run after it again. And I don't think anyone has any interest in it, whatever party we belong to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u12	Minister, I already asked you a few months ago about the relocation of part of the bpost IT service. At the end of the year, there had been the first revelations in the press. You said there would be no outsourcing. Finally, there was one and 200 employees in Belgium were going to be victims of these decisions. They were independents, Belgian consultants who were to be replaced by Indian IT consultants. This outsourcing will take place through the Frankfurt-based Infusys Limited and Tata Consultancy Services Belgium, headquartered in Zaventem. They are two European companies whose parent company is established in India, a country where the work is also carried out on behalf of bpost. Beyond the fact that you guaranteed us in November that there would be no relocation of bposts to India, there are still many points that are not clear in what appeared in the press at the time and in what you said about this issue during our last debate in committee. More specifically, you say that one of the Indian companies employs nearly 1,200 people in Europe, among others in France, Switzerland and Belgium, without specifying exactly how much in Belgium. In addition, it is reported that these two companies have their headquarters in Frankfurt and Zaventem. But you don't say what social conventions apply to their workers. Finally, you also stated that this outsourcing would not lead to an increase in unemployment in Belgium. On the one hand, there is little to do with the 200 people who, even if they are external consultants, will lose this contract and therefore their work. On the other hand, it is known that in 2015, nearly 2,000 Indians applied for a work permit in order to work in the computer sector in Belgium. I would therefore like to clarify these various points by asking you the following questions. How many people exactly work in Belgium on behalf of Infusys Limited and Tata Consultancy Services Belgium? What social conventions are applied in these enterprises? Will these be Belgian, German and Indian conventions that will apply to consultants employed by bpost? Finally, can bpost communicate more about the profile and number of people recruited through India and these Indian companies, and the type of contract that will be awarded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u13	The ICT department of bpost consists of a central team of more than 200 bpost staff. In addition, it relies on the expertise of more than 100 providers specialized in IT service offerings. Like other companies in Belgium, bpost is, however, faced with the difficulty of finding candidates for IT functions due to a staggering lack of IT staff in Belgium. I had already mentioned the figures before. In addition, there has been a significant turnover of freelance providers with whom bpost works. More than 50% of the resources currently outsourced have been working in the company for less than a year, at the expense of efficiency and innovation. For all these reasons, bpost published a public procurement contract in accordance with public procurement legislation in July 2016 in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Bulletin of invitations to tender for the development, maintenance, integration and support of IT applications. Following this public procurement procedure in which each company could participate, the contract was awarded to two companies, Infusys and Tata Consultancy Services Belgium. These two new suppliers therefore replace the more than one hundred suppliers that bpost used. Their main mission will be to carry out more operational tasks and support activities. Critical activities for the company's strategy and future continue to be carried out within the ICT bpost department. These supplier changes do not result in termination of employment among the own staff of the bpost ICT department. On the other hand, the departure of existing suppliers will be gradual. The target deadline is December 2017 so that current suppliers can find a new mission for their freelance. In any case, if we look at the number of job offers and the number of contracts open for this type of function, without ever being certain of course, we cannot say that we are in a segment of the labour market where there are too many people. It's more like the other way around. You asked a question about the information of private companies. When you ask the question to bpost, bpost answers that he does not have this information. I think that makes sense. You can ask questions about the number of bposts, but compared to the number of other companies, I think it makes sense that we don't have the answer. Second question. In view of the provisions in the specifications, bpost has the contractual guarantee that the services are performed in compliance with all applicable laws, including social law. In relation to your third question. The profiles used for the execution of service contracts between bpost and Infusys – TCS are the very traditional profiles of the various types of computer specialists and the IT trades, to which large companies rely in this sector. Their number varies and depends on the needs for internal staff support. bpost does not have information on the characteristics of employment contracts that link Infusys and TCS to their workers. However, as mentioned above, bpost has the contractual guarantee that the services are performed in compliance with all applicable laws, including social law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u14	Thank you for your answers, Minister. The main concern here is the type of contract and the conditions under which these new consultants from Infusys and TCS will be employed. We must be sure that through these consulting companies bpost does not employ Indian consultants on social or low cost working conditions. I'll look at your detailed answer and analyze it. I will return to this very important subject in terms of good practices and best practices on the part of our public companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I had actually asked a question to the Secretary of State responsible for Administrative Simplification, but I am glad that I can get the answer from a Deputy Prime Minister. The Federal Planning Office calculated in 2014 that the cost of administrative formalities in companies would amount to as much as 5.5 billion, or 1.6 % of GDP. At present, it is compulsory for each company to have a registered office at a fixed address. Each company therefore has an enterprise number to which the address of its registered office is attached. In February last year, the Association of Belgian Enterprises called for an official e-mail address for companies, i.e. an official e-mail address in addition to a regular fixed address. One of the obstacles to the further digitisation of the interaction between businesses, citizens and the public authorities is the lack of such an official electronic address and a mailbox for citizens, businesses or public administrations that is sure that the company in question can be contacted via this channel. There is a Golden Guide with phone numbers and addresses, but this does not actually exist for email addresses. Many e-mail addresses.................................................................................................................................................... At first sight, it seems appropriate to have a fixed address through the State Gazette, the Court Registry or the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises, and then by letting everyone use it as an official e-mail address. Perhaps it would be useful to do something similar for associations later on. Minister, I have four questions on this matter. Firstly, the position of the Confederation of Belgian Enterprises has been known for over a year. Has the proposal been examined by the government in the meantime? Secondly, what do you think are the advantages and disadvantages? Thirdly, is there going to be an initiative from the government? Fourthly, does it therefore make sense to extend this later or immediately to associations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u16	Thank you for your question. I am indeed aware of the VBO's proposal to introduce an official e-mail address for companies. I think you are right to point out that there is a bit of a difficulty in changing email addresses, often e-mail addresses from smaller companies that are sometimes still connected to the operator, which would make it more difficult to change operators. Today there is already a system called the eBox. This is a secure electronic mailbox for employers allowing social security institutions to send documents, notifications and tasks to companies. This electronic mailbox is more than a simple email address of a company. It is a closed digital communication platform on which companies can be contacted by social security institutions. It is also a system that has much wider functionalities than just an email address. The eBox is linked to an e-mail address. You will receive an email notification if there is a message in the eBox, but you can of course change your email address, which makes it much more user-friendly. Additional eBox initiatives will be launched in the coming months to broaden their use. Today it is only for social security institutions. We want to broaden it beyond the companies that are already using it today. I am thinking, for example, of non-profit organisations. Sending and receiving formal documents and digital registered shipments will also be possible via this platform. This can already be legal today, but the product itself of the digital registered letter does not yet exist because no operator offers it. Through the eBox this will be possible. You are undoubtedly aware of the advantages of exchanging information electronically for companies. This concerns efficiency and productivity gains, administrative simplification and cost savings in shipments. There are also a number of private initiatives in this domain today. You probably know Doccle, Zoomit and the others. We are working on a solution where there is interoperability between the different systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u17	Minister, large companies can move faster in the digital environment. I know the eBox project, of course. However, I have the impression that it is a closed system. In addition, it focuses on business-to-business or business-to-social security. One can extend this, but officially this can never become an address for ordinary people who are looking for the right address to reach a particular company via e-mail. It is precisely to allow an extension to the consumer rather than to businesses, to the general public rather than to a closed system, that demand is needed. Large companies are also sometimes supplied by small businesses and have the same problems as ordinary consumers or ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u18	Minister, this is a follow-up question on international SMS and telephone traffic within the EU. On 15 June 2017, the end of roaming in the EU will be a reality. It is good that nothing extra is charged when texting or calling abroad. For mobile data there is a transitional situation in which you will have to pay 7.7 euros per gigabyte, an amount that will fall to 2.5 euros by 2022. The EESC welcomes the fact that these measures are being taken for the EU. However, we must go further, and I said that six months ago. Intra-EU traffic, both SMS, call and data traffic, to a number from another Member State, is currently not included in the agreement, thus giving telecom operators tariff freedom. If you send a text message to a Belgian number in the Netherlands with a Belgian number, it may cost up to 2 cents extra, but if you call a Dutch number from Belgium, 40 cents more must be charged. This should also be eliminated with a view to future EU integration. In September 2013, the Commission's "connected continent" note was proposed, but no agreement was reached. We are now a few years further, hence this follow-up question. A number of consumer organisations and some groups in the European Parliament are asking the Member States to take an initiative on this issue. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, as regards the monitoring of roaming charges, how will this be checked in our country? Who's in charge of that control? Secondly, there are the virtual operators. Some say that there is a risk that the costs will be passed on and that the government will have to control them, others think that this could mean the end of the viability of the virtual operators. I think both options are possible. Thirdly, are you prepared at the next European Telecoms Ministers' Summit to discuss further steps to overcome this anomaly? Finally, has Belgium already taken steps to include intra-EU data in the European telecoms package?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u19	Mr Geerts, firstly, the BIPT controls the retail and wholesale charges applied by operators on the occasion of its contribution to BEREC's six-monthly planned roaming report. Secondly, the abolition of roaming charges for consumers is accompanied by a review of the costs that operators charge each other for roaming services, thus limiting the impact of the abolition on all operators. The Regulation also provides for an option for operators to apply for an exception and to charge a limited supplement for one year if they are unable to cover the costs. In this way, tariffs will be avoided for consumers who do not travel. Finally, BIPT provides for a monitoring of the impact of the abolition on operators. Thirdly, the issue has not yet been raised in the discussions between the Member States. However, the discussion is already taking place at parliamentary level. If Parliament is working out a good proposal to tackle the problems, I will certainly support it from the Council. Fourthly, data roaming services are already included in the Roaming Regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for the outstretched hand. We must also look internally at the extent to which Belgium can play a leading role in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u21	Mr President, Minister, as you may know, the European Commission has notified Belgium that its postal market is in a monopoly situation. In fact, the European institution considers that the conditions for obtaining a postal licence are too complex. Europe considers the conditions for obtaining mail to be too strict and identifies in particular: the obligation to be able, within two years, to guarantee the distribution of mail twice a week; the obligation, within five years, to cover the whole territory; the uniform tariff to be observed for services in Belgium - a tariff deemed too restrictive. bpost is not the only postal company active in Belgium and competitors have appeared in the parcel and express mail segment in recent years. Nevertheless, only one actor has obtained the license for a so-called universal service: the Brabançon company Mosaic, working under the brand TBC-Post. The Commission has left Belgium two months to act. If it does not do so, a legal procedure will be launched before the European Court of Justice. What do you intend to respond to this announcement by the European Commission? Does the government intend to relax the conditions for obtaining a postal licence? Do you intend to maintain the mail distribution guarantee twice a week? Have you received any marks of interest from other postal companies wishing to launch their activities in Belgium? If so, can you tell us more?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u22	The European Commission has sent Belgium a reasoned opinion. It objected to the conditions for obtaining a postal licence. These objections concern the obligation to be able, within two years of the start of the activity, to guarantee the distribution of mail twice a week; the obligation, within five years of the start of the activity, to ensure territorial coverage; the obligation to apply a uniform tariff, per customer, throughout the territory of compulsory coverage. I intend to propose to repeal these conditions for obtaining a postal licence under the new postal law being developed within the government. Exercise is complex and takes some time. I hope, however, that a compromise can be reached so that an approved draft can be submitted to Parliament by the summer. The distribution costs of bpost belong to the non-public business information and are therefore not disclosed. Studies carried out without the cooperation of bpost have estimated a unit cost of distribution of less than EUR 0.1 for the densely populated municipalities in Belgium and more than EUR 0.5 for the thinst populated municipalities. An unreasonable burden is not at issue at the moment, as bpost has not submitted a request for reimbursement of any unreasonable burden. The BIPT carries out an annual verification of the potential net costs and an unreasonable burden resulting from the performance of the universal service. Based on the latest calculations of the BIPT and the BIPT assumptions, no net costs are expected for 2018. In principle, a distribution frequency of less than five working days a week is currently not in conformity with the Directive. Article 3 of the Directive requires Member States to ensure that, subject to exceptional circumstances or geographical situations, universal service is guaranteed at least five working days a week: one collection; an order at home to any natural or legal person, or by way of derogation, under conditions to be assessed by national regulatory authorities in appropriate installations. At this stage, I am not aware of any postal companies wishing to launch new activities in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u23	Thank you for your answer. With regard to the approach to this issue, my Ecolo-Groen Group is fully committed to the quality of public service and to the quality of services provided to our citizens. For us, these conditions, which are pointed out by the European Commission, are important. They are even fundamental if we are to be able to provide quality service to our fellow citizens. Here, I hear you will accept, if I understand correctly, the request to repeal these conditions in the new postal law. In any case, that is the intention you have expressed. It is really, for us, going against what needs to be done in relation to a quality of public service that is being increasingly undermined today. We know that the European Commission unfortunately has a very clear view of this. It is always to promote overt competition in all sectors. For us, there are specific sectors related to public services, such as the postal sector in which bpost operates, which are specific. I imagine we will have a debate in depth, but your intention can only arouse the greatest fears in us. I therefore imagine that we will certainly come back to this issue. I note with some regret that you will therefore follow the recommendations of the European Commission in this regard. We will of course come back to this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u24	I would like to clarify a little: the universal service now guarantees five deliveries per week. I have no intention of changing that. Universal service guarantees a quality of service that is still very good. I have no intention of changing that. I wanted to make it clear because you're pushing me in a direction that, I think, doesn't match what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u25	I understood from the beginning of your reply that you were going to repeal the conditions laid down by the European Commission. I'll look at in detail which ones. You have indeed been clearer over the five days. I'll look. I don't want to make a false trial.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u26	Just to be clear: yes, it is a question of repealing certain conditions for alternative operators, in order to facilitate their access to the market. But with regard to the operator who has to guarantee universal services (for now it's bpost), I have no intention of changing anything. You see the difference. The one who must provide a universal service has certain obligations. I have no intention of changing these obligations. What the Commission is saying is that today the obligations for alternative operators are too stringent and thus limit the entry of other operators into the market. There, I am ready to look at what we could do to facilitate market access to other operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u27	I imagine that we will have the opportunity to deepen this interesting subject through questions or through a debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u28	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, you know my commitment to rural areas. On 28 February, Proximus announced the launch of the 4.5G network in Belgium. This deployment is a first step before the arrival of 5G. 4.5G and 5G are combinations of multiple frequencies that increase the download speed. This principle of combining frequencies, coming from the same operator or obtained in partnership with other operators, has enormous potential, among other things for rural areas. A possible use of this technology would be to reserve fiber optics at long distances and to have mobile antennas to make the relay of the last kilometer, the last mile, with citizens via the 5G. Residential cellular networks with pico or femto-like domestic antennas could cover a very localized street or group of users. Business models that involve citizens in investment, as is the case for solar energy, are possible. These more cost-effective deployments could be used to cover areas neglected by 4G, or even offset the poor fixed line coverage of some rural areas. We believe that this potential of 4.5G and 5G should be considered. Minister, do you see in this 4.5G technology a potential to bring broadband to areas neglected by 4G or to alleviate the poverty of fixed lines in some rural areas? Would it be possible to use combinations of frequencies of the same operator or of several operators to cover these areas and to create a corresponding commercial offer? What are you doing to ensure that the future deployment of 5G is in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Poncelet, to answer the first question, given the retro-accounting of the LTE Advanced Pro standard (4.5G), a 4G+ covered area will also always be covered in 4G. Since 4.5G allows a combination of multi-band wave carriers such as 800 and 1,800 MHz, there must be, above all, a coverage of these two bands. The areas where carrier approval can be applied will therefore be smaller than those where there is only 4G coverage. This area will not always be covered by 4G+. The fixed line can be replaced by a 4G or 4.5G connection if this area is covered by the operator. To answer your second question, I would point out that this combination of frequencies increases the maximum speed of the network. However, the combination of different frequency bands does not improve coverage. The combination of frequency bands of multiple operators is not permitted. An operator may use only its own frequency bands. Third, the 700 MHz band has the advantage of having bounds characteristic of propagation in rural areas. This band will probably be allocated in Belgium for use from 2019-2020. The allocation of user rights is independent of technology. It is currently unclear whether and when Belgian operators will be able to use this band for 5G.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u30	Minister, I would like to refer to our sources which cited the combination of frequencies and even frequencies used by different operators. Thank you for your very technical response, which I will analyse in relation to our sources of development in rural areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u31	Mr President, I had the impression that the minister was responding in part to that question! I will, however, put it down. I guess he's got a lot more to do. I will move on to the first paragraph, which refers to the same sources relating to the statements of 28 February. Minister, according to Proximus, the deployment of the 4.5G network should be faster than with 4G+. Currently in Belgium, the Proximus 4G+ network covers 39.4% of the territory. Proximus' 4G network covers 99.7% of the territory. The remaining few percentages relate to rural areas. While not all still have access to 4G technology, as the 4G+ network does not even cover half of the territory, it is quite surprising to hear that Proximus is launching a new technology that is not compatible with current smartphones. History is littered with technologies that have not had the expected rise. The market may not follow or the technology in question may be outpaced by new technologies. Heavy and unilateral investments in technology involve risks. The Belgian market is too small to ensure the sustainability of telecommunications technology. It is therefore necessary for operators around the world to invest in the same technology, in order to create a sufficient market of potential users for mobile producers to follow suit with compatible devices. Minister, do you confirm Proximus' launch of the 4.5G network? If so, when exactly is this planned? Charleroi, Antwerp and Ghent will be the first cities to be covered by 4.5G; what will be the following? What will be the cost of launching this technology? How do you perceive the risk inherent in investing in this technology? Do other operators around the world deploy this 4.5G technology? Is there already an evaluation of these facilities? Is there a sufficient market to ensure that mobile producers will follow suit with compatible devices? Does Proximus collaborate with other producers than Samsung to ensure this? When will the entire territory finally be covered by 4G?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u32	On February 28, Proximus announced the launch of a 4.5G network in Antwerp, Charleroi and Ghent. 4.5G should be seen as an evolution of 4G technology. 4.5G makes it possible to increase the speed of data connections, but it also makes it possible to bring additional capacity, where uses are in high growth. Since this is only a development of 4G technology, these investments are incremental compared to the significant investments already made for 4G deployment. With respect to the precise cost of such a launch, given the competitive environment in which Proximus operates, this information is confidential. Proximus may eventually decide to expand its deployment plan based on business factors and additional capacity requirements. 4.5G corresponds to a global industrial standard and the future devices of each seller will obviously be compatible with this technological evolution. Other operators, such as Vodafone in Spain or T-Mobile in the Netherlands, also launched 4.5G. Deployments of this technology are also taking place outside Europe. According to a Commsquare report, the current coverage of Proximus is currently 99.7%, which corresponds to almost total coverage of Belgian territory. The older technologies, 2G and 3G, complement 4G and its evolution. This means that when a client is in a rare area not yet covered by 4G, it will be automatically redirected to 3G or 2G.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u33	Will other cities be affected, programmed, after those mentioned? Don't you have any information?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u34	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u35	Minister, thank you for these points of answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u36	Mr. Chairman, Minister, we have been talking about your proposed revision of the postal law for years. You often mention it as involving solutions to potential problems or improvements raised for our postal sector. Still recently, you mentioned it following the IBPT qualitative study of a panel of citizens offering them five possible scenarios on the future of the postal service. An article in La Libre says that the law should have been debated in autumn 2015. You know, like me, that wasn't the case. Your 2017 policy note still mentioned the project but not to mention timing. Minister, what is the status of your proposed revision of the Postal Act? When will you present your project to Parliament? What is the cause of the delays? What are the problems or dilemmas you face? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u37	Ms. Poncelet, the new postal law is being drafted within the government. This exercise is complex and takes some time. However, I hope that a compromise will be reached so that an approved draft can be submitted to Parliament before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u38	I thank the minister for his short and relatively precise answer. We'll see about it by summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u39	Mr Minister, after the previous interesting questions about 3G and 4G, where I hope that someday we will talk about 3G here in the building, we will be talking about a different direction. I want to talk about an issue that is very important for the water sports clubs. In the sector of water sports clubs, the news reports that frequencies outside the VHF will be made available to them. Minister, I do not find any confirmation of this news. So I have no choice but to ask you a short question. Is the information correct? If so, when are these frequencies coming? The water sports clubs ask if there is any knowledge of the operating costs and the licence for those frequencies and the technical conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u40	Mrs Dumery, it is true that the BIPT is currently in talks with, among other things, the cabinet of Secretary of State De Backer and with the Flemish Yachting Federation, in order to ensure efficient communication in case of emergency. These VHF frequencies could be used to coordinate sporting events and promote communication between shore and sea escorts. The licence may be granted once an application has been submitted to the BIPT, including the exact indication of the desired number of devices and the desired power. The applications can be submitted together by the Flemish Yachting Federation. The cost of using these frequencies depends on the desired settings and can be calculated using the Excel file on the BIPT website. I'll give you the paper version later. The technical parameters will be established on the basis of the technical analysis of the application in order to ensure a non-failure use of the spectrum for all users.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the positive answer. The water sports clubs are indeed asking parties. It will guarantee safety more than is currently the case. The safer, the better, of course. The pleasure boat is in the elevator. We can only welcome that. The sea belongs to everyone. The more and the safer we enjoy the sea, the better. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u42	Mr Minister, the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (BIPT) recently refused to introduce a price increase that Bpost wanted to introduce. The price increase applied to the so-called small user package. In human terms, it was about an increase in the price of stamps for individuals and small professionals. The BIPT calculated that the intended price increase would result in tariffs clearly above the cost, with a further substantial profit on top of it. This profit would well exceed the reasonable profit of 15%, while there is little competition in that market segment. According to the media, Bpost plans to challenge the decision of BIPT, which is contrary to Belgian and European law. Consumers and SMEs who send a limited number of letters or non-urgent packages have a small negotiating power. The universal service provider should provide for a user charter containing consumer information on tariffs. At present, the universal service provider should also offer a publicly reduced rate. The purpose of that tariff is to grant a more favourable tariff than the full price to individuals, SMEs and companies that do not reach the minimum annual number of consignments for conventional tariffs and carry out such consignments on an occasional basis. Minister, do you believe that the price increase proposed by Bpost is justified? Do you believe that the decision of BIPT is contrary to Belgian and European rules? Finally, will the user charter and the publicly reduced rate continue to exist?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u43	The BIPT decided in complete autonomy and as an independent regulator to refuse the application of bpost to increase the rates of the retail user package. Because the BIPT refused to allow the price increase, an average family will achieve an annual cost savings of about 84 euro cents. That is a good thing. bpost indicates that the BIPT decision resulted in a reduction in the stock market value of 200 million euros for 2017, a reduction in the contribution of bpost to the state budget in the form of dividends and taxes of around 13 million euros and a reduction in the EBITDA by about 20 million euros or the equivalent of 400 to 500 FTEs per year. In addition, Bpost also indicates that the BIPT decision will affect the non-recurrent bonus of 28 000 employees. Of course, that's not as good news. The answer to the question whether the BIPT decision is contrary to the applicable rules will be given by the Brussels appeal court, should bpost decide to appeal against a decision of the BIPT. The outline of the new postal law I will gladly come to Parliament after my preliminary draft has been approved in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u44	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. The issue certainly needs to be closely monitored, as it is an important issue for SMEs and individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u45	Mr President, Minister, there is still a great deal of potential in our country to organise paper flows differently and digitally. You are Minister of Digital Agenda. Filling out the universal service more modern could be a catalyst, by extending it to the provision of electronic registered shipments and hybrid electronic registered shipments. In hybrid shipments, part of the journey is still on paper: the post operator scans or prints before delivering. On 1 July 2016, the transposition of the Regulation on electronic identification and trust services came into force, which modernises the framework for the electronic signature and electronic registered shipment. bpost stated in the press that it would not start with electronic registered shipments. Deutsche Post has been offering such products for years. The Postal Directive provides that universal service must evolve in line with the technical, economic and social development and the needs of users. By instructing a universal service provider to work on hybrid electronic shipments, such a service will become available to every citizen and not only to the B2B market at a fair and affordable price regardless of location. Minister, I have a specific question. What measures will you propose to increase the uptake of electronic registered shipments outside the B2B market? I believe that Bpost has a role to play in this and should participate in it. What measures will you take to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u46	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, the European eIDAS Regulation 910/2014 and the Law of 21 July 2016 implementing the Regulation in our country allow electronic services and documents to have the same legal value as their paper or physical counterparts and pave the way for the use of a number of electronic trust services, such as electronic registered mail. There was still too much uncertainty about the security and legal recognition of electronic services and documents, which prevented their use in practice. Three companies are already interested in obtaining the European trust mark for electronic registered shipments in our country. Those companies are currently going through the process of conformity assessment and related audits through an independent accredited body. These must be completed positively before they can apply to the FPS Economy for the status of qualified service. Several other companies would have already informed the FPS Economy, which provides the trust mark in our country, how to obtain that trust mark. The first Belgian companies are expected to be ready for the step in mid-2017. Several companies may ultimately offer the service. There is no limitation on the number. In these circumstances, where new market players want to seize the new potential in the postal sector, the question arises as to whether it should be imposed on bpost within the framework of universal service. I don't think that's the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u47	Minister, there is absolutely no question of imposing it on bpost, but it is an important evolution in which bpost should evolve. So I think you should encourage bpost to go along with that technology, because there will be a certain market for it. From your reply, I understand that the whole procedure of conformity attestations and the trust mark will be completed in mid-2017, i.e. in two to three months' time. I assume that bpost and the companies could apply the system from the summer of this year. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u48	Legally, it's possible today. The law allows it, but in order to get the trust mark, it has to be granted by the FPS Economy. Today there are three companies in this procedure and it is assumed that, if all goes well, they will be given the trust mark by mid-2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u49	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, many of my colleagues have already asked you about this, but I also wanted to do so. According to an article published by L'Echo on 31 March, telephone operators believe that it will be difficult to identify all end users of prepaid cards before the legal deadline set for 7 June 2016, six months after the entry into force of the Royal Decree of 27 November 2016 on the identification of the end user of public mobile electronic communications services provided on the basis of a prepaid card. Unidentified cards, after the expiry of this period, will be disabled. This could have adverse consequences for users using connected objects. To prevent this risk, a joint awareness-raising campaign would be envisaged by the operators, in cooperation with your strategic unit. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, apart from the malfunctioning of connected devices, what would be the other consequences of deactivation of an unidentified prepaid card? Have you been aware of this joint awareness campaign? Can you give us more information about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, a disabled card can no longer send or receive calls, text messages or data. Any end-user who has a prepaid SIM card or device with such a card will therefore no longer be able to communicate electronically via that card. The IBPT will soon launch a campaign with operators and Agoria to encourage end-users to identify themselves by 7 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u51	Minister, the campaign will be a surprise! The question is how to raise awareness.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u52	There are different ways. In general, operators do so by sending letters when they know the address, text messages also and via the press. The IBPT will launch a specific campaign. What would be most effective is for the operator to contact its own users by SMS. It's the easiest one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u53	Mr President, Minister, an article by La Libre Belgique, published on 31 March, mentions the government's intention to integrate the concept of smart cities into the national investment plan aimed at reviving our economy. These smart cities pursue the objectives of improving the quality of urban services and optimising their costs using new information and communication technologies (ICTs). Deputy Prime Minister, is the use of ICTs in urban areas already envisaged for specific situations? What would be the main difficulties in developing smart cities in Belgium? I am thinking in particular of the regions farthest away than the great Belgian metropolises.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u54	Mrs Jadin, the use of new information and communication technologies is growing increasingly in our society. In our cities and in our homes, we find them everywhere and they are an integral part of our daily lives. Several initiatives are developing at Belgian level. There are several local projects, such as in Wallonia with smart LED lights that can be adjusted according to traffic and weather conditions, which gradually equip all Walloon motorways. These smart lights, which will replace the current lighting, are considered to be more efficient, economical and environmentally friendly. The light will therefore only be shut off continuously on the Walloon network and its intensity will vary according to the requirements. For its part, the city of Antwerp has plans to place hundreds of sensors on garbage, water pipes, parking spaces or boilers of the inhabitants. These sensors will be connected to the Internet and will collect the data that will facilitate daily life. The sensors in the garbage cans will keep an eye on the filling and may therefore be of some use in guiding the collection, while the sensors in the pipes will analyse the quality of the water and intervene in the event of flood risks. The sensors in the boilers will allow citizens to better manage their energy consumption and the sensors located in the parking lot will report available spaces in real time, saving valuable time. In Brussels, the city is developing a global strategy that is structured around four challenges that address key issues of regional development: a connected, sustainable, open and secure Region. The Smart City Institute is part of the HEC Liège Academic Institute, which aims to stimulate research, information, innovation and entrepreneurship in the field of smart cities. According to a study carried out by this institute, from May to October 2016 in 589 communes in Belgium, it appears overall that projects to implement smart cities are difficult to implement in Belgian municipalities. This study identifies three main obstacles to the implementation of a smart cities project, the availability of financial resources, the insufficient expertise in administration and the complexity of the mobilisation and involvement of different stakeholders. The National Pact for Strategic Investments, presented in March 2017, aims to overcome a number of these obstacles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u55	Mr President, I also see in my small region that if we want to implement the fine projects mentioned by the minister, we realize in practice that administrative expertise is sometimes insufficient and that we are faced with a certain reluctance and lack of resources. However, this should not prevent policy-makers from continuing to do so, in order to develop our economy but also to improve our energy performance. These are important issues and I will support the Minister in his projects to develop these techniques, including in my region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u56	Minister, I suggest that you take stock of the questions before I put mine. At first, I had come to that end. Questions No 16355, No 16726 and No 17638 by Mr Peter Dedecker are postponed, as are questions No 16374 and No 16375 by Mr Laurent Devin. Question No 16805 by Marco Van Hees is transformed into a written question. Question No 16950 by Mrs Lalieux became moot, as did questions No 18066 by Mr Veli Yüksel and No 18076 by Mr Peter Dedecker. Attached questions No 16924 by Mr Inez De Coninck and No 18045 by Mrs Barbara Pas are postponed. Question No 17618 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u57	Deputy Prime Minister, the IBPT, the regulatory body for postal and telecommunications services, has published an inquiry into the future of La Poste. In this study, it referred, with its panel, to the reduction in the frequency of distribution, the reduction of the postal network, the abolition of the universal postal service for large quantities of consignments, the abolition of the service of each address in favour of a Community box, the application of a variable tariff depending on the address of the addressee. These forward-looking developments, in addition to the fact that they are not necessarily well perceived by the various actors in the file, senders, recipients, postal services, call into question for many of them the universal postal service which underpins the operation of the distribution of mail, parcels and other official documents. They contravene both the bpost management contract and the European Mail Distribution Directive, which reaffirms the universality of this service as the basis for the action of postal services, in particular the distribution of mail five days a week, guaranteeing social and territorial cohesion. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, beyond the scripts discussed by the IBPT, what is particularly important is the size of the panel consulted to deliver these conclusions: 80 people in total and for everything about a population of 11 million people! Was the IBPT taken over by time? Did she have so little financial, human and logistical resources to have to limit herself to such a ridiculous and unrepresentative number of bpost clients, which was not even consulted? How can we understand that the IBPT, a public body, can communicate so lightly validated proposals on the basis of an investigation with such questionable conditions of implementation, without concern for the adverse consequences that this could have on the company, therefore its shareholders, of which the Belgian State is the first since it is a majority shareholder? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you promptly defused the controversy by means of the press. What did you say to the IBPT about this? You are working on the revision of the postal law, whose texts you will file with the government by the summer. What elements of studies, surveys, analyses do you intend to use to carry out this project? How is this issue of the modernisation of postal services addressed in the relevant Council of European Ministers? What perspectives are raised in your debates?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u58	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, the universal postal service must evolve according to the technical, economic and social environment as well as the needs of users. It is in this context that a role is also reserved for the regulator to examine frequently whether developments are observable in terms of the needs of postal users. The IBPT does so every two to three years. It is not my intention to reduce the frequency of distribution during the legislative reform. The purpose of a management contract is to provide for the amount of the public allocation in exchange for the performance of public service tasks by an organisation. In the case of the IBPT, this mission and funding from the sector's contributions are already laid down by law. The added value of a management contract can therefore be questioned. As for the reflections at European level with a view to reforming the postal directive, they have so far not led to any initiative or proposal by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u59	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Of course, we will have an opportunity to come back to this issue once this issue has progressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u60	Deputy Prime Minister, I came to ask my question, but finally I chaired the whole committee and it was a pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic652x.u61	Mr President, thank you for that. It's a job you may still be doing in the future.
