ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u1	Karine Lalieux, resident: Colleagues, we are starting our work. On the agenda this afternoon, we have the hearing of the Court of Auditors and, above all, of Mr Michel de Fays and Mr Rudi Moens, both members of the Court of Auditors, who have come together with all their collaborators who have participated in this report. And I really thank the Court of Auditors and its staff who are present with us this afternoon to answer the many questions that I am sure will be raised following your report. I also welcome the Chairman of the Court of Auditors sub-committee, Mr Luk Van Biesen, and thank him for being with us today. All the members of the Court of Auditors sub-committee were also invited, but I note that it is mainly the members of the Infrastructure Committee who are present. I would remind you that we are here, not in a political exercise, but in a technical exercise. So you have an independent body that has submitted a report. And so today's questions – I say today – will be of a technical nature. Tomorrow is different; we will have a political exercise. Don't worry, Mr Cheron, you will all have freedom of speech and you will be able to ask questions about all the findings and proposals of this report. I propose that President Van Biesen say a small welcome and I will take the floor afterwards. President Luk Van Biesen: I thank the counsellors and the auditors of the Court of Auditors for drawing up this very detailed report. This report was requested by a resolution of the Chamber. It is only the third time in the last five years that this has happened, so that is not the usual method. As you know, we have requested one more, a fairly detailed report on the financing of sickness funds. On 17 March 2016, the Chamber asked the Court of Auditors to conduct specific investigations into the causes of the failure of the GEN Fund and of the significant delays in the GEN work. They have produced a fantastic and very detailed report, which they will outline today and which will, of course, feed a large part of the debate tomorrow on the political consequences. That is why I would like to return the floor to Mrs Lalieux and then to the Court of Auditors. Karine Lalieux, President: Colleagues, you have all received the report from the Court of Auditors, under the supervision of our two secretaries. I should like to make a brief parenthesis on an issue that has been raised in the Conference of Presidents. I have received the report from the Court of Auditors together with you, that is, on Monday morning. It wasn't me, the president, who received it. I would remind you that the report is not sent to the chair of the committee but to the Speaker of the House. I wasn't the one who arranged the leaks in either newspaper. I say it and I repeat it here. Nor was the secretariat, which discovered the report on Monday morning. In fact, we had difficulty deciphering your USB drive, which was highly protected. It's important to put the clocks back on time. As my colleague has said, this report has been carried out very seriously. We are used to it with your work, dear members of the Court of Auditors. This is a remarkable report, especially because it is a first. Let us give Caesar what belongs to him and thank Mr Cheron, since it was he who proposed the resolution to refer the matter to the Court of Auditors, which was voted unanimously by the House. This is the first time in the long history of the RER, which begins in 2001, that the causes of what can be called the RER failure are objectively established (since you are an independent body), but above all that there are plans to finalise this project. I believe that every one of us – that is my case – can, thanks to your report, be both modest and responsible. Through your report, you point out the diffuse and collective responsibilities of all since 2001. You have analysed the past well and we will now have to consider the future with the minister. Very sincerely, your report will enable Parliament to work independently on findings and proposals. Thank you. I think that if we are able, thanks to your reports, to progress on this issue, all commuters, be they Walloons or Flemish, all Brusselsers, all those concerned with environmental and public health issues will thank you for allowing objective and detached progress on Community issues. So, thank you for this report. I will give you the floor immediately. I think you've been given the slides. You can start. I can stay here because I have slides. We're in a new room. I don't know where we can do the PowerPoint presentation of our guests. I'm lucky to have my own screens. The technicians haven't arrived yet? We asked for them. This must not be very complicated. (...): It's technical!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u2	Like the RER! Karine Lalieux, Chair: Like the RER! We're not going to be too late, I hope! The slides are distributed in two languages. Mr de Fays, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u3	Madam President, Mr President, by a resolution of 17 March 2016, the House of Representatives asked the Court of Auditors to investigate the establishment of the causes which led to the bankruptcy of the RER Fund and the considerable delay in the construction of the RER. More specifically, the House of Representatives' request addresses the following points: to investigate the use of the RER Fund since its inception, to examine the reasons for budget overruns and non-compliance with deadlines, to examine budget and time estimates, to examine the methods of monitoring, monitoring and planning that have been implemented, to examine how cooperation between the different authorities and between the different entities of the SNCB Group has been established. This is a broad question that we have tried to answer as clearly and objectively as possible, in a report that still has 130 pages. We have structured it into seven chapters, which focus on the rail component of the RER, and only on that one. Chapter 1: Introduction. Chapter 2: The framework and objectives of the RSP, the analysis of the decisions that frame the RSP, the review of the objectives of the project and their evolution over time. Chapter 3: piloting the RER project. Chapter 4: the financing of the ER. Chapter 5: the time frame for carrying out infrastructure work under the RER Fund. Chapter 6: Analysis of the rail offer RER. Chapter 7: Rolling stock intended for the RER. A final chapter summarizes the conclusions of the report. I have not counted, but I believe that this is the sixth or seventh report that I have the honour and pleasure to submit to you in response to your request for SNCB. In accordance with our usual working methods, before we approved our final report, we held an adversarial debate with the various speakers. This took place with the Minister of Mobility, the SPF Mobility and Transport, the SNCB and Infrabel. As usual, their full responses are appended to our report. My colleague Mr Rudi Moens, but also Mr Serge Roland, the first auditor-revisor, and Mrs Véronique Simonis, the first auditor-revisor, who led the study, will, together with me, summarize for you the various elements of this report. I begin with the framework and objectives of the RSP. The genesis of the RER project dates back to the early 1990s. At that time, it was essential to set up a general mobility project, not only a rail project but a general mobility project, which promotes modal shift in and around Brussels. After several studies carried out in the 1990s and early 2000s, the RER project is adopted on the basis of the cooperation agreement of 11 October 2001 on the multi-annual investment plan 2001-2012 of the SNCB, which is still unitary, which sets out a list of works necessary for the implementation of the RER and the RER agreement of 4 April 2003, which sets out the objectives of the RER, specifies the expected offer and organises the project's steering mechanism. The 2003 Convention was ratified by the Federal Parliament and the three regional parliaments and entered into force on 11 March 2006, three years after the Convention itself. The RER is defined as a global mobility project which consists of developing an integrated public transport offer in the area within a radius of about 30 kilometres around Brussels, which is known as the RER zone. According to this agreement, the RER offer was to be fully operational by the end of 2012. It should be noted that unlike the Paris RER, the Brussels RER project does not seek to build new lines in specific sites but aims to strengthen the capacity of the existing network to improve the supply of trains to, in and around Brussels. Two main findings are drawn by the Court of Auditors concerning the initial objectives of the ER. First, the objectives of the 2003 RER Convention are unclear. We have a general modal shift objective that is not encrypted. The RER Convention sets out requirements for rail offers but does not foresee any expected growth, for example in the number of passengers. Secondly, there is a question of consistency between the objectives of rail supply and the means of infrastructure intended to achieve them. From the outset, SNCB and Tractebel, in their 2004 study, indicated that, even if all the RER investment work provided for in the 2001-2012 investment plan were carried out, it would not be possible to reach the offer provided for in the 2003 agreement. Several observations can be made with regard to the evolution of the objectives. Firstly, the objectives of the 2003 Convention were formally maintained throughout the implementation of the RER project, even though they could not be achieved. Secondly, the implementation of Article 13 of the Convention, which provides for the regular implementation, every five years, of a study on travel needs, has not been satisfactory. Indeed, the study was carried out only once in 2009 and has not been updated. When I say that it was realized in 2009, that is, with a year and a half delay on the initial timing. The Court thus finds that there is no evaluation to ensure, at regular intervals, that the objectives and the means used remain relevant to the needs and their evolution. At present, there is no guarantee that the development of the RER, as planned by the railway companies, will meet the current mobility needs. Thirdly, as a result of the study I have just mentioned, article 13, the Executive Committee of Ministers of Mobility, which brings together the federal Minister of Mobility and the three Ministers of Regional Mobility, adopted in 2012 more realistic intermediate objectives. In fact, it is these intermediate objectives that are being pursued behind schedule for the implementation of the RSP. At this stage, it is important to note that two key dates are to be chosen: on the one hand, the 2003 RER Convention involving the three Regions and the Federal, which was ratified by their respective parliaments in 2006 and, on the other hand, the intermediate alternative offer which is less ambitious and which was adopted in 2012 only at ministerial level and not at parliamentary level. In the follow-up to our presentations, we will talk about either the "2003 Convention" or the intermediate and less ambitious project, the "intermediate scenario 2015", adopted by the four Ministers of Mobility. For this last expression, do not focus on the date. Let's say it's a conventional name used by the consortium responsible for the article 13 study in 2009. I now turn to the piloting of the RER project, which will be carried out from several bodies whose roles and missions are governed by different texts. First, it is based on the consultation structures provided for in the 2003 Convention. More recently, the Act of 19 April 2014 establishes two other bodies within the SNCB: the RER Steering Committee and the RER Unit, responsible for the competences of the SNCB, for certain aspects of the steering of the RER. We have analysed the role and functioning of these different bodies. The 2003 Convention organises a structured pilotage scheme on the basis of three-tier coordination. This pilot scheme includes, first of all, the Executive Committee of the Ministers of Mobility, which is the body at the highest level - responsible for the overall coordination of the RER and made up, of course, of the four Ministers of Mobility concerned. Below, we have the ER Steering Committee, which is responsible for strategic and tactical coordination of the ER. It is composed of representatives of the four ministers, as well as members of SNCB and other public transport companies. The Steering Committee is supported by a permanent secretariat composed of four members, who are theoretically seconded by the stakeholders. Its role is to support the Steering Committee in its work (preparation and drafting of meeting rooms, establishment of a database on the ER, etc.).). We have a third level with the Operational Group, responsible for the operational coordination of the ER. It is composed of representatives of the four public transport companies. Infrabel does not participate since the RER is not just a railway project; it is a project that was intended to be global and involved regional transport companies. The Court of Auditors makes several observations concerning the operation of the steering bodies provided for in the RER Convention. The Executive Committee of the Ministers of Mobility met very little: there was a meeting between 2006 and the end of 2015; and it was not able to make the necessary adjustments to the project for efficient and useful implementation. The 2003 Convention was never called into question. However, since 2016, this committee has met quarterly to address mobility issues, including the RSP. The steering committee did not regularly monitor the project until the final report of this famous article 13 study was submitted in June 2009. Subsequently, its meetings were much less regular. In 2013, its composition was limited to an intercabinets and its activities focused on the follow-up to the article 13 study. The permanent secretariat was mainly based on the Mobility and Transport FPS, with no regional implications. It did not work permanently. The operational group was established only in 2008 and met very little. He hasn't done it since 2012. In addition to the pilotage scheme provided for in the 2003 RER Convention, the Act of 19 April 2014 establishes two new bodies within the SNCB: the RER Steering Committee and the RER Service. For the competences of SNCB, these bodies are responsible for the operation of the ER. The precise link and coordination between these two bodies and the coordination structures provided for in the 2003 RER Convention is not specified. In the absence of the appointment of representatives of the Regions, the RER Steering Committee could not be validly set up so far. It will take until 23 December 2016 for the Council of Ministers to approve the new composition of the Board of Directors of the SNCB, including the regional directors. This decision removes any obstacles to the establishment of the RER Steering Committee. As for the RER cell, therefore the RER service, it was set up on 1 May 2014. It gave a new impetus to the RER project, as well as a better visibility of the offer, by the launch in December 2015 of the offer of S trains. Finally, the Court of Auditors notes that the establishment of a working group in 2012 between Infrabel and SNCB contributed to the coordination between the two operators and allowed the design of a new planning which involves more than in the past the completion of the work, on the one hand, and the improvement of the supply, on the other. However, until the resumption of the activities of the Committee of Ministers for Mobility in February 2016, the reflections of Infrabel and SNCB were outside the framework of the steering provided for in the Convention, which is still a great pity. This raises the question of coordination between regional transport companies and the integrated nature of the project. It also raises the question of the involvement of the Regions and finally raises the question of the follow-up by the SPF of the proposals formulated. I shall now give the floor to my colleague Rudi Moens, who is going to talk to you about Chapter 4, the fourth part, namely the financing of the RER.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u4	First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the classification I will follow for this chapter on financing is somewhat different from the classification of the report, but the content is, of course, quite similar. What are the general principles for financing? Well, the financing of the Regional Expressnet takes place through the deposit of annual discs to the so-called GEN-Funds. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the GEN-Fonds is no longer a real budget fund, unlike the name probably suggests. That was the case until 2004. Since 2005, the management has been taken over by SNCB. It is therefore actually a kind of account with SNCB, which has continued to bear the name GEN-Fonds. As already mentioned, the GEN Fund is managed by SNCB. There's a check on that. I'll get right back to you on that. In essence, the control is carried out by the FPS Mobility and Transport and by a service within the internal audit of SNCB. The amounts received by the GEN Fund are set out in the 2001 cooperation agreement between the State and the Regions, which provides for a total budget of EUR 1,612 billion, the bulk of which, EUR 1.46 billion, is earmarked for Infrastructure, for railway infrastructure. In addition, there are also smaller amounts: €95 million approximately for station infrastructure, i.e. for Infrabel and in the past for SNCB Holding, and €56 million for rolling stock, of course for SNCB. On the next slide you can see the amounts. This amount of 1.6 billion is being revised on the basis of a formula which takes into account, inter alia, the price of materials and hourly wages. The current revised amount of nearly EUR 2.2 billion will thus be achieved. The GEN-Funds works according to the principle of the closed envelope. This principle is provided for in the management contracts. What does this mean? This means that any excesses of that 2.2 billion envelope must be financed by the traditional investment dotation. At the moment this does not have to happen, but, as you know, the resources of the fund are almost exhausted, and if we continue to follow that logic, we will in future have to use the classic investment appropriations, which will of course mean that the GEN investment will, in a way, come into competition with the other investments. In the event of non-utilisation of the annual instalment, the balance may be transferred to the following year and, where appropriate, invested. On the next slide you will see the amounts deposited in the GEN-Fonds. The federal government has paid in amounts every year, except for one year. No payment was made in 2006 because it was considered that there was still enough in the GEN-Fund and the balance was still sufficient to meet all obligations. You will see that this EUR 2,184 billion, the updated amount, taking into account the prices of materials, hourly wages, etc., was already reached by the end of 2014. In addition to those deposits made by the government, to be precise by the FPS Mobility Officers for the budget specialists among you, section 33 has registered a number of basic allocations from which those deposits are made, and over the years the GEN-Fonds has also generated a number of interests, obviously at times when interest rates were higher than they are now. This has resulted in 72 million euros of interest. Those revenue from the GEN Fund, together with the interest, minus the expenditure incurred, resulted in a balance of EUR 224 million at the end of last year. We don't have a new situation yet. We have requested it and we are told that a new situation will be available at the end of February, which will be prepared by Infrabel. In all likelihood, that balance will be much lower, but an exact amount could not yet be communicated to us. The pie diagram shows the use of the GEN-Fonds. The bulk of the "92" % of "infrabel" has gone to Infrabel, as it was intended. SNCB and the former SNCB Holding are responsible for a use of 8%. SNCB is the manager of the GEN-Fonds. Before the restructuring, that was SNCB Holding. The tasks of such management are defined in the management contract and include, in particular, making the funds available to Infrabel and SNCB on the basis of invoices and other supporting documents. There is also verification of expenditure ceilings, an overview of the withdrawals and prospects and the preparation of an annual report with detailed figures for the Mobility and Transport FPS and for the Minister for Public Enterprises. Moreover, the reports of the FPS Mobility show that these obligations have been respected over the years. You have already noticed that SNCB is a manager at the same time, but also for a piece of co-beneficiary. That is why it is very important that a final check is organised. That control is there on two levels. First of all, we have a service within the internal audit of SNCB which carries out an ex ante audit. Then, of course, there is the FPS Mobility which provides an ex post follow-up. In particular, it is primarily the so-called Centralised Service for the control of public contracts and contracts; a whole sandwich. This is a service within the internal audit of SNCB, which deals with the prior examination of the company's requests for payment. Infrabel, for example, delivers his invoices to that service every month, which will then verify them and which will actually give the green light for payment from the GEN-Fonds. The FPS Mobility and Transport then comes in second instance, afterwards, and does a kind of global follow-up of the investments, their uses and accounts. There have never been any significant errors in these checks over the years. As a Court of Auditors, we should make the point here that controls seem rather limited to us, given the amounts involved. Limited in that there is only systematic control of larger amounts. What are larger amounts? Amounts greater than EUR 200 000. For example, there are no yard visits either, there is not enough staff for that allegedly. The follow-up by the FOD, as already mentioned in an earlier report on the management contracts, also seems to us to be possible in a number of respects. There are also a number of reporting obligations for society. The management contracts shall require an annual report to be drawn up on the estimate of the total cost of the GEN project and of the budgetary risk statements. That obligation will apply from 2009. In practice, however, we have to note that no report was produced in 2012 nor from 2015. The reason given for this, where we can, in a way, earn, is the uncertainties associated with the multiannual investment plan 2013/2025. This multi-annual investment plan has been suspended for two years. The report also addresses the key. The cooperation agreement of 11 October 2001 provides that the financing of the GEN fund is to be allocated to the Flemish Region at 60% and to the Walloon Region at 40%. In general, this is the same key as the one that applies to the other rail investments. This key is subject to a number of exceptions, such as rolling stock, HRT and international projects, which are subject to a number of specific rules. I also note that the distribution key applies on an annual basis and that every year there is an inspection by the FPS Mobility, which has already concluded that it is strictly respected in practice. Our study shows that the application of the annual distribution key has led to delays in a number of cases. Delays in working in a region can, of course, have an impact on the continuation of the works in the other region. Of course, the opposite is possible. If a certain region is moving faster, this has also led to accelerations in some cases. In general, however, we have found that a number of yards have been shut down due to the strict annual application of the key. There's another element that's playing. For the Walloon region, we have found that investments in security and capacity conservation absorb a relatively large part of the budget, at the expense of investments in capacity expansion. That is a conclusion that actually applies at general level, so it is not specific to the GEN. It applies to total investment expenditure. This could, of course, have consequences for the future. If we were to finance the GEN from the traditional investment funds, we would naturally have to take account of these limitations. As far as financing is concerned, we do not really know any more than what we have read in the press, namely that there has been discussion in the nuclear cabinet about the possibility of a billion more. We have been informed, but we have not yet been able to obtain details of the formal nature of this decision and the specific financing arrangements. I do not want to anticipate your questions, but I can tell you that this is a question that we leave to the Minister: how could the remaining deficit be financed? On the next slide we will discuss the expenditure and the causes of the additional costs. By the end of 2015, the investment for the GEN infrastructure works was EUR 1 962 million borne by the GEN Fund. Currently, infrastructure works are largely stationary. Infrabel estimates that, according to Infrabel 1 028 million euros, a little more than a billion euros are still needed to complete the projects. You will immediately see that the sum of these two amounts exceeds the sum of the approximately 2.2 billion available in the fund, so what was paid in plus the interest. If you do A minus B, you will have a deficit of about EUR 800 million to complete the projects that are currently in the pipeline. We note immediately that this really is a lower estimate, because given the size of the works that still have to be carried out, the Court of Auditors believes that the estimate of the expected costs is likely to have to be increased. What are the causes of these additional costs? In our report we distinguish between two types of additional costs. One species is difficult to avoid, as inherent in the financing mechanism, and is the result of the fact that the deposits to the GEN-Funds are thus not made to the companies........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You understand that if these works take place with the necessary delay, the costs have already increased in a number of cases, and then the sums received through the FPS Mobility, of Section 33, often no longer cover the costs. Infrabel has made a calculation of this. It's not our calculation, but I'll give you that amount for information. Infrabel amounts to a small EUR 200 million which would be purely due to the financing mechanism. However, there are other reasons, which cannot be explained by the financing mechanism, the so-called intrinsic increase in costs. You'll see it on the next slide. You will see that the cost of the GEN Fund has increased by more than 27% over the period 2001-2016. You can also see the breakdown by project. At first glance, it would be said that there are considerable differences between the projects. Of course there are. The table shows, for example, Watermaal-Schuman-Josaphat: +53 %; Nossegem: +78 %; the construction of stations and parking areas: +100 %. Those are important posts. On the other hand, there are other items which increase only to a limited extent. The Brussels-Nivel line, for example, L124, and the Watermaal-Bosvoorde-Louvain-la-Neuve line. Once again, however, great caution is needed. It is precisely those projects that are the least advanced where increases are the most limited. Logically, we have to conclude that they can increase. I am not saying that the rule of three should be applied. We do not know exactly what the additional costs may be for the first two projects in the table, but we must take account of additional costs which can be considerably higher than the two percentages currently shown in the table. I've already discussed the next slide. Now I'm going to slide 30. I would like to go into a little more detail about the causes of the additional costs. We have followed the classification of Infrabel. Some of the reasons have to do with the permits. This means that changes had to be made as a result of environmental impact reports and negotiations with the municipalities and the Regions in order to obtain urban planning permits. Classical examples are the sound protections to be placed and the better insulation of vibrations. Especially in the early years, such cases have caused considerable additional costs, less in recent years. A second group of causes relates to the extension of the duration of the yards. This entails, among other things, additional costs for the so-called programme management performance. Work is also being carried out to continue using the line during the yard. Some of the reasons relate to technical requirements, security measures, new accreditation requirements and that sort of thing. A third group of causes is quite spacious. These are causes which have been put together in one category because they have to deal with estimates that were initially underestimated or that had to be refined over the years for various reasons. We note that some of these initial estimates were made on the basis of a cost-kilometre estimate which serves as a reference for classic railway lines, but which often did not take into account the project's particularities, which in some cases also led to additional costs. On the next slide you will see the numbers. The increase, linked to the licences, has been the main cause, with EUR 277,8 million. Everything related to the extension of the durations, including certain technical requirements, amounts to EUR 258 million in additional costs. For the increases linked to the revision of the estimates, we and Infrabel come to EUR 137 million. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is a fairly rough classification. Sometimes there have been several factors. However, this overview gives an idea of the importance of the various factors in the causes of the additional costs. I come to the conclusions and recommendations of this section on funding. A first important conclusion is that the State is not to blame for this in terms of financing. The State has fulfilled its obligations. We can see that the committed amount was paid in from 2014. In this report, together with Infrabel, we have been able to identify the main reasons for the cost increase. There is a need for an additional amount, a relatively substantial amount of at least EUR 800 million. We would like to draw attention once again to the fact that this is certainly an understatement. It is a provisional situation based on the work as they are now known. We also think it might be appropriate to reflect on the application of the 60/40 annual funding rule. It is at the root of some delays. The question here is whether greater flexibility is not appropriate. The uncertainty surrounding the investment plan is another delaying factor and should be lifted as soon as possible. Finally, we believe that the control of expenditure needs to be further strengthened, given the scale and importance of the amounts paid into the GEN Fund. I now give the floor to Mrs Simonis, who will go into more detail about the various delays.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u5	In Chapter 5 of the report, the Court of Auditors examined the delays in the implementation of infrastructure projects which were the responsibility of the RER Fund. As you can see in the table of the next slide, only one of the projects, the Nossegem curve, was completed in time. The remaining projects were delayed between six and 17 and a half years. For infrastructure projects with the greatest delays, we also identified the causes of these delays, which can be classified as four: delays in obtaining initial permits, recourse procedures, increased complexity of the work and unavailability of financial resources. With respect to obtaining initial permits, you can see that we highlight three specific lines. In the first phase of obtaining these permits, i.e. the submission of applications, there was a delay in the submission of applications for lines 124 and 161. They were to be introduced before the end of 2002 and were introduced for line 124, in May 2003 in the Flemish Region and in July 2003 in the Walloon Region. For line 161, applications were submitted in February 2003 to the Flemish and Walloon regions. As regards line 50, no time limit was set and applications were submitted in October 2003 and December 2003. As a result, there was "a small delay in ignition" when the applications were submitted. As far as the decision of the Regions is concerned, we can see from the table that, compared to what had been agreed in the cooperation agreement of 2001, namely that for lines 124, 161 and 50A, the Regions undertook to issue permits within 18 months, possibly extended by 12 months in the event of a change in planning or spatial planning, only the Walloon Region has issued these initial permits approximately within the agreed deadlines. For all other lines and regions, the deadlines have been largely exceeded. The second cause of delay was, of course, the numerous appeals. Of course, it is not possible to prejudge in advance the number of appeals or any discontent that will arise during the project, but SNCB was already very aware, in the planning phase of the four-tracking, for example, of lines 124 and 161, that the work would be the subject of numerous disputes on the part of the residents. She took the lead. It has tried to alleviate concerns through information sessions and a series of relays aimed at informing residents as best as possible. Nevertheless, this has not prevented many delays and appeals. In particular, I will mention only the saga of line 124, for which appeals are responsible for about 50% of the delays. There is a remedy in the three regions. In the Walloon Region, a second permit had to be introduced after annulment and this second permit was the subject of three appeals, all of which were rejected, but this extended the procedure accordingly. In the Flemish Region, too, there was a first appeal. A second permit was issued in August 2010 and this second permit was also subject to three appeals and was cancelled on 7 October 2014. And in the Brussels Region, we had three consecutive building permits for the project, in March 2008, in March 2011, in January 2013. Each of these permits has been cancelled by the Council of State on the basis of the application of the Law on the Use of Languages in Administrative Matters. Therefore, since the last cancellation, Infrabel has not submitted a new licence application to the Flemish Region and the Brussels-Capital Region. For L161, appeals are responsible for approximately 18% of the delays; for L50A, 60% of the delays; and for Watermael-Schumann-Josaphat, there was only one appeal, but this link was affected by the L161 proceedings and all of these appeal procedures account for approximately 44% of the delays. The third cause that can justify delays in the execution of the work is the complexity of the work. A first rather important element is that SNCB has relied on previous experiments concerning the development of new lines such as high-speed lines. However, the ER work was much more complex than originally planned, simply because it was located in highly urbanized areas. This has led to greater pressure from local residents, local administrations, and the evolution of technical requirements due to these discontents has caused delays. In particular, lines 124 and 161, which are somewhat martyred lines, have experienced many phasing problems. The same goes for the Watermael-Schuman-Josaphat link. Some changes in the techniques used on the construction sites have also slowed down the work. I would mention, for example, the ban on the use of a pile machine in the vicinity of service lanes following the Ternat accident in 2011. These are therefore events which have arisen in the course of the work and which have slowed down the execution of this work. The fourth reason that has been identified is the unavailability of financial resources. It has been noted that successive budget restrictions have increased the impact of key 60/40 on the progress of construction projects. As Councillor Moens explained to you, the 60/40 key, impacted by these budget constraints, caused a slowdown in work, because priority was given to investments in security and maintenance of infrastructure at the expense of capacity expansion, the RSP being a capacity extension project. For line 161 itself, the application of the 60/40 key accounts for approximately 54% of the delays noted. Finally, the suspension of the 2013-2025 multi-year investment plan has also significantly slowed down investment since Infrabel has conditioned the resumption of work on L161 and the completion of the procedures for obtaining new licences for L124, which for the time being still does not have one, to the approval of a new IPP. These two elements have therefore also contributed to delays in the execution of the work related this time to the unavailability of financial resources. In the following slide, you see a table that repeats each month of delay, these different causes that I have just explained to you, distinguished according to the lines. In conclusion, it should be noted that only one project, as I have reminded you, was completed within the time frame set. In addition, the delays which have been made and which are set out in the table which was previously projected are already exceeded, if I may say so, since in its report of June 2016, Infrabel included new deadlines for implementation, but this was linked to the fulfilment of three conditions which were the approval, as of June 2016, of a new multi-year investment plan (which is not the case), the issuance of the licences cancelled for L124 in Flanders and the Brussels Region within three years and without recourse (for the moment, no applications have been reintroduced by Infrabel for the reason I have just mentioned) and the availability of the budget as required. It can therefore already be observed that the deadlines updated in the June 2016 report will probably not be met. To reinforce this idea, the presentation of the Minister of Mobility to the Executive Council of Ministers of Mobility in June 2016 no longer contained final deadlines for implementation for L161 and L124. In the new approach presented by the Minister, there was talk of a partial four-track increase and an increase in supply on lines 124 and 161, which was planned for 2024, but the full four-track increase is no longer time-bound. It's postponed sine die. We therefore conclude with one consideration: the completion of the work by sections rather than lines, proposed by the Minister, could perhaps have been foreseen from the beginning of the projects, which could perhaps have reduced the delays we are experiencing at present. I shall pass the floor to Mr Roland, who will present the rail offer to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u6	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to promote the transfer of the car to and from public transport in and around Brussels, the 2003 Convention covers twelve railway relations which cross Brussels and serve one of the following three poles: the North-Midi junction, the European neighbourhood or the national airport. This area covers 126 communes and has a central core and a peripheral ring. The 2003 Convention lays down requirements in terms of amplitude and frequency by rail relationship. A minimum amplitude of 20 hours per day on working days, a frequency of one train every 15 minutes on working days in peak hours. Apart from these, smaller frequencies are also expected and vary depending on whether the station is located in the central core or in the peripheral ring. The 2003 Convention was a mobility policy guidance agreement which was not based on a technical feasibility study. From the outset, SNCB has expressed reservations as to the frequencies to be achieved, the integration of the RER offer into the existing rail network and the timetable. However, the 2003 Convention is not a closed framework. It provides for the possibility of adapting the characteristics of the PER offer according to the results of a study which was to be carried out and updated every five years. This, provided for in Article 13 of the Convention, was only carried out in 2009 and has never been updated. It is, however, the basis for the only reorientation of the RER project by the Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility in May 2012. This study confirmed that it was technically impossible to implement an operating programme in line with the expectations of the 2003 Convention, in particular identifying succession conflicts between RER and Intercity trains on many axes. There is a conflict of succession when slow trains (e.g. omnibuses) brake fast trains due to lack of overtaking possibilities. This study develops an alternative scenario to be implemented in stages between 2012 and 2019, which, of course, meant that the planned work would be carried out within the planned time frame. This 2015 interim scenario reduces the requirements of the 2003 convention: the amplitude is reduced from 20 to 17 hours; the train frequency is no longer locked but expressed in number of trains per hour – there is obviously a difference between "one train every 15 minutes" which is rather a quality orientation for users and "four trains per hour" which gives the railway operator more flexibility. The turnaround dates for the RER offer are extended by several years for more than 90% of stations, and train routes are changed. Our report gives two examples of route changes that I am not going to develop, but the common point of which is to relieve the North-Midi junction by making more use of line 28 west of Brussels. The alternative offer developed in this interim scenario 2015 was conditional not only on the realization of works, but also on the delivery of equipment and the setting up of new schedules. The timetables are at the heart of our analysis of the evolution of rail supply. In this regard, it is important to note that reservations were also expressed in 2009 by SNCB and Infrabel with regard to this interim scenario 2015. For these two companies, this scenario does not take account of network constraints outside the RER zone and the calculation of journey times is based on the maximum performance of Desiro equipment, which leaves no margin in case of difficulties. To analyse the RER offer, it is important to remember that the RER is not a dedicated network, but an area where the rail offer must meet amplitude and frequency criteria. The expected offer can therefore be met by all trains stopping at the stations concerned, whether S, IC, P or L. In order to carry out this analysis, the Court of Auditors could not rely on evidence from SNCB or SPF Mobility and Transport. To be complete on this issue, I would say that the follow-up organized at SNCB was not sufficiently reliable. As for the Mobility and Transport FPS, it did not organise any follow-up on the deployment of the RER offer. In its reply to the Court of Auditors, the SPF states that monitoring can only be organised if it is provided for in the management contract and if this provision provides for what data must be provided by SNCB. For the Court of Auditors, the Mobility and Transport FPS is a key player in support of the mobility policy, under the responsibility of the Minister. A mention in the management contract is not necessary to monitor the deployment of the railway offer. It was on the basis of SNCB's train schedules that the Court of Auditors carried out its analysis. We compared train frequencies in peak hours in June 2016 with the expected frequencies in the 2015 interim scenario. A similar comparison was also made for weekend train offers. This comparison covers the stations, relationships and deadlines of the 2015 scenario. It was built station by station in the direction of walking towards the Junction or towards the European quarter, at the first hour of peak in the morning, the slot 07:00 - 07:59. The stations were grouped according to the due date. When a station is served by several relationships with different deadlines, the most distant deadline has been chosen, which is a rather favourable assumption for SNCB. The table before you summarizes the situation as follows. For more than half of the stations served by railway relations whose deadline is exceeded, the objective is not achieved. Compared to the January deadline of this year, the offer is below expectations for 65% of stations. For the coming deadlines, 2018 and 2019, significant efforts still need to be made. The slide tells you for each maturity the number of stations concerned. As far as the RER offer is concerned on weekends, the Court of Auditors notes that the offer is much lower than the expected offer, while the requirements are lower. The Court of Auditors also examined the added value of the current offer compared to the situation prevailing in December 2002, prior to the establishment of the 2003 Convention. It noted an improvement in the frequency of trains for 22% of stations in the RER area. For half of the stations there is no surplus value. A decrease in frequency is even observed compared to 2002 for 28% of stations. The currently projected slide specifies the number of stations involved. In practice, this comparison shows that in June 2016, compared with the December 2002 situation, the RER rail offer improved only at some 30 of the 142 stations concerned. In conclusion, for the Court of Auditors, rail supply has yet to be significantly increased on most suburban relations, in order to achieve the objectives pursued by the interim scenario 2015, which, I would point out, was in retreat from the 2003 Convention. This increase in supply, however, requires overcoming several obstacles related to the capacity of the infrastructure, the railway nodes of Hal, Bockstael, Brussels Petite-Île and Jonction Nord-Midi. Infrastructure limits the possibilities of increasing supply in peak hours. The potential is limited, if not very limited. Infrabel commissioned a detailed study on the residual capacity of railway infrastructure. However, the results of this study were not definitive at the time of the closure of our report. Infrabel will probably be able to provide additional information on this subject. On some axes, the supply can be improved following the completion of four-lane work, which will free up additional paths. Our report indicates that further signage, for example, will also be required. For example, solutions to shear problems will be needed. The shearing is the fact, for one train, of cutting the route of other trains, which requires slowing down or stopping trains to allow the crossing. Other runways are also possible, such as the modification of certain routes, the revision of the number of stops on certain trains or another arbitration between InterCity trains and S trains. However, these runways are a choice of opportunity. For the Court of Auditors, consideration is needed to assess whether the objectives pursued with regard to the RER offer are still relevant today, and to link objectives and means. In order to achieve the societal objective of moving from private to public transport, a new needs analysis should be carried out. This should take into account the offer of all public carriers, as originally planned, and not only the rail offer. This analysis should make it possible to select the most efficient solutions to deliver the best service to travellers. Mr. Fays's advisor will now present our findings and conclusions on rolling stock for the RER rail offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u7	I would like to take the floor again to explain to you the last chapter of our study, Chapter 7, which deals with rolling stock. With regard to this rolling stock, we analysed three elements: how the rolling stock requirements were defined, the process by which this rolling stock was acquired and the current allocation of the equipment used to organise the suburban offer in Brussels. In terms of rolling stock requirements, it is quickly necessary to acquire new rolling stock suitable for a suburban offer. Indeed, in the 1990s, SNCB allocated to local supply in and around Brussels mainly old or old-fashioned equipment and, above all, not suitable for suburban relations. Although SNCB's Sprinter motors are recent and suitable for suburban supply, they are few and also used in other regions. The RER offer will therefore be ensured by new car drivers to buy. SNCB will also assign to the RER old motor cars which will be modernised for this purpose. With regard to the purchase of RER rolling stock, the starting point is that in 2000 the Government amends the SNCB management contract to require SNCB to draft, by 31 December 2000, the technical part of a special specification. The draft terms of reference will not be drafted within the time limit. In 2003, the agreement includes the forecast schedule set by SNCB for the acquisition of RER equipment. The first supplies were to be made by the end of 2006, but the convention does not specify the qualitative objectives of rolling stock. These clarifications were made in 2004. In 2004, the Council of Ministers hoped that the new equipment to be ordered would include characteristics inherent in suburban transport, such as rapid start-up acceleration or large doors that could facilitate easy embarkation and disembarkation. In 2005, SNCB placed for the first time the acquisition of rolling stock for the RER in the context of its overall rolling stock requirements. It carries out a detailed study of its rolling stock requirements by 2008-2012. As a result of this study, SNCB favours the acquisition of standard equipment that can be used throughout the network and for all types of relationships (long and medium distances, local and suburban), which seems quite logical since we do not have to deal with a real RER network like what is designed around Paris. Following this decision, SNCB amends the specification it had already submitted to eight manufacturers who had been selected after a contract notice published in 2003 and had submitted an offer in December 2004. These offers had not been successful, as the proposed price far exceeded the amount envisaged by SNCB. A new version of the special specifications is transmitted in February 2007 and will be ordered in April 2008. This order from Siemens covers 305 Desiro motor cars each made up of three cars. Of these, 95 are for the RSP and are financed by the RER Fund. This contract for one of the largest orders ever made by SNCB for rolling stock amounts to nearly one and a half billion. These cars were delivered between December 2011 and April 2015. See the delay in this market of the century! We made the following observations. First of all, the timetable mentioned in the 2003 Convention was not respected, the procedure lasted more than eight years and the motorists were delivered five years later than the deadlines laid down. Second, the acquired motor vehicles meet the main characteristics expected of equipment intended for a suburban offer and defined by the Council of Ministers in 2004. Third, as a result of the 2005 study, SNCB wanted to have standardized equipment also capable of ensuring long-distance relationships. This standardization of equipment provides management comfort and ease of operation for SNCB. Fourthly, SNCB did not wish to apply the new technical specifications on accessibility to persons with reduced mobility to the Desiros. These specifications already fixed at the time of the order for Desiros in May 2008 were mandatory only from July 2008. In 2006, SNCB decided to allocate to the RER offer the 181 classic dual motors called AM6679. They have been undergoing modernisation since 1999 with the aim of extending their use by 15 years. Among the cars that have not yet been modernised, 40 will receive a modernisation reinforced by the addition of a metro aspect: they will bear the name of "City Rail". The "City Rail" programme carried out between 2007 and 2012 was financed by the RER Fund to the tune of more than 66 million. As of June 2006, 113 of the AM6679s were still in service. A significant decommissioning of this equipment, including modernized motor vehicles, was carried out following the entry into service of the Desiros. The Court of Auditors analysed the rolling stock allocated by SNCB to the suburban supply in and around Brussels. The figures provided by SNCB relate to the situation in June 2016. These figures relate to S trains as well as overtime trains during peak hours. It can be seen that more than 80% of the supply is provided by equipment adapted to a suburban offer – either Desiros or modernized Sprinters. However, SNCB did not meet its 2005 objective of eventually deploying equipment unique to the RER offer. With regard to the allocation of 305 Desiros, the figures provided by SNCB services for June 2016 indicate that 101 Desiros provide suburban services. We also find that 58 Desiros are immobilized – which is equivalent to a 19 per cent immobilization rate, which is abnormally high for new equipment. The Desiros are immobilized at 13.7% for technical reasons, i.e. to carry out interviews, repairs, software updates, etc., and 5.3% for operational reasons, i.e. to reinforce convoys in the event of a tributary, to organize special trains or to replace trains which have suffered damage. In its response, SNCB indicated that the capitalization rate reached 8% to 11% between July 2016 and November 2016. Therefore, this is a challenge to our findings, but these figures relate only to technical immobilization and do not include the Desiros immobilised for the operational reserve. With regard to our findings on rolling stock, we note that, as in 2005, SNCB still uses five different types of rolling stock to ensure the Brussels suburban supply. Among these five types are still equipment designed for long distances. The multiplicity of types of rolling stock on the same line can slow down rail traffic, as Mr Roland has explained, and prevents increasing frequency, as the least efficient rolling stock imposes its pace on all other equipment. Again, we are not really here in a RER offer, with dedicated lines. The Court also found that the rolling stock likely to run on the RER lines currently has an abnormally high immobilization rate. This immobilization concerns both the Desiros and the double motors partially modernised by the RER Fund. The high fixed assets of the equipment and the premature decommissioning of some modernised motor vehicles indicate that the RER supply deficit in relation to the objectives pursued is not related to a shortage of rolling stock. I think it's important. On the contrary, SNCB has sufficient rolling stock to increase the supply of suburban trains in the RER area in the short term. This is our presentation of the seven chapters. Thank you for your attention and of course we are at your disposal to answer your questions. Karine Lalieux, Chair: Thank you for this very pedagogic and clear presentation. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that everyone ask their questions. As I said, these are technical questions or clarifications on the Court of Auditors' report. Everyone has to be able to express themselves. That is why I would say that speaking time should be limited to ten minutes per group. Tomorrow, we will do the same during the exchange with the minister, namely a speaking time of ten to fifteen minutes. Today, let us limit ourselves to ten minutes for your technical questions. Dear Members of the Court of Auditors, all questions will be asked in gusts and you will answer in your turn in gusts. There's enough of you to take note. Of course, I have no doubt about your abilities and efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u8	Thank you, Madam President, as well as the chairman of the Court of Auditors committee. Firstly, I would like to thank the counsellors of the Court of Auditors for the extensive study and the comprehensive report, which was very interesting. It's a document that I can keep reading and discovering other things over and over again. I would also like to thank Mr Cheron, who has taken the initiative to come to the document before us, and I would also like to thank those Members who, together with us in committee, have drawn up the resolution asking for an audit. Madam President, I will follow your recommendation, namely that it is not the intention here to give political exhibits or the importance or not to speak of a GEN; that is matters for tomorrow. The study is so interesting that I will ask chronological questions. Some questions are very technical, but nevertheless I ask them. Perhaps the counsellors of the Court of Auditors cannot immediately give an answer, for which I fully understand. I am also trying to grasp the timetable of the GEN, which is a project that is going on over many years, as well as the report and the large sums. Some questions have been asked on this basis, to clarify for myself and our group. The first question concerns lines 124 and 161. Those lines would initially only be brought to three tracks. Now, finally, four tracks are needed. In addition, line 161 was another alternative, which was cheaper than the option of bringing the current route to four tracks. That was suddenly unleashed. Can you clarify that? Secondly, I was pleasantly surprised that you referred in the study to the Brussels-Europe terminal. This HST terminal was first planned at the site Schaarbeek-Vorming. I think that terminal was interesting, because it is close to the airport and for the HST lines it is easier to avoid the north-south connection. This terminal has also been released. It's in your study somewhere. Why was that terminal released? Do you have any more information about this? Reports or studies are sometimes referred to in the footnotes. Maybe those references contain more information about letting go of the choice for the Brussels-Europe terminal. In your opinion, does this also depend on the late implementation of the need study, which then only happened in 2009? Was there anything specific about Brussels-Europe, North-South capacity and Line 28 in the 2009 Need Study? If Brussels-Europe had been achieved, the latter would have been a solution both for north-south and for the GEN. Several times it comes back that at the start of the project people knew that the GEN was not a lasting solution to solve the saturation of the north-south link. In fact, it has been established from the outset that this was a problem. I do not understand why the choice of Brussels-Europe was abandoned. I also do not understand that some cases were reduced for line 28. Perhaps you could clarify that. On page 29 of the report you refer to the multiannual investment plan 2013-2025. In that multi-annual investment plan suspended by this government, the original objective of the GEN was already abandoned. I refer to the objectives of the 2003 agreement. Does that mean that this was a missed opportunity to set and incorporate the objectives of the 2003 GEN in the design of the multiannual investment plan 2013-2025, the previous multi-annual investment plan? It actually only includes the objectives of the intermediate phase, which you also referred to. That intermediate phase was meant to be realized in 2015, but that has already moved to 2022. That's not entirely clear to me. When drawing up that multi-year investment plan, it seems to me that I have missed an opportunity to realize the GEN as intended. I come to the meetings of the ECMM, the steering committee and so on. The ECMM has clearly failed to fulfil its purpose. Some ministers have not even called ECMM together. The ECMM and the steering group of the GEN should work closely together. This steering group finds our group very positive because there are representatives of the regional transport companies. The GEN had to offer an integrated transport offer. It is therefore a pity that, if the study is finally delivered in June 2009, this steering group will not reach a consensus on the final report. Some members even question some elements of the intermediate GEN offer 2015. What was in the study on Brussels-Europe, the north-south link and line 28? The integrated objective of the Steering Committee was shaped by representatives of the regional transport companies. A while later, however, the steering committee was reduced. I think that too is a missed opportunity. I also note on page 53 that works were carried out with the GEN-Fonds. It concerns an increase in the capacity of Brussels-South, capacity-building measures in the Brussels-South zone and works on line 50A which had already been carried out for the HRT. Can you confirm that work for the HRT was paid with funds from the GEN-Fonds? Or is that a wrong interpretation of mine? We were also talking about the follow-up of the billing. You said that this was done correctly, although the control of it could have been more extensive. Perhaps a little more explanation as the SNCB is the manager of the GEN-Fonds. Do you suspect that invoices were paid without any certainty about the execution of those works? Sometimes it is not clear in the management of the GEN Fund whether works have already been carried out. Perhaps this has to do with a limited control of invoicing and payments via the GEN Fund? As for the 60/40 key, you write on page 61 of your report that the number of train kilometres in Wallonia is almost equal to that in Flanders. Is it true that the somewhat perverse measure of the key did not allow investment in Wallonia to take place? In proportion to their budget, more needs to be done to maintain capacity and security. Will we be able to achieve the objectives of the GEN if we maintain and equip all Walloon lines with ETCS? Does that make any sense? Can you clarify that? You also say that there is still a deficit of EUR 800 million for the GEN. What is their distribution between the regions? Can you explain that? Initial estimates were optimistic and far from consistent with the necessary resources. Did that mistake or understatement occur at the beginning of the project? What period have these estimates been drawn up? Implementation was much later than estimates. Prices are rising, but I don't think that's going to close the gap. What size are the accumulated deficits? Do you have any concrete examples of wrong estimates that you find indicative of this GEN file? I refer to an overrun which I find striking, namely the 100 percent overrun of the GEN budget in connection with the construction of stations and parking areas. Why did that overrun happen? Was it never thought of the objectives that the GEN had to achieve? Was it necessary at all, was it a need to make so much extra investment? In the end, we will end up with double the budget, over three billion, while the original figure was 1.5 billion. Is it permissible to make such expenditure now, taking into account the original objectives? Will you thus achieve the integrated public transport offer? On page 111 you write that the need analysis only happened once. That's another missed opportunity. You also write that at present there is no guarantee that the development of the GEN, as programmed by the railway companies, will meet mobility needs. Do you think, even though you have only analysed the track, that other mobility interventions are possible that can meet the same needs at a lower cost? After all, I believe that we still need to keep the 2003 needs and objectives in mind. Is there sufficient certainty today that the completion of the GEN is the best solution to mobility needs? Do you think that the start of the remaining works, such as line 124 and line 161, without doing that need analysis again, would be an efficient use of tax money? Finally, over the past few years on the Walloon side, huge budgets have been invested in station construction. Wouldn't it have made more sense to use these budgets first on other mobility projects, for example to finalise the GEN? What exactly is the relationship between these files? Karine Lalieux, Chair: Mrs De Coninck, many other members are still registered after you. Now you are really exceeding your speaking time!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u9	Excuse me, Madam President, I didn't keep an eye on time. I will conclude with this. Wouldn't it have made more sense to invest the budgets in the GEN works? After all, the management agreement states that the government must adapt if the GEN-Funds is not sufficient. That was never applied or mandatory, but I do not think it was forbidden to use the existing amounts for the GEN. Would you mind explaining that for me?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u10	On behalf of the MR, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for its excellent report. I think this one can serve as a guide to the future of events. It gives an extremely enlightening and enlightening view of what has happened or, rather, what has not happened, or what has gone wrong. In this, it is interesting. The president asked us not to make a policy today, to be only technical. It's a little difficult for politicians to be just technicians. I'm not an electrician or a heating engineer, but I'll try to stick to it. I'm gonna try not to do politics. To make a somewhat acidic comment, I will say this from the synthesis. You all know Magritte's painting, entitled "This is not a pipe." I'd tend to say, "This isn't a RSP." Or, "All for that." And that is a shame, because this is a magnificent project that was launched, and I would like to point out, Madam President, by Minister Daerden in March 1999. It is important to stress the willingness to follow up and to say in a positive way that 21 ministers have dealt with this issue, that nine successive governments have dealt with it – perhaps not enough – and that the four political colours are there. Thanks to the Court of Auditors' report, we are here to move things forward. Nevertheless, worrying and surprising things are to be noted. The Court of Auditors recalled that, indeed, after the ministerial decision of March 1999 to create an RER in and around Brussels, there had been constant, far too long, delays between the decisions in principle and the entry into force of the Convention in 2006 alone. The convention, I recall, had been accompanied by a cooperation agreement and the famous key 40/60 date from that time, and not from the present government. We remain hungry as to why it took so long, between 1999 and 2006, to achieve the implementation of a convention, which was signed in 2003. On the other hand, the Court of Auditors recalled that all RER work should have been carried out for 2012. But, as you said, it was not credible. The 2003 convention was above all, and I believe that it is the meaning of your position, a political orientation agreement that lacked technical and financial feasibility. It would be interesting to know whether you had the opportunity to explore further how this dual feasibility could be achieved. How did we get to that? It's important. I will give you an example that will please Isabelle Poncelet. I remember attending a congress in a previous life, when I sat in the same party as Mrs.Poncelet – a long time ago. It was called, "It is at the first age that everything is decided." Indeed, the first age of the RER is extremely important. It's through the foundations that we have to start building a house. Unfortunately, I must express my frustration. Several issues raised by the Court of Auditors have not really been resolved. In addition, a whole section of the 2003 Convention has been completely hidden – whether voluntarily or not, it is not for the Court of Auditors to rule on this matter. In any case, it had been pointed out that it was a multimodal offer, including not only rail but also regional transport companies. Obviously, there are huge shortcomings. You point out that, in the end, we are returning to the railway, whereas in the excellent convention of 2003, we made it clear that it was the rail more... Karine Lalieux, Chair: Please conclude, Mr. Flahaux!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u11	As I said, it's at the earliest age that everything is decided. The problem is that we have to hold a new project by hand and there there are major failures in the pilotage: not or too few meetings at the different levels. From the moment the child is delivered to himself, how do you want him to succeed in walking? It would be interesting to know why those various committees had not met. I still have a lot to say, but I'm going to leave the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u12	Madam President, I would also like to thank the members of the Court of Auditors for their work. It was really worth taking stock of the situation. We've already thanked colleague Cheron. We can do it again. I wanted to go back to the 60/40 allocation key. You clearly recall that this is an obstacle to the rational and efficient use of the means of investment. It should be recalled that this distribution key was decided in 2002. So there's a respect for federal loyalty on this key. All the traditional parties approved it. On this point, I have a small comment. On page 58 of your report, it is stated that sometimes very costly investments in station development can also have a negative impact on the completion of network capacity extension work. What do you think these investments are about? On what scale do you place them in the causes of slowing down the work of the RSP? In other words, as the honourable colleague Inez de Coninck said, how much has the pharaoh stations contributed to slowing down work or diverting some of the resources that could have been allocated to the ER? You're also talking about the 80/20 key. It's the one that was informed by Infrabel. Does Infrabel determine the period during which this key was applied? For the last 17 or 18 years or only at certain periods? With regard to the evaluation of work and causes of delay, your report makes it clear that only one of the five projects was completed within the time frame set. For the other projects, we are talking about delays of 6 to almost 18 years. It's kind of interlocking. In addition, you note that the main causes of delay are the obtaining of initial permits, the procedures for appeal, the complexity of the work and the unavailability of financial resources. In this regard, you point out that at the meeting of the Committee of Ministers for Mobility, which, I would remind you, was relaunched by Minister Belot in June 2016, he announced a new planning of the projects by carrying out the work in sections. How do you feel this approach is better and how do you justify the fact that this approach should or could have been defined from the beginning of this file? Maybe we'd have saved time and money. You also mentioned that the intrinsic costs of the projects increased by 27% between 2001 and 2016, i.e. 673 million euros of which 150 million correspond only to stations and car parks. Do you find this consistent with the original 2002-2003 project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Court of Auditors, thank you for the report and the explanatory statement. It is an interesting piece of work in which even a number of interesting elements have emerged that not only relate to the GEN, but can be extended. For example, with regard to monitoring investments in SNCB, I think there are still some lessons to be learned. Back to the GEN and maybe all the way back to the beginning. The initial objective of the GEN was to favour a modal shift from the car to the common transport and to increase the market share of public transport in the GEN area. To achieve this, the GEN project is based on three paths: improving the supply of common transport, providing the user with an integrated service and implementing accompanying measures. The research has focused on the first track, namely: improving the supply of common transport services. My question is whether the other two slopes were taken into consideration during your investigation and whether certain conclusions can be drawn from them? I refer, for example, to the integrated services to which my colleague has already referred. Meanwhile, STIB, TEC and De Lijn have also invested in tram connections, metro lines and so on. The question is whether they still fit within the GEN framework, which at the time was also drawn up by these transport companies and to what extent they are still integrated. We are therefore very close to the mobility needs already mentioned by a colleague. It was made very clear that every five years a need analysis had to be carried out. This was agreed in the basic agreement of 2003. The need analysis was only carried out once and led to a number of useful adjustments as stated in the report. It is clear that a new need analysis would be useful, especially in view of the investments made by the other transport companies. In this sense, that is a very important element of the report that you are proposing here. With regard to the GEN-Fonds, why did they choose the instrument of a fund at the time? That's not entirely clear to me. Has it been a good choice to work with a fund? I sometimes feel that the GEN is considered too much apart from the overall rail network, because it is not so big in distance. We are talking about a separate fund and a separate plan, but we cannot really separate it from the overall rail network in our country. The same is true of the 60/40 distribution. This also applies to the entire railway network and to all investments in it. It is therefore logical that the investments that take place in the GEN should also comply with that 60/40 key. You say that this is an obstacle to the smooth running of investment. I can imagine that this would make planning difficult, especially if it had to be respected every year. Of course, that is what we hear from SNCB and Infrabel. However, I do not see any concrete indications where this has been a problem or where it has caused delays and problems. The report states that it is an obstacle, but does not refer to certain events that have led to delays. The argument that 60/40 is an obstacle is a little lacking in the report, but perhaps you can explain it a little further later. The fund is managed by SNCB. Most of the fund goes towards Infrabel. The management of the fund is carried out by SNCB. In itself, questions can also be asked. Does it make sense that this belongs to SNCB? They took control of that in 2009, if I remember correctly. Before that it was at the FOD, but there was too little there. Towards who does what and who controls what there are still lessons to learn there. The explanatory statement does not focus on this very much, but that seems to me to be something that is important to take with it to possible future structures and possible future forms of organisation for such projects. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the estimates and deadlines that were or were not followed or unrealistic. I have the feeling in most major projects, whether it be the railway world, the road construction or the construction of parliament buildings and other buildings, that most of the time it takes for a particular project to be underestimated and that time investment is usually underestimated. Is this so very different from other projects? When one sees how long the project Oosterweel or the north-south link in Limburg are already on the agenda, it sometimes starts to be too relativistic, that can also be. Is there any particular reason for this to be very unrealistic estimates and deadlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen of the Court of Auditors, thank you very much first of all. As we are a bit used to it, this was an excellent report from which we can get a lot of information. Thank you for that and also for the presentation. Madam President, as you have asked, I will confine myself to technical questions. Political matters are indeed for tomorrow. I will try to follow the order of the statements. I'll start with the funding. We've all seen it, there's now a deficit of about 800 million. However, if I have understood correctly, if I am wrong, you should certainly improve me. This only refers to the infrastructure, not to the vehicles that have to drive on the GEN. Are there any of those in there? That will, of course, also be a cost within the whole GEN project. So I do not mean that what is already finished, but what is still to be done in the future. Is that included in the 800 million? You say that it is certainly an understatement and that the amount will increase. In this underestimate, is it just the infrastructure works or are there other items included? Next question. We have heard here a number of times that we need to work together with the Regions and that it is about an integral plan. So it's not just the SNCB. What we are dealing with here is mainly about SNCB, but of course the whole project is more than this. The Minister of the Flemish Government also announces all kinds of railway projects. My question is whether they are included in the 800 million deficit? Do they have to be included? For example, there is talk of 365 million for the Flemish rail projects. Is this included in the 800 million deficit, or should that still be included? Then as regards handling of the 60/40 key. This concerns funding, but also the problem of exceeding all deadlines. Could you give me a little more explanation about that? As Mr Van den Bergh said earlier, I do not quite understand where the cause of this can lie, except, of course, in the fact that there is an overall under-financing of SNCB as a whole and that it is necessary at some point to decide whether to opt for safety or for the GEN project. Is it a global underfunding for SNCB and then a piece for the GEN project? Maybe I misunderstood that and you need to explain it further? The next point is the deadline for infrastructure work. There are several reasons, starting with applications for licences which are already far too late as planned. Can you explain again why that is? Or is there no indication as to why these applications were made too late? Then we have also seen that the decisions of the regions leave much to be desired. That's a lot later, too. Another point is the appeal procedures. The decisions of the region's regions, are those on the final authorisation after the review procedures? You say that this should be done within 18 months, plus 12 months, but that period is well exceeded. Are the appeal procedures already in that overrun? Or are they gonna join us again? I would like to know the reasons for the delay in the decisions taken by the regions? Is that because of the appeal procedures or other things we have not heard at the moment? Are there any delay manoeuvres going on? It has also been said that many appeals have to do with language issues. Could you be more specific about that? Perhaps the application for authorisation was given in the wrong language, in other words: what exactly are the language issues? There is also the complexity of the works. There is the issue of financial resources and the 60/40 distribution. Would it help there, it is the same question as before, if the budget were to be completely decoupled and a separate budget for GEN and it did not make that distribution? Or, on the contrary, will it be even more difficult because they will be part of the territories of the two regions. If this is also one of the causes, I do not know how to resolve it. The delays are continuing. For a number of projects, for which we are now reasonably on schedule, although there is still a delay, we are still at the beginning, so we can assume that the delays will also go much further. Has there been an estimate for that too? Have you also discussed this with SNCB so that it can now be more or less set an end date? Several parliamentary questions have already been put to the Minister, but there is always a silence on this issue. Do we now have a projection for the final deadline, or are we not? As I said earlier, once the GEN has been completed, trains will of course have to run on it. We must, of course, talk about the moment when everything is finally over, so do not now have a balance between the supply of trains, the rolling stock and the investment on the tracks. Do you have any idea whether this is actually happening or whether it has not been investigated in the report? Has a need analysis specific to the GEN been carried out in preparation for the new 2017 transport plan in the 2017 needs plan? If that's what happened, how's the affair there? Has that been investigated, too? With regard to the rolling stock intended for the GEN, it has been very clearly stated that the zero engines have a particularly high degree of immobility. Could you give me a little more explanation about that? Has SNCB been asked what the reasons are for this? We now see that the zero motors are also widely used on the long-distance lines, such as Antwerp-Charleroi and Turnhout-Binche. Did you ask SNCB how that happened? Indeed, these are not train sets serving longer distances than those provided for in the GEN or for which they should be used. Madam President, so far, my questions. Bedankt alvast.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u15	Madam President, I join all my colleagues in stressing the value of this work and the quality of this audit/report by the Court of Auditors. I also highlight the excellent synthesis presented today, which allows me to better target my technical questions. Madam President, like cars, I will try to hang on to questions that have already been asked. For my first question, I would like to join Mr. Van den Bergh on his remark "this fund is not a fund." He was, but he isn't. According to the Court of Auditors, would it have been better to maintain a budgetary fund (in the sense of budgetary effort) instead of this account now allocated to SNCB but financed by the SPF and Infrabel? If I understood correctly, because for me, it's not clear. It's not a clear line. Do you have a view of the interests (the word is two-way) to maintain a fund or not? My second question concerns expenditure and additional costs over the period 2001-2016. If I understand correctly, you estimate this expenditure and additional costs at 673 million, which, in your opinion, would be a percentage of 27.2%. I assume you've taken inflation into account. As I understand it, in these additional costs of 673 million, you consider that about 275 million would be due to facilities qualified as peripherals (garments, car parks). Some consider these to be responses to what is perceived as nuisances, but these investments are not directly related to the project. In short, have I understood correctly? The additional cost is 673 million, of which 275 million are station, parking, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Third question on the provision of the RER Fund. So I understand that there's nothing left in 2015 and 2016. And I assume that, directly or indirectly, it is related to uncertainty with respect to PPI 2013-2025. The IPP is uncertain and has been repealed. There is no RER Fund funding either in 2015, or in 2016? Is that what we need to understand? Fourth question. On what you say in relation to the 60/40 key, I suppose it must be explained that it is a key that applies when the location is possible in the Walloon Region for the 40 and the Flemish Region for the 60 and that there are elements of the territory that are not localizable, as soon as you are for example in the Brussels Region. Is that it? Is this the case? To understand your suggestion of Infrabel's deduction from a key that was transferred in 80/20, what you know well in other laws - such as special laws, 80/20 financing, it speaks to me. It's something else. I'm not going to digest. We're gonna stay on the subject. I'm trying to contain myself, Madam President. Understand my emotion! I didn't get it all in the 80/20. I assume that it is in view of the means and the fact that there are also obligations for Infrabel to maintain capacity. So we're not in the extension. Ms. Simonis clearly distinguished capacity maintenance and capacity extension. If 80/20 has actually been applied, it is a form of mutation of the 60/40 key, taking into account the available means. Is that what we need to understand? Fifth question. When the Court of Auditors takes up the concern in the future to work in sections, what did you understand? I can hear what that means. It is trying to concentrate future work by section rather than spread it over a line. I guess that's the meaning. But how does this promote the improvement, which you do not see, of supply? It's even the other way around. If we are working in the future by section, what about what you are pointing out, namely that at some point we are hitting knots, the main one being the North Midi Junction? And now I can't find an old dada from Mr. Cornu. I don't do politics. It's a fact. He's on his way out. Mr Cornu suggested a possible improvement in the use of the Nord-Midi Junction by the ATO system with 20% improvement in the rate, because today we are limited. It's very technical. It may be an oversight or a mistake on my part, but I don't think I've seen that anticipation because an improvement per section, if you find yourself stuck at a node, I don't see very well where the interest in the intermediate offer of the one you're trying to improve before the RSP is finished. I hope I make myself clear. There is also the question of the operating costs of the RSP, also raised by Mrs Temmerman, a question which I had not identified directly and which concerns everything concerning the order of tariff integration, of ticketing, of timetables, of marking, of a branding which would be the branding RER as it is done with the offer S; I have not seen these elements either! My last question, Madam President, is that of rolling stock beyond what has been pointed out by my colleagues and on which I will not come back. In particular, the Court of Auditors insists on the "unadaptation" aspect with regard to persons with reduced mobility; that is what I have seen. But what about the height of the docks because we know that the Desiros are in the image of the metro with the adapted dock height? We know that there are at least three categories of dock height, which is a very important element if we want to create an RER offer that is close to that of the metro with easier access when climbing on the train, whether it is a Desiro or another adapted to the RER offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u16	Madam President, I thank the Court of Auditors for its detailed report. I won't go over the details too much. Throughout your study and analysis, a cross-cutting issue could be highlighted. On various occasions, you refer to the fact that the RER is not a dedicated network since it takes into account all trains: trains S, IP, IC, etc. You mentioned a lack of detailed monitoring of deployment and the RER offer. You're talking about the need to acquire specific material that is suitable for a suburban service. Through these details, the question is whether a specific structure should not have been created to carry out this large-scale project, with specific objectives and funding so as not to find itself in a situation where SNCB seems to be concerned by it, does not make it one of its priorities. This project seems to have become a secondary objective for SNCB. What do you think? That is the state of our thinking. In the current state of affairs, with a demand for refinancing amounting to 800 million euros, with such a significant backlog, what do you think of the idea of giving a possible reorientation to this project, a little more autonomy? I do not know how, but, in any case, it may be a bit detached from this idea of 60/40 funding, which, as some colleagues have said, may be a hindrance. I think, for example, that in Wallonia we would not be too late on certain permits, whereas in Flanders we are. Is this related to this distribution 60/40? Is it not now time to consider reorienting the whole project towards a slightly more autonomous structure and redefining real objectives, well-targeted at the level of development on the ground but also well measured in terms of funding? It is not a question of detail, but rather a global reflection on what we have just experienced. Isn't it time to ask these questions for the rest?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u17	Thank you again for this very interesting and very educational presentation. I add a few items and ask you to tell me if you can confirm them or not. Rather, it is a question of confirmation of factual elements that have been analysed by the Walloon cell regarding the ER. At the territorial level, 60% of the RER is located in Flanders. We know that Flanders surrounds Brussels. It's a reality. So 60% of this RER is in Flanders. According to a count made by this Walloon cell, today's contribution to the RER in general is 28% for Flanders, 42% for Wallonia and 30% for Brussels, knowing that Brussels is excluded from the 60/40 key. I'll come back. A number of works were explained because they were outside of the 60/40 key; indeed, not all work concerns this 60/40 key, including trans-regional work. In this context, for lines 124 and 161, the passage in Flanders was paid outside the 60/40 key. For line 161, this was put in the airport project, which was paid differently, by the national and by the current commuters as well as by the high-speed lines. I'd like to know if that data is telling you anything. This seems important to me in the distribution of this funding. Generally speaking, since 2001-2003, the State has complied with its obligations. Successive governments have met their obligations to fund the RER Fund. You also indicate that the vast majority of the expenditure was made for the RER, even if it had not been foreseen, for example parking facilities or stations in certain municipalities of Walloon Brabant or Flemish Brabant. There has therefore been respect for the rules and the Convention. On the other hand, you say that since the 2013-2025 multi-year plan was suspended, there has been no funding for the RER Fund. You're talking about $800 million to finish this RER, but you're saying it's an undervaluation. You note that Infrabel has no longer carried out any work and conditions its agenda on three conditions: the approval of a new investment plan (which has not yet been completed), the budget availability that is not effective (you say so yourself) and the issuance of permits to meet the deadlines within three years, taking into account the remedies, which is less controllable at the federal level. Do you find these three legitimate conditions in relation to the simple stoppages of work that have been postponed since 2014? We have seen a willingness on the part of Mr Cornu to proceed with the offer S, pending the offer RER, if it ever exists. I'd like you to confirm that. What do you think of the S offer which, for you, is much less than the 2002 offer compared to the RER hinterland, without the work already done and without the new equipment? You talked about the different stations but, in your opinion, in general, is it lower than in 2002 but higher than in 2015? Can you give me any specifics about this? You tell us that the 60/40 key has been respected to the letter by all companies but, if I understand you correctly, this key has the effect of developing and speeding up work in one Region but sometimes blocking it in another. This key blocks the correct and effective use of public funds. Today, according to you, the 60/40 key means a misuse of public funds in relation to the efficiency of the mobility and development of the RER network. You tell us that this key can be an obstacle to the rational and efficient use of investment resources. This is a fact that concerns the whole development of the ER. I would therefore like to hear from you on this point. I would also like to hear you comment on why changing the annual key 60/40 into a multi-year key could solve some of the problems of the development of the RER in the Walloon Region. I did not understand another aspect. I would like a simple explanation of the 80/20 key, instead of the 60/40 key, with respect to the ER. If I understand you correctly, it is because of the appropriations available and the reorientation of investment obligations in terms of security and maintenance. Is that the explanation? I'm asking you the question. You told us that the 800 million were undervalued and that you saw in the press that we were talking about a billion, but that you could not announce anything as to what form it would take, since you had not received any information. Have you asked the minister's office, the government, or the two operators, who would have prepared a financial package in this regard? According to you, the 60/40 distribution key caused several delays. You also mentioned "the absence of IPRs, the government's budgetary restrictions that forced Infrabel to stop its work." That's what you're showing in your report. Can the additional cost be estimated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u18	Madam President, Mr President, thank you for letting me speak last. I was stuck on the External Relations Committee for a while. I'd like to congratulate the Counselor and Counselor of the Court of Auditors on their report, which I've read as a novel. Sometimes I thought it was fiction. However, what is in the report is reality. I congratulate them on their work. What struck me quite quickly is something that has already been mentioned here by other speakers, namely: the GEN dossier was on the wrong track from the beginning, which I also find in the report. The objectives were misplaced. What is now before us is not at all in line with those objectives. I'll give you two examples that I find in the report and they prove it. First of all, there is no GEN in its own bed today. The S-lines run in existing beds. From the outset, in 1989, it was also clearly known that the north-south link, the bottleneck, would be a problem for the GEN to function properly. That was a good analysis. From 1989 to now, the file continues. Actually, the file dates back to the old days. I'll give you a little anecdote. I grew up in Hoeilaart, next to the railroad. When I was little, in the late '70s, in the early '80s, expropriation was already done there for the third track. As Mrs De Coninck said, the third track dates back to the late 1970s. In the course of time, that has gone on and on. We have two GEN stations on line 161. I can assure you that the report also states that these two stations have been put with the full money, as expressed in good Flemish. I mean, what it says, sometimes it's exaggerated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u19	Mr Vandenput, what does full money mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u20	With full money it means it's made with a lot of money. Karine Lalieux, President: Mr Vandenput, I would remind you that your speaking time is limited to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u21	Yes, Madam President, but I will be brief. Above all, we must learn from it and look to the future, because we cannot change what is already there. I have a question about the 60/40 key, which has caused a number of delays, increased expenditure and inefficient executions. I read on page 62 that in practice it is about an 80/20 distribution. I've read that passage three times, but I don't understand how you go from 60/40 to 80/20. Can you explain that? Secondly, political direction. You also say this is a problem. ECMM hardly met or never met until 2012. Who was supposed to conjure that up? Was that the Federal Minister of Mobility? Is there a mechanism for bringing that together? 'Cause then we'll know right away why it was never called together. I come to my third question. I was talking about learning lessons. Now, what lessons would you draw from this and what recommendations would you make to successfully start and finish the other suburban networks in popular Angelic: Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi in the future? Finally, after this report and the discussion with the Minister tomorrow, I think it is also necessary to invite the people of Infrabel to this committee to hear their experiences, specifically about this project, but also to hear how they see the completion in practice. There's 800 million left. You say this is too little, and I think it is, given the challenges. But how do they see it? With what time planning, with what money and taking into account what priorities will this project be completed? Because it has to be finished, otherwise the two billion in it today is dead capital, lost taxpayers' money. And we can't afford that. President Luk Van Biesen: I think we should give the Court of Auditors' advisers and auditors time to centralise the questions and then we can resume the sitting at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u22	Luk Van Biesen, Chair: It is five o'clock, the committee wakes up. We will start again with the answers of the Court of Auditors. Mr de Fays, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u23	Madam President, I will start with the needs and the 800 million missing. Questions have been asked about this. Mrs Temmerman, this is all about infrastructure. As far as rolling stock is concerned, our entire study shows that the RER supply deficit is absolutely not linked to rolling stock. The latter has been completely delivered and it is sufficient. What's left is the infrastructure. There are four key figures. Initially, we have a closed envelope of $1,612 billion. It is clear that, if more financial resources are needed, they will be charged to conventional investment allocations. This amount becomes, in current euros, 2,184 billion. The balance available in current euro is 293.610 million and hence the conclusion is that 800 million are missing. It's a minimum minimorum, of course. Everyone recognizes that there will still be increases. Mrs De Coninck asked if the 800 million could be broken down according to the regions. This cannot really be done according to the Regions, but on page 60 of the French-language version you will find Table 3, at point 4.5.1.1, state of play. There is a breakdown of the 800 million lines per line. The table shows, line by line, the estimated unfunded costs and, therefore, what remains to be financed. For the two least advanced lines, L124 and L161, the estimate of unfunded costs is necessarily the most undervalued and, as a result, increased amounts will have to be taken into account. Whether the amount of 800 million should be included in current euros. Indeed, that is the case. On the Brussels-Europe terminal, there are some interesting questions. This project was fundamental. It was conceived in the early 2000s with the idea of building a TGV terminal in Schaerbeek. It was abandoned in 2003 for budgetary reasons. The article 13 study no longer mentions this project at all. On the other hand, it proposes to make more use of line 28 as an alternative to the Nord-Midi Junction. But there is no longer a TGV terminal. From the start, I think everyone realizes the difficulty of the Nord-Midi Junction. It is a very interesting node compared to other capitals: to have a railway link crossing the capital without having to change stations as is the case in other capitals. This is, however, a very fundamental point. It is interesting to be able to bypass this North-Midi Junction in the east and west. It was here that Brussels-Europe was a very interesting point, and that in different ways. The TGV station is in Brussels-Midi and this is probably due to historical reasons, since the first TGVs made the connection to France and Paris. Nevertheless, TGV's offer has increased and TGVs, which go north or east to Germany and the Netherlands, must pass through the North Midi Junction. If this Brussels-Europe project had materialised, it could have been a large TGV station. It was also interesting for the connection with the Brussels-National airport and to strengthen Brussels as the European capital. Why didn't we do Brussels-Europe? For budgetary reasons, no doubt, and a lack of ambition on the part of the country vis-à-vis its capital. There are, of course, a lot of questions about the 60/40 allocation key. Understand that we do not criticize this key 60/40. This is a political key, which was decided, at some point, between policies, and which was accepted by all signatories. Of course we can discuss the criteria that lead to the 60/40 key, but that is absolutely not our role. The 60/40 key, we understand, applies to all rail investments. It is not just for the RER, but it is all the railway investments financed by the State. It shall be assessed at the end of each calendar year by the two railway companies, which shall be considered as one entity. It's already a problem. There are exceptions to the application of the distribution key: Brussels obviously and rolling stock. Fortunately, rolling stock is not included in the 60/40 key. That would be particularly absurd. Investments in the Brussels-Capital Region and TGV works, given their international dimension, are also not included, nor are investments financed by European subsidies, which are not very numerous. As mentioned in point 4.4.3. of our report, some specific projects financed by the State have also been financed out of key, regardless of the actual amount of work. This is the infrastructure for access to the Brussels-National airport (the Diabolo project), because it was considered that the connection to the Brussels-National airport was a project of national interest; the modernisation of the Brussels-Luxembourg line, because it was considered an international project; and infrastructure investment on the sections located on the territory of the Walloon Region for the L124 and L161 lines, because it was considered a transregional project. But if you look at these different amounts that are removed from the 60/40 key, you actually end up with a 60/40 key. The exception to the 60/40 key is 60/40. How do we get to an 80/20 key afterwards? These are Infrabel's calculations. We didn't validate them. It seems to us quite likely, given that there are, roughly, the same number of kilometres of track in the North and South, that there are investments in maintaining capacity (replace signal lights, everything that is secure, etc.). which is obviously indispensable but which does not increase railway capacity). As the southern region of the country is more rugged, more works of art are more expensive. As far as capacity increases are concerned, we actually come to 80/20. So it's not 80/20 for the RER. It's for the whole thing. There were some thoughts and questions about the cost of setting up certain stations. It's obvious! This is noted in point 4.4.4. of our report. We stress that sometimes very costly investments in station development can also have a negative impact on the implementation of the network's capacity extension work. From the moment we agree on a 60/40 key, we must draw all the consequences and know what we choose as investments and what we consider to be priorities. The 60/40 key led to the fact that work must be stopped once the Walloon share has been used. On the Flemish side, to enable Wallonia to move forward, we are going to make expenses which I would not call useless but which may not be necessary at that time. For example, we're going to build car parks while the breakpoints are not yet operational. It's not very rational. What should we do then? Put a little oil in the wheels by applying this key less strict, less annual? That's to see. There were questions about the timing of the ratification process. The 2003 Convention was established between the four regional ministers but it required parliamentary intervention. It only came into force in 2006, when the draft went around all parliaments. It was the subject of a decree of 27 May 2004, of the Walloon Region of 13 May 2004, of the Brussels-Capital Region of 20 May 2005, of the Flemish Region and of 30 December 2005, of the Federal State. This ratification process did not lead to a change in the draft. It's the same project. The SNCB has still begun some work before the ratification process is complete, but there are delays at all levels. This delay in the start-up has a very damaging consequence compared to the famous article 13 study which was to be carried out within 18 months of the entry into force of the Convention. But I assume that when this convention was planned in 2003, it was not imagined that it would take three years for it to enter into force. Thus, this article 13 study has, moreover, itself fallen behind. I think I pointed it out. The study is more than a year and a half behind 2006, not compared to 2003. It is carried out in 2008-2009. In fact, the study is allocated in March 2008 to a consortium of four study offices, 18 months after the date imposed by the 2003 Convention and the final report is submitted on 22 June 2009, to note that it is obviously technically impossible to implement in 2015 the offer provided for by the 2003 Convention and to propose an interim scenario. And then, we have the 2015 interim scenario that is adopted in 2012. So, again, it takes three years after the submission of the study for a decision to be made. That's what I'm talking about. I may take the floor later, but I now give the floor to my colleague, Mr Moens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u24	I will also confine myself to a number of questions. I will then give the floor to the two auditors who I believe are best placed because they have led the audit on the ground. They can answer the more technical questions better than I do. As far as control is concerned, perhaps first and foremost clearly say that we suspect nothing, quite the contrary. We ourselves have carried out a limited check and we have found no irregularities. The point is that at the same time one is an administrator and beneficiary. This calls for a certain level of vigilance. We believe that the controls currently carried out by the internal audit service and the FPS are somewhat limited, given the size of the amounts. Hence the plea for strengthening these controls. With the system in itself, we can actually live. Despite the dual role played by SNCB, which has advantages and disadvantages, efforts have been made to give this to an independent service, or at least to a service which should be independent. As far as procedure is concerned, this can certainly be justified, but if we look at the checks themselves, they are limited to amounts exceeding EUR 200 000. We believe that this is not enough. The same applies to the FOD. I'm gonna take the 800 million euros. As my colleague has already said, we do not immediately have a table showing the breakdown between the regions. I think Infrabel should be able to give this. We don't have it here. I can say, however, that in the 2013-2025 multiannual plan, appropriations were also entered for the Regional Expressnet. At that time, some 120 million euros were foreseen for Flanders and 542 for Wallonia. I know these are dated numbers, but it still shows something. On the basis of these figures, although a few years ago, we were already at more than 80% that had yet to be published in Wallonia. As my colleague has also said, the problem lies mainly in infrastructure. This is an answer to Mrs Temmerman's question. It is especially there that the EUR 800 million will have to be found. As far as rolling material is concerned, there are no major problems anymore. The problem lies mainly in underestimating the work that has not yet been done. I am thinking of lines 124 and 161 on which we do not yet have a complete view. You know that any delay, and there have already been important ones, is quite rapid. Let's think about the cost of that program office. We therefore expect quite important additional costs, without being able to put a figure on them now. This also raises the question of whether this situation is worse than elsewhere. That question is not easy to answer. In our view, it is certainly worse than elsewhere in terms of delays, because the delays recorded here amount to 17 years for some aspects. In the meantime, however, we have become accustomed to high percentages of extra costs. At present they are at 27 %, which seems to us to be important additional costs. We could, of course, cite examples where these percentages have gotten completely out of hand, but in our view it is an important percentage. In addition, the end point is far from being reached. We don't know where we'll end up. 27 % that is currently a certificate, but we do not know what the future will bring; that is a great unknown. It was asked why there was no funding in 2015. The reason is that it's a closed envelope. In 2014, the target had been achieved. The 2.2 billion had been paid in and thus in principle ended, unless the government decided otherwise by allocating an additional budget for the Regional Expressnet. If this is not the case, the cooperation agreement and management contracts shall apply. This means that resources must be sought in the traditional investment dots. The question about the ratio 60/40 and 80/20 has already been adequately answered. I cannot add much to that in relation to what my colleague has already said. There are two completely different issues at stake. The 60/40 ratio is the distribution of investments in Flanders versus Wallonia. We did not come up with the 80/20 ratio, which actually comes from an Infrabel document. It is purely the ratio of investment in capacity expansion in Flanders to investment in capacity expansion in Wallonia. So these are two completely different things. Mrs Simonis will go into this in more detail, with the figures in hand. They also asked why this fund was abandoned in 2005. Well, it was originally intended that some other partners would participate. For example, it was hoped that concessions from the Regions and third parties would be made. In the end, there has been little intervention; only Europe has received one punctual subsidy. The need to maintain a budget fund therefore disappeared. A different approach was adopted in 2005 and the Budget Fund was closed down and replaced by a GEN Fund. It is called a GEN Fund, but actually it is a kind of account with SNCB that acts as an administrator. A number of examples of delays can be found in our report, including on page 60. These relate essentially to lines 124 and 161. That brings me to the same question, because it has to do with the same thing, in particular the question of underestimations. On page 70 a number of examples of underestimates are given: a number of lines had to be reinforced on lines 161, 124 and 50 and a number of work had to be carried out otherwise because of underestimation of the geotechnical difficulties. There were also works in the tunnels and stations, the Watermaal-Schuman-Josaphat connection, works in closed and difficult places, line 161, a number of works for the railway equipment and equipment of Nossegem bend. These are works that were initially underestimated and where it is also acknowledged that they could have been prevented in whole or in part if better preparation had been achieved. I would like to dwell briefly on that key 60/40 that my colleague has already mentioned. I want to make it clear that this is only one of the reasons for the delay. We have not said at any time that this is the main reason. You can see that there are many other reasons. For the sake of completeness, we have also given Infrabel's position. The Court of Auditors believes that, provided a slightly more flexible mechanism could have prevented certain delays, without, of course, resolving all the delays, most of which have other reasons. Infrabel discussed the idea of a multi-annual distribution key, a key that should be maintained over the years, but did not turn out to be in favour. The main argument for this is that there is a fear that at some point there might be a certain evolution that would be difficult to compensate for if one deviated too far from that 60. There is something to be said for this, so perhaps we need countries somewhere in the middle, allowing for a certain degree of flexibility, but at the same time, to the extent that it is politically appropriate to maintain that key, we need to create the necessary supervision to ensure that we do not deviate too far from that key so that we can correct the next few months or years. That is not easy, of course, and we know it. I now give the floor to Mrs Simonis, who has a lot of figures and will answer you in more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u25	With regard to this famous 80/20 distribution, it was determined on the basis of figures provided by Infrabel, who each year calculates compliance with the 60/40 regional key. As of 31 December 2015, there were EUR 86,700 million for the Flemish Region and EUR 17,500 million for the Walloon Region, which amounts to 83/17. This may explain why, at its Board of Directors on January 25, 2016, Infrabel referred to an 80/20 capacity extension allocation. I think these figures illustrate what is meant by 80/20. With regard to the question raised by Mrs De Coninck concerning the choice of a four-lane or a new link, we have indeed found that there has been a change in the position of the railway companies. We are not technicians or engineers, so we do not know the validity of these positions. The only thing we could notice was that initially we had talked about a four-track approach that would be more expensive than a new link, and then when the multi-year plan for 2001-2012 was drafted, the four-track approach was presented as the most cost-effective solution. So we have two positions that present the technical solutions as the most economical. The only thing I can add is that at the time they calculated the cost of this four-lane set-up and considered it to be cheaper than the creation of a new link, there was a €57 million gap that was allocated to rolling stock. This is the only technical precision I can give you, but the listeners are not able to tell you whether the four-track solution is actually more economical than the creation of a new link. With regard to Mrs Temmerman's question about the reasons for the delays in the introduction of permits, we do not know these reasons. Only companies, including Infrabel, could answer you on this point. On the other hand, within the time limits that have been calculated, recourse procedures should be added to the procedures for obtaining permits. So that's 18 months more eventually 12 months. These figures were given for licensing decisions. The appeals come after and are to be added to those deadlines. Any clarification as to when the RSP will be finalized? We will certainly not move forward, since the minister himself no longer dares to give a date. So we will not give one and we can only refer you to the forecasts that had been put forward on June 15, 2016 by Infrabel, and that are already outdated. I now respond to Ms. Lalieux, who wished to know whether the abandonment of the IPP had resulted in costs. In fact, this abandonment has not caused direct costs, but longer construction sites. The closure of some construction sites, because "abandonment" is a great word, has caused additional costs, since these works must be maintained at a halt. These costs amounted to EUR 45 million, or about 6.7% of the 673 million we mention. The IPP did not cost directly; it was the extension of the construction sites that cost. I come to a final question that concerns erroneous estimates. Some of you have asked questions about stations and car parks. These are striking, with 100% increase. It should be noted that the stations were not originally specifically targeted, nor were the car parks. The multi-year plan for 2001-2012 referred to stations and car parks as a whole, with an allocation of 95 million, but no breakdown on the lines or distinctions were made between the work that was to be carried out. It was not until the 2005 and 2007 management contracts to see much more detail on stations and car parks. Therefore, it is normal, given the basic imprecision, to come now, when the amount of work is more precisely estimated, to a significant increase in the costs of stations and car parks. Moreover, Infrabel spoke, referring to stations and car parks, of a variable of adjustment in relation to the RER Fund. That's to tell you how important the initial imprecision was. Unfortunately, we don't know how to encrypt it. That's why we're up to 100%. I shall now turn the floor to my colleague, Mr Roland, who will answer other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u26	Questions were asked about the sections. If, along a line, you start work in different places without ever finishing a stretch, you do not provide any flexibility. It is necessary to wait until the end of the entire line to be able to value these investments in infrastructure. If you can finish a section, you can partially solve the problems of succession between slower and faster trains, for example by using the additional tracks. By analogy, if you take the modernization of a fifty-kilometre motorway, you start work everywhere and the fifty-kilometres are only open when everything is complete, it will obviously last much longer than if, by section, you open the road to traffic every ten kilometres. With regard to Mrs De Coninck's question on the three or four channels and the choices that could be made, Mrs Simonis was able to give details of the budgetary aspect. In any case, SNCB estimated that the four-lane system provided more robustness to the system and also provided greater safety, as a third-lane system required alternative use to the two-lane system. You raised the issue of how certain decisions of the RER project relate to investment plans, Ms. De Coninck. We are well aware that reading our reports is sometimes a bit depressing, but I must draw your attention to the fact that there is no perfect correspondence between the decisions taken in terms of the objective and achievement of the RSP and the content of the multiannual investment plans. Thus, when the Executive Committee of the Ministers of Mobility, in May 2012, requests the execution of the 2015 intermediate supply by 2018 at the latest, at that time, taking into account the planned investments, SNCB can already say that this will not be possible before a period that can be placed between 2019 and 2022. Similarly, the 2013-2025 multi-year plan foresees several work to achieve the 2015 interim scenario target, but for 2025 – not 2018, as foreseen in the scenario. Questions were also asked about the needs analysis. This is an important aspect, which goes through the whole project. Mrs De Coninck and Mr. Van den Bergh stressed this. As soon as the cooperation agreement was reached, it was planned to prepare a study on mobility needs throughout the country. It has never been achieved, for lack of funding by the State or SNCB. The working groups have worked with representatives of regional societies, which are valuable. In May 2012, when there was a reorientation of the project, the Executive Committee of Ministers of Mobility (ECMM) requested a multi-year programme coordinated between transport companies, integrated and detailed. Unfortunately, the Permanent Secretariat will not be able to validate the proposals received. It did not receive an integrated program, but simply one company-by-company program. It will be necessary to wait until 2016 for the ECMM to relaunch a dialogue on the integration of the offers of the various public carriers. With regard to rail supply and rolling stock, new double-floor cars are expected in 2018 for entry into service in 2019. On the other hand, our analysis shows that the premature decommissioning of AM 66-79 and the Desiro immobilization rate indicates that there is sufficient rolling stock. The fact that the equipment is sufficient does not put pressure on the equipment to quickly carry out the technical interventions on the equipment, which probably explains the 13.7 % technical immobilization rate identified in June 2016 in the SNCB data. In addition to these 13.7 per cent, an operational reserve, "in case", of 5.3 per cent is added. The combination of the two results in a 19 per cent immobilization of the Desiros. The term "immobilization" may lead to confusion. Instead, as of June 2016, 19% of Desiro trains are not assigned to passenger service. In its response, SNCB announced that it is considering reducing this capitalization rate. Why Desiros on InterCity lines? It should be recalled, as was done earlier, that the Desiros are standard equipment, which meets the requirements of RER equipment, but is also capable of running on InterCity lines. There is a first class, and the high maximum speed allows a 160 km/h. Of the 305 Desiros delivered, only 95 were planned for the RER. The balance was therefore projected for the entire network. This standardization brings greater flexibility and interoperability to SNCB, which explains the large operational reserve of all Desiros. As regards the height of the wharfs, in the RER zone, the height of the wharfs is of the order of 55 and 76 cm. The first specification provided for rolling stock capable of serving the wharfs at these two heights. By reviewing all these needs, by increasing the number of equipment ordered and by providing for the circulation of this material throughout Belgium, SNCB had to add a dock height of 28 cm because there are still docks at this height both in the north and in the south of the country. The special specifications have been adapted in this direction and the Desiros equipped with footpaths allowing access to the three types of docks still in use. As far as supply is concerned, consider that when the 2003 Convention is adopted, very ambitious targets are set in terms of the size, frequency and extent of the ER zone. These reflect a political will on mobility and are not based on a feasibility study. Subsequently, the article 13 study made it possible to refine certain things and develop an intermediate scenario when we tried to situate the June 2016 offer against these benchmarks. You will find on page 98 of the report in French and 104 of the Dutch report a map which we will send to the secretariat of the committee so that you can look at it with a greater level of detail. This map sets station by station the status of the June 2016 offer compared to the June 2015 interim scenario, as if all deadlines had come to an end. The stations in red are those for which the offer does not meet expectations and for which the remaining effort is greater than half of the objective. In yellow, it is the stations that do not meet expectations and for which the remaining effort is less than half. In green, these are the stations for which the frequency towards the two poles we have quoted in our presentation is already reached. To answer Mrs Poncelet's question on the mechanism to be recommended, since it is not in the role of the Court of Auditors to draw a new RER card or pilotage device, I can refer you to a Senate information report of May 2016 which explicitly aims at the necessary collaboration between the federal authority and the Regions in order to establish a more integrated public transport offer and plan. This report includes a series of recommendations, in particular in terms of structure, to go beyond the addition of companies and authorities and move towards more specific structures. Karine Lalieux, Chair: Thank you for all of these answers. We did a nice exercise. Is there still a specific question that has not been answered?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u27	I have a brief question about something I didn't understand. What was the percentage of zero trains not intended for the GEN? One more question for Mrs Simonis. Can you give further information on the appeal procedures that have been initiated and which are due to language issues or do you not have any further information on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u28	I can communicate to you in writing the references of successive Council of State judgments which, for their reasons, are based on the use of languages in administrative matters. It turns out that, in particular, in the Brussels Region, the applications had been submitted in French and that the Council of State considered that they should have been submitted in Dutch. I think it is preferable for me to refer you to the judgments of the Council of State on reasons. Karine Lalieux, Chair: This is the cause of the delays. You may send the contact information to the secretariat, if Ms. Temmerman is interested. It is often the use of languages that is called into question in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u29	Madam President, I would like to respond to the number of Desiros. Initially, the objective is to acquire trainsets that will be used only for the RER. It's the 95. This contract is not awarded, in particular because SNCB received bids whose price was considered too high. She conducts a new analysis of her needs by looking at her needs for all relationships and not just for the ER, including ICs. At that time, she added 210 trainsets, hence the 305. The immobilization rates we quote cover all 305 since, in practice, apart from a number of trains that were dedicated for electrification purposes, the equipment can be used on all lines and for all types of relationships. Karine Lalieux, President: I thank all the members and auditors of the Court of Auditors for the excellent exchange we had this afternoon, which will certainly guide us in our future work. Colleagues, before you all disappear, I remind you of tomorrow's agenda. At 11:00 a.m., we are looking at a bill from the minister, if it is not referred to elsewhere by the problem of the overflight. At 12:30 p.m., we will have a communication from the minister, with questions from Members of Parliament, on the dramatic rail accident in Leuven this weekend. It is not necessary to introduce your questions. At 2:15 p.m., we will have an exchange of views with the minister. In the context of this debate, I propose that everyone ask their questions and have 10 minutes or a quarter of an hour. Think about it. Then, the Minister will respond globally on the RSP. Can we validate this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic602x.u30	Yes, but some groups had already asked questions. Karine Lalieux, Presiding: In a debate that we have had – I am speaking under the control of my Vice-Presidents, at least the one here, the secretariat and the minister's office – in order to avoid the hundreds of questions on the ER and following this excellent report by the Court of Auditors, we decided that we would have an exchange of views. I propose that the groups consolidate their statements, but do not pro forma their questions. You can do as you want. But frankly, an exchange of views is more politically interesting than questions. That is what has been sent to each political group, I would remind you, following a meeting between the cabinet, my Vice-Presidents and the Secretariat. Of course, these issues can be raised in your interventions. It is to have a different dynamic than the question-and-answers that I sometimes think is a bit futile; our afternoon of 6 or 7 a.m. with the minister. Do we agree on this way of working? If all the groups are happy, thank you, I wish you a good evening and tell you tomorrow, for a long day together.
