ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u1	Question No 15425 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u2	Mr President, Minister, European Commissioner for Agriculture Phil Hogan has identified three priorities for the new Common Agricultural Policy: a sustainable production model, more resilience in agricultural markets and easier business follow-up. He wanted to launch a first public inquiry at the beginning of next year, because my question dates from last year. The main thrust of this policy is to define an agricultural sector that is more efficient in dealing with its raw materials and becomes climate-smarter. To this end, more investment will have to be made in innovation and new technologies, for which farmers would be compensated. In my opinion, investment in new technologies is a good thing and crucial for farmers to continue to play their part in the economic landscape. The budget would therefore be available to compensate farmers for this. As you know, we are in favour of a reduction in the general agricultural budget. We believe that there are more efficient ways of obtaining the same output, such as insurance. However, if the equal agricultural budget is retained, a budget shift towards technological investment could be useful. In addition, according to that note, more instruments will be available at the level of the individual farmer to cope with a market dip. The chain must react more resiliently, as it is said, and thus become stronger. Income aid continues to play a central role in maintaining the farmer's position in the chain. In addition, the Commissioner wants to cut the administrative burden in agricultural legislation. I cannot get rid of the impression that these are many balloons with little air. The Commissioner is very vague in his proposals, which makes me wonder how this will be implemented. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you whether you have a view of the way and the time at which that survey will take place and who will be included in the sample. In what way will the Commissioner free up the budget to meet the cost of energy-saving investments? In what way does the Commissioner intend to make the chain more resilient and strengthen the position of the farmer, other than the measures that have been taken before? What timing was set for the development of this new policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u3	Indeed, the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, stated on 6 December 2016 that the Commission would communicate before the end of 2017 on the future of the CAP post-2020 with the aim of simplifying the rules. As part of its consultation on the future of the CAP, the Commission launched a public questionnaire on 2 February 2017. Unfortunately, this gives very few indications of the direction the European Commission intends to take with the next reform. I believe that the CAP should be post-2020 simpler, more common and more stable. In parallel, it will be necessary to maintain the two pillars of the CAP. As a reminder, some farmers are still the hostages today of the political consequences of the conflict between the European Union and Russia. It is therefore important that the agricultural budget be kept at a reasonable level. Moreover, the CAP represents between 1% and 2% of the EU's total public expenditure. Let us not forget that this budget makes it possible for European citizens to have access to quality food in abundance. I also note that the markets are becoming more volatile. This factor should also be better taken into account in the future in order to ensure a fair income for farmers. In this context, it is also necessary to consider the introduction of stabilisation instruments. As far as the agricultural budget is concerned, a large number of actors are expecting a global budget which is declining. That is why this aid should be used as well as possible. The European Commission calls for increased use of financial instruments, in particular the resources of the European Investment Bank, but also the state guarantees, which is a good thing. In particular, as regards the strengthening of the farmer's place in the food chain, Member States agreed at the December European Agriculture Council, under the impetus of the Slovak Presidency, to ask the Commission to draw up an impact study on the introduction of a new legal framework to combat unfair B2B trade practices. The Commission has not yet acted on it at this stage. On the Belgian side, we insist that concrete measures, proposed by Mr Cees Veerman, be taken in parallel with other initiatives, in particular the milk package. I would also like to emphasise the role of the presidencies in the follow-up to the recommendations. The main objective of the Maltese Presidency seems to be the problem of access to water. This issue is very sensitive in this Member State. The next Presidency to be held in the second half of the year seems to have the aim of thinking in depth about the CAP post-2020. Finally, I would like to point out that the March 2017 Agriculture Council will have an exchange of views on the future of the CAP, the market situation and work on improving the functioning of the food chain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It seems that we still have a long way to go before we obtain the concrete and structural measures that we have been asking for for a long time. I do not hear you say much about administrative simplification for which agriculture is a very demanding party. I am somewhat pleased that discussions are being held and that an impact study will be carried out on a new legal framework around this unfair trade. You know that we are very much in favour of something finally happening. If it's not European, let's do it ourselves. So I keep repeating that. The agricultural budgets must be used efficiently. I do not hear much about the insurance system that proves its usefulness in America. We also need to think about how farmers can insure themselves against the risks associated with this profession. Anyway, I'll take your answer with me. I hope that at the end of 2017 we will still have far more, better and more concrete proposals that can eventually be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u5	Minister, this is a question that I tabled in December in view of some elements in the press. The European Commission will decide in a few weeks about the battle that has lasted for more than seventeen years between the producers of Ardenne's sausage and two agri-food giants, Ter Beke and Guina. Ter Beke and Guina believe that the name "saucisson d'Ardenne" is generic and not a geographical reference, based on other products such as the Brussels waffles or those of Liège which I believe should also be geographical. The Region referred to a food guarantee. Smoking conditions are not the same in all regions: Ardenne's sausage has local characteristics. A protected geographical indication therefore seems necessary for our Ardenne sausages. To claim the name "saucisson d'Ardenne", it is necessary that the sausage be produced in Ardenne. It seems to me to be a matter of common sense. In any case, that is not what the agri-food sector wants to make sense of. Minister, it is important to protect artisans, small independents and SMEs in the face of agri-food giants and to protect know-how in the face of current junk food. Have you been aware of this case? What steps have you taken to support our regional producers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lalieux, for your very interesting question about the battle of Ardenne's sausage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u7	Member of Parliament, you know other battles of the Ardennes. Here is a different one, that in favor of the sausage and its older brother, the ham of Ardenne. Thank you, in any case, for putting our products in the spotlight on this Tuesday morning of the parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u8	And as a Brusselser, it's also great!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u9	I was well aware of this conflict. I am trying to keep a close eye on everything that concerns agri-food in general, including specific and important issues such as this, which, as you have rightly pointed out, have been opposing the producers of Ardenne's sausage for more than seventeen years now to two companies in the agri-food sector. The fight led by the producers, especially the smallest of them, the Ardennes butchers and their representative structures, as well as by the company Marcassou, is coming to an end (since the moment of your question) because the European Commission has indicated that it will soon grant the request for a protected geographical indication, with the result that only the sausage produced in Ardennes will be able to bear this name in the future, which I am delighted to note. The protected geographical indication (PGI) "saucisson d'Ardenne" will therefore concern sausages produced in part of the provinces of Luxembourg, Namur and Liège and, consequently, productions, enterprises located outside the area I have just described will have to adapt to the European decision. Thus, and in addition, the PGI will offer both a guarantee of production and a guarantee at the food level, without counting on the economic impact for the local enterprises concerned, for the independents concerned and for the trade of these different products. There are also employment implications, as you can imagine. As you know, the geographical indication protects a local product, a product that has a very clearly identified link to a territorial area. This protection concerns the whole of the European Union. Today we are in a jurisdiction that has been largely regionalized. I would therefore like to take the opportunity of your question to insist that the Regions, in the context of the free trade agreements, should in future be able to ensure that applications for production or applications for the introduction of these products covered by protected geographical indications are made so that they can be included in these trade negotiations. As you know, this was not the case with regard, for example, to CETA, to make a link today with current events, since there was no demand, in particular, for regional Walloon products within the framework of IGPs in this context, unlike a whole series of other IGPs at European level covering other productions from other European countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u10	Minister, my question was tabled on December 16. For once, it is good news that comes from Europe and very good news for the Ardenne sausage that will finally be protected, after seventeen years of fighting. It seems a bit long to protect artisanal know-how. Of course, I know that one part is regionalised, but this conflict has been going on for a long time. So, I'm totally happy. On the other hand, if you want to open the debate for CETA, but I am not going to open it, Mr President, indeed, there have been many Walloon demands, and if CETA was not accepted by Wallonia, this is in particular because there was no protection for small craftsmen and artisanal productions. This must, of course, be part of our demands for free trade and therefore for the demands of the federal state, because we know that it is he who negotiates these free trade issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u11	Mr. President, Minister, the tax shift is one of your government's leading points. Under cover of too high social charges and obstacles to competitiveness, the latter has decided to reduce the burden, putting at risk the financing of social security but also the purchasing power of our citizens. The objectives were clear: to make our economy more competitive, particularly in terms of investment, promoting commitments and relieving SMEs. However, the Neutral Union for Self-Employed Persons (NIF) indicates that no additional jobs were created through the tax shift. The real wages of Belgians have declined over the last two years. Taxes have increased. Tax revenues have decreased. And the public authorities have seen their resources reduced. In short, citizens have less services and less quality. The tax shift is slowly moving towards a huge failure. Minister, the SNI, a union of self-employed people (assumed to be the first to benefit from your policy), condemns the effects of the shift tax on employment. This would be a white operation. Given all the budgetary efforts and collateral damage, how do you feel about the position of the NIS? How do you look today at the effects of the tax shift? The real salary, according to the Hans-Böckler-Stiftung research institute, has been declining for two years. We are barely doing better than Portugal and Greece. How do you explain that your measures have contributed more to reducing wages than to increasing them? I am aware that the problem is wide-ranging, but I find it appropriate to launch the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, I have a problem, because the NIS has never said that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u13	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u14	We're talking about something else, then. Your written question refers to the NIS.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u15	In time for me. It is the SDI, the Syndicat des indépendants et des SMEs. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u16	Then we understand each other better. As you know, the SNI awarded me the title of "Minister most favourable to entrepreneurship" last year. Other parliamentarians from different political groups have also been distinguished. So I didn't understand at all. You know the SDI, compared to the SNI. SDI is no longer a recognized organization, unlike UNIZO, UCM, SNI, and a number of other organizations. Very convivially, I urge you to be very cautious about these statements. You have observed that these statements are also completely isolated and contradicted by all the other organisations representing the self-employed and SMEs, as well as by the organisations representing the largest companies. For example, the FEB stated on February 10, 2017 that: "The figures show that tax shift mainly favours employment in the private sector. Employers keep their word: after the tax shift, place at the job lift." I simply think that the SDI has completely screwed up in its analysis. I want to have a live debate with them. In my view, this debate would really not be easy for them. Indeed, like me, you follow the news, you follow the indications of the National Bank, the Institute of National Accounts (ICN), Europe, the successive declarations of the UCM, the SNI, the UNIZO, the FEB. In fact, all the indications go exactly the opposite way. I want proof of the very recent evidence. For example, it is known that last December the National Accounts Institute estimated that 104,000 additional jobs had been created since 2014, including for the self-employed. The number of starters has never been so high. The number of bankruptcies has never been so low. More recent statistics are available on the number of jobs in the private sector. In the third quarter of 2016, it was 2,869,500 positions, an increase of 46,400 units compared to the same quarter of 2015. And all the statistics go in the same direction. I'll keep them at your disposal. Last night, I was still with entrepreneurs. I can assure you that I measure, feel and feel how important something is happening in our economic world, in the activities of our companies and in the self-employed. I can quote you the memory numbers. I love numbers. I read the statistics. I'm decorating them in every way. From 1 January 2015 to 30 September 2016, the number of self-employed increased by 18,400 units. I'm only talking about the self-employed in my main capacity. This represents more than 800 new self-employed persons on a principal basis per month. Some may tell me that it was already the case before. I took back the 2013 figures. Be aware, dear lady, that from January 1, 2014 to September 30, 2016, there were, on average, 5.4 times more independents per month than in 2013, and this is only about the additional independents in their main role. On the other hand, there have never been so many independents on a complementary basis. You're gonna tell me this is an extra job. Be aware, ma'am, that 8% of the complementary self-employed become, within a year, primarily self-employed! After five years, 18.8 per cent of the supplementary self-employed became self-employed in their main capacity. I have lots of numbers. They're all in the same direction. The only thing you can tell me is that the magnitude of these numbers is different. Analysis of the growth rate is important. We've tapped 1.2 growth into our budget. You have read the latest publication of the FEB whose study service is serious and expects a growth of 1.7. The Walloon Union of Enterprises is based on 1.5 and the latest indications are 1.4. These indications are very important because, behind them, there is activity and employment, well-being for our citizens, revenue for the State and the food of social solidarity. If I can, solemnly in this Marie Popelin Hall and under the watchful eye of all the political parties, make a solemn appeal to the opposition that you represent today, it is the one which consists of inviting you to stress also what is well. Act the numbers when they are so uncontested! We can discuss their magnitude and in this I agree with you but deny them is as if – allow me a football comparison – the results of the football championship are there but the Socialist Party does not recognize them saying that they are not the results of the football championship, nor tennis matches, that these figures are not good and that they are not about real jobs! All this, Madam, is contradicted by such serious institutions as the National Bank, the Institute of National Accounts, the European institutions, etc. I am at the disposal of Parliament and do not hesitate to compare all these studies! You'll come back to me and tell me I was probably right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u17	Minister, thank you and we heard your appeal on February 14, this Valentine's Day. Mrs. Winckel, are you convinced by the minister's call for Valentine's Day?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u18	[[I heard the call for rapprochement on this date.]] I heard his answer. This is not the first time we have discussed these figures; we have already done so in plenary. There is one view of the numbers among others. Some are opposed. I invite you, in particular, to read, if not already done, the indicators complementary to GDP that the Federal Office of the Plan has just published. Even if we see an increase in the number of self-employed, what are these figures hiding? To what type of job quality and compensation do we lead? Precarization of the population can be observed. Instead of conducting a sterile majority-opposition analysis, after two years, an assessment and interpretation of these figures could be carried out by an independent body. In Belgium, there is a widening gap between a precarised population and another richer one, which is worrying. Eight hundred and thirty thousand women live below the poverty line. It's also a figure. I support independent status. I would like people to get a job, I advocate all the policies in this area, but the day-to-day reality of these people needs to be examined. A battle of numbers would be useless, but an analysis by an independent body would be very useful. Minister, you are making a solemn appeal to me to reach an agreement and I am sending you a solemn call for an organization to carry out this study.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u19	Minister, if I were to allow myself a little anecdote, I would say that I will pass on your solemn call to Mr Cucke to tell us what positive actions are being taken in Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u20	Minister, you recently commissioned an investigation into possible discriminatory practices of the company currently in charge of managing the kilometric tax. This decision would follow complaints lodged by the Union professionnel du Transport et de la Logistique (UPTR) concerning alleged differentiations between operators, depending on whether they would be charged for their vehicle or fleet in full. According to UPTR, the current system would penalize self-employed and small businesses. With due respect for the investigation, I would like to ask you the following questions. Minister, can you provide us with an outline of the elements that have been brought to your attention and that have led to the initiation of this investigation? What services have been designated to carry it out? When do you expect results? Finally, did you have the opportunity to meet with the various parties on the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u21	Mr President, on the basis of a communication from the company Satellite, which states that fleet billing would now be only available to carriers who pay the kilometric tax in the post-payment system, I have been alerted by a situation which could be discriminatory. Indeed, invoicing per fleet would be refused to carriers who pay by other means: prepayment by transfer or credit card. This practice would therefore be harmful for smaller companies. On the other hand, some carriers reportedly complained that, despite their repeated requests, the invoices drawn up by the company Satellite would be based on a period of ten working days, not on the basis of a full month - as recommended by the accounting logic. This is obviously not without consequence. Secondly, since this issue is related to the regulation of market practices - which is under federal authority - I asked the SPF Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes & Energy for an analysis. This will be handled by the Economic Regulation Branch. I'm waiting for the results. I cannot tell you any timing, since it has not yet been announced to me. Thirdly, the criticisms made against the company Satellite are part of the broader problem, which you know, of the kilometric tax, which is of regional competence. I would leave my role if I had direct contact or prior contact with the company Satellite. However, as Minister for the Middle Classes, Independents and SMEs and Agriculture, I have received many players, many SMEs, many independents and many professional groups from the transport, agricultural, trade and travelling sectors in relation to this taxation, in relation to their concerns, in relation to its practical implementation and in relation to the consequences for the purchasing power of our citizens. At the end of the chain, as far as Belgian carriers are concerned, this tax is, for the most part, passed on to the consumer or to the final customer. If I say "for the most part," that doesn't mean "completely." One part is responsible for transport intermediaries and this situation also impacts their economic activity and creates real difficulties in a number of situations. I have read with caution that in the south of the country it was envisaged to extend the kilometric tax further to a number of other roads, with a complementary impact for the transport sector, for the sectors concerned and for the final customer or the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. The investigation is under way and you do not yet have the results, but we will remain attentive to them. As you said, even if the tax is a regional one, a lot of stakeholders have been concerned about it. You are referring to the possibility of extending this tax to other roads. That is a cause for concern and I am pleased that you can relay it to a number of stakeholders. It is with great care that we will be aware of the results of this investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u23	Minister, the Horeca Federation has announced its intention to present to you the outlines of its project called Just-Horeca. In practical terms, it would be a matter of creating a web platform, supported by a specific application, on which workers could offer their services directly to employers. The particular feature of this system is that the employment relationship will be based on an independent contract in a clear place of service, with a precise duration of time and a rate adapted to the type of work performed and the worker's experience. This relationship can be managed by an independent social secretariat. The Horeca Federation would like to launch this new scheme by taking advantage of the upcoming entry into force of student-entrepreneur status. I would also like to ask you the following questions. How do you look at this project? What possible avenues of support could be provided to raise awareness and promote this platform among the different parties? Finally, do you possibly have data on the proportion of self-employed workers in the horeca sector to date? What are the trends observed in recent years? Thank you for all your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u24	Minister, I will not repeat the presentation of the draft platform. It is clearly a concept of self-employed workers, and the horeca federation calls it so. This project consists of the creation of a platform on which workers will offer hours of service as self-employed. I read in the press that the sector was to present this project to you during the second week of January this year. This is a matter of concern. Have you been able to meet with the representatives of the sector? What came out of the meeting? What is your opinion, as Minister of the Independents, but also of the Middle Classes, on this idea? Does the federal government intend to generalize, or at least value, self-employment through such platforms? Is a minimum wage system on the agenda? I think that without that, all the workers in the sector could pay the price. What would be the impact of such a measure on the financing of social security? This is a bit of a continuation of the first question. We are on the possibility of creating jobs, but what kind of jobs, what type of wages, what type of remuneration, what kind of benefits for the worker?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u25	Colleagues, in relation to your various questions, I will complete by transmitting to you a figure and a detailed evolutionary table by year and by Region, of the number of taxable persons working in the horeca sector. With regard to the Just-Horeca project, I had the opportunity to read about the project of the Just-Horeca platform which the representatives of the Horeca federation came to present to me - so I answer your question - on January 12. The platform would allow certain function profiles of the horeca sector to be proposed and organized as independents. According to my information, however, this platform is still in the project and analysis stage prior to its operationalization. In this regard, it should be noted that the assessment of this concept of self-employment, as defined and understood by the Horeca Federation, will have to be part of the overall revision of the Act on the Nature of Labour Relations. It is a law that has been adapted in the context of the programme law of 27 December 2006, if I recall correctly. This announcement of the comprehensive revision of the Act on the Nature of Labour Relations - in particular the one which defines what it means to be independent and the criteria for doing so and how it is distinguished from wage-earning activity - is part of the plan to combat social dumping as approved by the government last year. What support can be provided to raise awareness and promote the platform among the different parties? At present, it is known that this platform is at the project stage, a think-tank. It is therefore somewhat premature to imagine what could be done to support, raise awareness or promote this platform, since there are issues of operationalisation or the legal framework I have just mentioned. What about the evolution of self-employment in the horeca sector in our country and the trends observed? As of December 31, 2015, INASTI had 42,678 self-employed persons, of whom 24,538 were male and 18,140 were female, working in the horeca sector. What is the trend compared to 2011? In 2011, there were 39,486 subject persons. Thus, there is an increase of 3,192 units, or 8.08 per cent between 2011 and 2015. Until 2014, there has been a steady increase in the number of taxable persons in the sector. However, the increase is declining in 2015, as the number of taxable persons declines from 43,138 in 2014 to 42,678 in 2015, a decrease of 1.07 per cent. In a few weeks, the 2016 figures will be communicated to us. I'll keep them at your disposal. In short: I am listening and I am looking at this platform hypothesis with great interest; of course, all aspects of the project, including its legal framework, must be clearly measured; its promoters can propose the operationalization of the project; and finally, I have all the figures you have asked for - I will ask my collaborator to give them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think it is essential that you be involved from the outset in this reflection. It is important that public authorities be able to secure the legal framework. We will be attentive to the evolution of the case. I understand, of course, that it is somewhat premature to define the avenues to be explored, since we have not yet considered the operationalization of the project. Finally, I would like to thank you for the figures you have given us, which show that there has been a significant increase of about 10% in recent years, despite a decline in the last year. So I'll take a look at the picture.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that this is a new project. It is therefore appropriate to allow time to analyse the consequences. This project may be a good idea, but the effects on social security or the worker must be properly measured. One of the objectives of this platform could be that employers would no longer bear certain social security charges relating to invalidity benefits, the thirteenth month, holiday pay, etc. This is why quality in terms of employment must be maintained - both for employees and for self-employed people. I would like to draw your attention to this. The excessive flexibility of jobs has negative effects which are not sufficiently measured.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u28	Mr President, Minister, at the end of December, you conducted an electronic survey to enable consumers and traders to comment on the current legislation governing sales. Eighty-five people participated in the survey, and the results vary from consumer or trader point of view. Although a very large majority of respondents want to keep the balances, the three-quarters still want to move them. Consumers prefer it to take place in December, while traders advance the February date. In addition, the almost unanimous wish of traders to retain the waiting period preceding the balances. Minister, what analysis does your department make of this investigation? What solution could result from this? Do you think that this survey has obtained a sufficient number of participants to be representative? Is it possible to give the profile of the participants? In addition to this survey, what is your department's view the most appropriate solution to the European and Belgian legislative framework, which would, I dare say, favour consumption? What are the next steps and meetings to reach an agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u29	Mr President, Minister, companies are allowed to sell their goods at reduced prices twice a year. They may organise solders. In order to ensure fair market practices, companies should only do so during the two selling periods laid down by law, namely in January and July. However, the climate is changing and some shopkeepers vote to move the solder periods. They propose to allow this to continue a month later. This is also happening in a number of neighbouring countries and other European countries. Minister Peeters, to whom I asked the question at the end of last year, replied that he would have it investigated. He would also have it examined whether the proposal was widely accepted. For example, a previous survey at UNIZO showed that 63 percent of fashion stores were in favour of a shift. The question is, of course, how shopkeepers in other sectors and in the south of the country see this possible adjustment of the solder periods. That's why Minister Peeters felt that a more extensive inquiry was needed. In addition to UNIZO, Test-Achats, Comeos and NSZ were asked about their position on this matter. In order to give everyone the opportunity to express their views, both shopkeepers and citizens, as Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed and SMEs, you have made a call to ask for opinions and receive contributions from everyone. A specific email address was created to which comments could be given. In November, the High Council for the Self-employed and SMEs and the Consumer Council were asked to give an opinion on this matter. Their opinions were expected at the end of February. Minister, since when has the e-mail address been in use? How many emails have you received in the meantime? Are they e-mails from retailers and consumers? Whose are these mostly from? What is your preliminary conclusion based on the e-mails submitted? Have you received the advice of the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs and the Council for Consumption? If so, what is their advice? If not, when do you expect these advice? Minister Peeters is also competent in this matter. He indicated at the end of last year that he would like to investigate further a change in the solder periods. Did you, as Minister of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Self-employed persons, contact Minister Peeters to look at the file together? If so, what is the result?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, several associations have recently expressed their views in favour of a transfer of the solder periods. To hear everyone, I have created a specific e-mail address to receive the opinions, questions and contributions of everyone. It was my intention to give everyone the floor indefinitely. Following the call I received almost 850 mails, of which 39 % of shopkeepers and 59 % of consumers; 2 % of mails came from others, schools and so on. Although it is not a question of scientifically verifying the representativeness of the sample, the balanced distribution reinforces the importance of the answers, knowing that we have also analysed the content of the opinions on the basis of the profiles. I was impressed by the commitment and concerns of the citizens and the shopkeepers. The desire of 76% of respondents is to maintain the balances. This is the key lesson of this consultation. Respondents are therefore committed to the balances and to the principle of maintaining them. A majority of consumers want the period of sales to be maintained and an overwhelming majority of traders follow this trend. However, both groups remain concerned about a number of phenomena, such as the impact of e-commerce on business and the importance of cross-border trade competition. I told you that 76% of the people consulted were in favour of maintaining the balances, with 24% arguing for total freedom in this area: no period of pay, reductions – balances or other forms of reduction – at any time of the year. Of the 590 people who want to maintain balances, 76% want the dates to be displaced. This trend is very marked among traders but is also present among customers. Thus, 84% of the traders who responded wanted the period of the balances to be moved, as did 67% of the customers. I repeat to make it clear: 76% of respondents want to maintain periods of pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u31	A period?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u32	A period! Here we are talking about the phenomenon, the mechanism of balances. And 24% are in favour of abandoning the balances and putting in place a system of reduction when desired during the year and in all forms. Among the 76% of respondents who were in favour of maintaining balances, there were different expressions. 76% of them want the balances to be displaced (84% of traders and 67% of consumers). But the movement is not in the same direction. Customers want to advance the period of sales, mainly to take advantage of the discounts for winter purchases, for end-of-year purchases and to avoid purchases abroad. Merchants, on the other hand, are very much in favour of postponing the dates of the sale, with the aim of better "pasting" to the climatic conditions and thus better respecting the needs in terms of the season. They would also like to see a laying planned between the end-of-year holidays and the beginning of the sale, etc. However, traders in the regions closest to the borders indicated that they were less favourable to carry forward balances because they feared that purchases would be made across the border. That's for the winter sale! As far as summer balances are concerned, only 18% of consumers have expressed their views on this matter. Traders were more likely to express themselves (65%). On the other hand, the movement of balances seems to be less of a concern to respondents, perhaps because it is referred to as a more distant deadline or because it concerns other parameters. 38% of respondents did not comment on the barrier period. As a reminder, during the barrier period, shopkeepers active in the clothing sector, leather goods and shoes may not announce price reductions or distribute vouchers giving entitlement to a price reduction during the barrier period, except joint offers, grouped articles, etc. We see that opinions are divided between customers and shopkeepers: 91 per cent of shopkeepers do not want to abolish the barrier period, while 67 per cent of consumers favour abolition. In addition, 64% of traders want this waiting period to be strengthened. This is no surprise, consumers and traders have a different vision here. The content of the responses also demonstrated the many facets of this file. It expresses serious concerns on the part of local traders, particularly in their relations with large areas and chains. Other considerations have been raised concerning, of course, compliance with European rules, the growing development of e-commerce, the evolution of consumer purchasing behaviour and the evolution of certain commercial practices in or supposed to emanate from large chains. I'll give you all these numbers so you can look at them head-rested. As far as the future is concerned, this is a competence that I share with my colleague Kris Peeters. So we need to work together to choose the policy directions of the legislation, and then they need to be endorsed by all of the government's colleagues. We have sought the advice of the Consumer Council and the Higher Council of Independents and SMEs. I have just received the opinion of the Consumer Council. The Higher Council of Self-Employed and SMEs is expected by the end of February. As soon as we are in possession of all these opinions, Kris Peeters and I will not fail to come back with proposals. It is too early to communicate them, since we are still awaiting the opinion of an important body. This is a summary of the lessons learned from these 850 expressions. I must confess to you, to have read them all meticulously, that their set is indicative of a certain feeling, of a certain atmosphere and of certain expectations, whether they emanate from consumers, traders or professionals in their diversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u33	Minister, with you, a summary is quite consistent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u34	First of all, I think your Dutch is excellent too, Minister. Mr Minister, thank you for your answers, which are much more precise than the information we received in the press. I can only congratulate you on the initiative you have taken, because this is an important subject. Consumption patterns change due to digital change and by region. I come from a border area and I can observe the differences in consumer behaviour, whether in periods of sales or pre-balances. I am pleased that, together with your colleague Kris Peeters, you are considering concrete proposals with a view to taking into account the considerations expressed in this survey as best as possible. I'm looking forward to the continuation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply; this cannot be said of all ministers. I am glad that you have put what you already have on the table and that you have already partially analysed the reactions. Of course, the reactions do not surprise me at all. As a consumer I would also prefer to buy my winter clothes a month earlier with a serious discount than to have to wait until spring. That makes sense. In this way one could benefit even more from clothing that one should still buy for winter. Of course, if we were to be able to make purchases in December instead of January, this would be better. As a trader, I would, of course, also like the solders to be shifted until after winter. I do not know when you will expect the advice of the Supreme Court for the Self-employed and SMEs. Then you will consult with your colleague, Minister Peeters. Since opinions are going to advance and leave in the two directions, it may well be that the system is being kept as it is. I look forward to the advice and any changes to the solder periods. Can I also ask you to receive the documents with all the figures, because I have not been able to write down everything? Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u36	Mr. Secretary, the booking.com website provides a third of all bookings of a hotel room. Apparently, the Belgian hotel chains or hotel operators are not really satisfied with booking platforms such as booking.com and expeditia.com. What's the problem now? Hotels have to pay a substantial commission to them. The problem there is that the hotels themselves should not be allowed to apply a lower rate than the rates indicated on the booking sites. The Belgian hoteliers claim that they are held hostage by online providers and no longer master their prices. The odd thing is that both in France and Germany, prices can be lower than what booking.com actually prescribes. My questions on this matter are threefold. Firstly, Minister, are you aware of the complaints or disagreements that exist with regard to hoteliers? Secondly, do you take action? Thirdly, what measures would these be?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u37	Mr President, Minister, on 2 February, the three horeca federations in Belgium sent a letter to your cabinet asking for the end of the so-called "close parity" clause. This clause obliges hotel operators not to charge lower rates than those on the websites of the online reservation centres, including Booking.com, one of the largest players in the sector, is an emblematic example. This situation has a negative impact on workers in the sector. In particular, hoteliers depend on prices set on the internet. This situation is all the more penalising for hoteliers as they already pay these online platforms an important commission (up to 23%). The game of competition is thus biased. Germany, France and Italy have cancelled this clause. You confirmed receipt of the mail. You also indicated that you were waiting to see if Booking.com would adapt its terms and conditions. Otherwise, you talked about the possibility of legislating, like the Macron law in France. Minister, how did Booking.com react? Will the site adapt its terms and conditions? Have you contacted any other online booking sites? What is your intention to legislate? Is the government following you in this direction? Is a bill under development? If so, what would this law consist of? Can you give us some background?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u38	Mr President, Minister, everything has already been said to identify the problem of the narrow parity clause. The three Belgian federations horeca sent you and your colleague Mr Peeters a letter asking for an end to the narrow parity. You have said in the meantime that you want to move forward on this issue, even if you propose a bill if the online reservation centres do not change their way of doing things. Minister, have any contacts been made? If so, what has been the content of it and what has emerged from it? What is the position of the online reservation centres? We know that France has already legislated on this matter. In Belgium, is a bill on the agenda? What time did you set to try to solve the problem? It can really be problematic for hotels not to be able to determine their rates. They are blocked and cannot reduce their prices if they consider it necessary. It would be important to be able to legislate on this matter before the next summer break. This could be a positive sign towards the Belgian horeca sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u39	Mr President, the Horeca federations of the country's three regions have recently sent a letter to you and to your colleague Mr Peeters in charge of the Economy and Employment, asking for intervention by the public authorities in the face of this narrow parity clause. These federations consider that this clause prevents competition which is likely to benefit the consumer and that it is all the more detrimental to the activities since traders also pay a large fee to these booking centres. When we know how important hotel reservations are on the Internet and, in particular, via certain commercial platforms, we can understand that some entrepreneurs feel that they are being taken hostage by this clause promoted and supported by web actors. As my colleagues have mentioned, it seems that the representatives of Horeca are advocating a law that would abrogate the possibility of using this clause, as is already the case in other neighbouring countries such as France, Germany and Italy. Minister, can you confirm receipt of this letter and indicate your position on this file? According to the information at your disposal to date, what is the importance of using this so-called "close parity" clause in the Horeca sector? Have you had the opportunity to receive these representatives in order to discuss them orally and to discuss together the difficulties mentioned in this letter which has been mentioned? What solutions can be considered in synergy with your colleague in charge of the Economy and Employment to relieve these entrepreneurs and strengthen a better and more consumer-friendly market logic?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u40	Minister, may I ask you to make a good summary of your response to these four questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u41	Mr President, his weaknesses must be recognised: it is true that I am not the best interlocutor in terms of summary! First of all, I would like to thank you for your questions referring to my press release on the dominant position of online reservation centres. Indeed, I have been in contact with the four most representative organisations in the hotel sector, namely the Fédération Horeca Wallonie, Horeca Brussels, Horeca Flanders and Brussels Hotel Association. Representatives of booking.com were also received on my cabinet. I consider the current situation to be abnormal. I would point out, as you have done very well, that the use of narrow tariff parity clauses prohibits the hotelier from offering lower prices on his own website than on the website of an online agency. So the merchant finds himself in a state of embarrassment. In view of the close relationship between Booking.com and the hotel sector, I wanted to receive a unanimous opinion from the latter, so as to ensure that this request came from all the interlocutors. You know that this is a sector with a wide variety of structures and organisation. I confirm receipt of this unanimous letter. Similarly, I confirm that these practices of narrow tariff parity are prohibited in Germany, Italy and France. The latter two countries have even enshrined the prohibition in question through a law. After analysing this dossier, I felt that it was necessary first of all to adapt our legal framework. Secondly, given the status of the case, I do not think that the Belgian Competition Authority's formal investigation is the most appropriate means of resolving this issue, since I find that it is by law that other countries have solved this problem. On the other hand, a law is drafted only if it is necessary. If Booking.com had spontaneously removed this type of provision, then it was not necessary to decide a law. Voluntaryly, we gave the organization time to react. Perhaps as a result of our parliamentary work, we will observe a reaction, but at this stage this restrictive provision for our hoteliers has not been removed. I have proposed to my colleague in charge of the Economy, co-pilot in this matter, to use and prepare a law, in order to solve this problem in Belgium and to build a legal framework as suitable as that laid down in Germany, Italy and France.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u42	Minister, I can only thank you for your answer and note that you do realise that there is a need to solve this problem. We will give you our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u43	Mr Janssens, that was a brief reply, for which I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u44	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. If Booking.com does not react, it is important that we move forward and legislate. We will therefore, of course, be attentive, but a priori benevolent, to the proposals that you will put on the table. Indeed, we must react as quickly as possible. We therefore look forward to the texts you will be presenting to us with your colleague, Mr Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u45	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I hear you're giving Booking.com the opportunity to react. But other platforms may also offer online bookings and use this narrow rate parity clause. In doing so, in my view, it is not only necessary to specifically target Booking.com. Indeed, in the future, other booking sites could work in this way. I therefore propose that we opt directly for a legal framework in order to protect the Horeca sector and the hotel sector. Many initiatives are being taken to ensure that tourism resumes in our country. We must be able to support our independents in the hotel sector without delay. I therefore call for the creation of a legal framework in this area, as Italy and France are already benefiting from it. I have taken note of the fact that it is Mr Peeters who will be responsible for this dynamic. I guess you're both on the same wavelength. In any case, we will have an opportunity to have an exchange of views on this matter with your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u46	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to return for a moment to Mrs Winckel's speech. As I understand it, the minister used the time. He "leaved" the chance. You are now working, Minister, on this bill in collaboration with Minister Peeters. We can only congratulate you on that. Indeed, you cannot be blamed for wanting to leave an opportunity to these platforms. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that it is not necessary to stigmatize one more than the others, as many of them resort to this type of practice. In any event, for my part, I believe that the legal framework is the right tool from the moment when there was no spontaneous reaction in the head of these platforms. A law will help relieve the various entrepreneurs active in the horeca sector, but also strengthen a better market logic that will ultimately be favourable to all consumers. We will therefore be following closely the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u47	Minister, I have already questioned you in the past about the reform of the Order of Architects. The report of 16 December on the discussion of your policy paper examined progress in the reform of the Architects' Order. You were asked when the bill would be submitted. You replied that the reform of the Order of Architects due to various state reforms, the federal structure and the transfer of powers to the Region would not go smoothly. However, you did expect the dossier to be completed in February 2017. I prepared this question in mid-January. Meanwhile, the deadline is near, hence my questions, Minister. Has the reform been completed in the meantime, or where do you stand with it? If you have not finished the reform, can you give us a timing? In that case, when do you expect to be able to submit the bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u48	Mrs De Coninck, in the context of the discussion of my policy paper, I did indeed propose the completion of the reform of the Architects' Order in mid-February. Meanwhile, a unanimous agreement was reached with the sector on reform and a reform text. It is the subject of inter-kabinnet working groups. Of course, a draft can only be submitted to Parliament when an agreement is reached at government level. Since, in my humble opinion, the draft lays down an optimal structure and, given that it enjoys the unanimous agreement of the sector, I hope to reach an agreement soon and to come to Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you report that there is a unanimous agreement with the sector. That's good. The sector was calling for this reform. As you know, we have also tabled a legislative proposal ourselves, and we have also launched initiatives together with the sector. It is very good that you, as Minister, have drawn this work towards you. I understand that it is now at the level of the Inter-Kabinette Working Group and that it will then come to Parliament. We will, of course, continue to follow up this dossier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u50	Mr President, Minister, on 23 January the European Agriculture Council met in Brussels and this has not gone unnoticed. Delegations from EMB, FUGEA and Via Campesina are displeased with the stock of milk powder that would be withdrawn from intervention and put back on the market. They fear that the milk price, which is now at a reasonable level, will be hit. They have therefore argued for a permanent crisis instrument. They call for a mandatory system of flexible production regulation. Among other things, the Boerenbond has already indicated that it is not in favour of this. In their view, the cost of compulsory reduced milk production ultimately lies with the dairy farmer and it also affects our international competitiveness. A number of other agricultural associations also advocate temporary and voluntary production restrictions. They want the milk powder to be placed on the market in intervention only very gradually so that it does not disturb the attracting market. That way, the milkman's position doesn't go back to square one. In our view, it would be a bad idea for our economy and ultimately for our farmers if there were a compulsory system of production restrictions. We want to focus on voluntary production restrictions, but with proper compensation for the loss of income suffered. Moreover, more and more voices are being voiced at European level to give real importance to insurance as a price or income stabilising mechanism. In this way, the market can regulate itself instead of being centrally regulated. I come to my questions, Minister. What was discussed at the last Agriculture Council? Voluntary production restrictions on milk have been maintained for several months. What will happen to this measure in the future? It was your own words that it would be a catastrophe if large quantities of milk powder were now marketed. How are you going to ensure that this does not happen, that it gradually enters the market and that it does not affect the price of milk too much? What do your European fellow Members think of the proposal from the protesting delegations? Once again, my question is, to what extent are the European minds ripening to work towards this insurance system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u51	Mr Minister, following the European Agriculture Council on 27 June, I asked you about the avenues explored for an end to the milk crisis. At the time, the situation was much more boring than it is now, since last August the real price of milk did not exceed 25.86 cents per litre, a drop of more than 35% since the Russian embargo was introduced two years ago. Nevertheless, in this somewhat, if not very dark, two promising signals were observed, namely that production tended to stabilize and that the prices of certain dairy products (butter, skimmed milk powder, etc.) were stable.), had increased sharply. Since the introduction of the Russian embargo, the European Commissioner has presented three support plans for the dairy sector: financial aid of EUR 500 million, the possibility for cooperatives to agree on production volumes and for Member States to assist their producers in the amount of EUR 15 000 and a new plan of EUR 500 million, including an envelope of EUR 150 million for a voluntary reduction in production. At an informal Agriculture Council in Slovakia, Belgium called for greater market regulation by the European Union, a strengthening of the European Price Observatory and greater transparency of the chain. In this respect, the Belgian Competition Authority carried out a study on the basis of reports from the Belgian Price Observatory or complaints from operators. Mr Minister, following the European Agriculture Council which took place at the end of January, can you give me a quick assessment of the situation? Can you tell me where the task force on agricultural markets is? Do you have the results of the study carried out by the Belgian Competition Authority? If so, can you communicate them to us? If not, can we know when this study will be available?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Phil Hogan said at the European Agriculture Council on 23 January 2017 that he did not understand the manifestation for two reasons. Firstly, because the milk price has increased on average by 25% since August and, secondly, because the Commission does not put its milk powder stocks on sale, but also refuses offers submitted to it. Only 40 tonnes of the 345 000 tonnes of stored milk powder have so far been put on the market again. I would stress the fact that European stocks account for nearly 4 billion litres of milk. The current situation remains therefore extremely vulnerable. The Commission has said that it is closely following the evolution of the market. What was Belgium's view? Of course, I am very closely and regularly the evolution of all markets, especially the various markets linked to milk production. In our country, the average price of milk paid by members of the Belgian Confederation of Dairy Industry (CBL) was 37 cents per litre in December 2016. Prices in July averaged 22.5 cents. We therefore see a very large increase of almost 60 per cent in just five months. As regards Belgian production, it was growing in 2016 compared to 2015. In 2015, Belgium produced 3.56 billion litres and in 2016, 3.68 billion litres, an increase of 3.2%. At the European Council of Agriculture Ministers on 23 January, I stressed that it was still too early to assess the impact of the measures in the September 2016 plan. Indeed, cash aid can be paid until 30 September 2017 and we do not yet have information on the actual production reduction linked to the production reduction plan. However, it is known that this production reduction plan has been a success at European and Belgian level. I now come to our demands. I call for the substantial European stocks of milk powder to be largely distributed among the most disadvantaged within our European borders. I regret that the Maltese Presidency and the Commission remain too vague about the implementation of the recommendations of the Agricultural Markets Task Force. I believe that the stabilisation instruments can contribute to a certain stabilisation of revenue, but such instruments need to be considered and consulted with all sectors. As far as the CAP post-2020 is concerned, Commissioner Hogan has stated that the following is on the agenda for 2017: a public consultation, a conference to present its results, and finally a communication at the end of this year that will outline the broad lines of the future CAP. As I mentioned earlier, simplification, sustainability, management of market volatility and employment in the sector are important elements for the future of the common agricultural policy. Be assured that I remain extremely careful, in consultation with the Regions, to create the framework for strengthening the economic situation and prospects of our dairy producers, in particular. Mrs Cassart, with regard to your third sub-question on the Belgian Competition Authority's investigation, an investigation is under way into a possible agreement on fruit prices. The Belgian Competition Authority interviewed certain fruit growers and/or distributors in September 2016. This body works in a completely independent manner and can carry out investigations on its own initiative on the basis of reports published by the Belgian Price Observatory, for example, or on the basis of complaints from operators or at my request what has not happened at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I know your commitment to agriculture. It's not about that for me. However, I do not get an answer to a number of questions. I also do not understand why the Commissioner does not understand the action. He does not have to answer their question, but I do understand the concerns of the sector. We do not want to go into this question of introducing this compulsory system of production. I understand, however, that the recovery of the milk market gives farmers, the milk farmers, the chance to build up a little reserve again. That remains very vulnerable. The fear of the milk powder returning to the market is good. We all know the outcome of this. I will never get an answer to my question as to what the European fellow Members of these delegations think. One day I would like to get an answer to my question as to what Europe thinks about an insurance system. I think we really need to think about that. This insurance system can prevent us from having to look for financial resources in the future, in every crisis in agriculture. Then we can intervene immediately to keep those farmers on board. I urge you to take this system with you to the European Commission and to defend it hard there. I think there is some future music in that for our farmers. That is much better than having to look for resources and find out à la minute crisis measures every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u54	Minister, thank you for your full answers. Ms. Gantois spoke of an insurance opportunity. I think the issue can be debated. But we realize that Belgium has always been the first to ask for and propose solutions. It is clear that this sector requires some stability. If there is still much work to be done, we have some tools that you are implementing, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u55	As regards the return of stocks, the Commission considers that, given that it has placed the bar very high in price terms and that only 40 tonnes have actually been marketed, its proposal is unlikely to destabilise the market. It is in this sense that I said that Phil Hogan did not understand at all the reasons for the demonstration. In addition, concerning price insurance, it is an interesting system, which has been the subject of academic research and research. There is a very important question here: how is the financing mechanism for these insurances organised? Will considerable resources be sought in the common agricultural policy to finance this system? There is a lot of research in this respect and this will be the subject of a debate in our discussion on the future of the common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u56	Minister, I also know that it is not so obvious, of course, but if we do not examine it and look at the possibilities, for example in other countries where it does work, we will never know. However, I am pleased that it is being taken into account in the debate, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u57	Minister, I am glad to have heard your clarifications. It is clear that an insurance pole can represent a boon and stabilize the situation. However, we must realize that all sectors of agriculture are concerned. At the moment, this is dairy production, but this case may also affect cereal cultivation, cattle farming, etc. You say that much of the CAP could be destined for this insurance pole, but I would urge you to be cautious as the implementation of this policy is still waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 16102 16581, both by Mrs Smaers, will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u59	Mr Minister, on 3 February, you presented a first barometer of SMEs and self-employed people, in collaboration with the SPF Économie, an interesting initiative which enables us to objectively measure the major trends concerning this fundamental part of our economy, whether at Belgian level or at the level of our Regions. The barometer contains some very interesting elements. I have listed a few of them here and I would like to have your opinion on some of the figures. Firstly, there were 863,165 SMEs in Belgium at the end of 2015, representing 99.3% of Belgian enterprises and 77 SMEs per 1,000 inhabitants. This is an important figure, even if our neighbouring countries have an even larger ratio. It's already significant. Second, at the end of 2015, 79.65% of these SMEs - a constantly growing figure - were single-member companies without employees. Third, the self-employed population is ageing. This is logical, given that this is the trend of the general population, but this figure is worrying because the share of older self-employed people has grown by 27.5 per cent over the last six years, compared with only 13.3 per cent for those under 35. This is reminiscent of the major societal but also economic stake of the transmission of enterprises since all these independents, these entrepreneurs will have to give up their business and that they are often, as we know, not prepared to do so. The fourth point that caught my attention was the fact that almost 24 per cent of the self-employed are complementary, which is a very high proportion compared to our neighbouring countries. Somewhere, therefore, the figures for the total number of SMEs are somewhat inflated. Finally, about one in three independents is an independent; this figure is growing slightly, even though there is still a good margin of progress. You know that this subject of female entrepreneurship is dear to ecologists. We have already had the opportunity to discuss it here together. Steps have been taken by yourself and by the government. I hope that we can continue to support this trend together, that rebalancing, I would say, to have as many independents and entrepreneurs as entrepreneurs in the future. These findings lead me to ask you the following two questions. Minister, what are the reasons for the large proportion of single-person businesses? We have already discussed the new measures you have introduced recently, such as the "zero lifetime contribution" measure so that SMEs and self-employed people can make a first commitment. It is known that this is often the problem of hiring a first employee. However, this proportion of single-person enterprises is still very high. Are there no other factors than the cost of labour? It would be difficult to lower the cost of work more than with zero contributions. Is there anything else? I'm pretty sure there's something else. Do you have any numbers? How do you feel about this? Is it a question of training, lack of support, lack of information? I think it's an important subject. The second thing that emerges from these figures is that corporate transmission is again proving to be a major issue, in relation to the evolution of the age pyramid. It is a cross-cutting subject, which concerns several levels of jurisdiction, including the Regions and the Federal State. Do you intend to take an initiative at the federal level? Mr President, perhaps we could consider holding hearings on the subject, which is fundamental at the economic level. In any case, we wish to make progress on this subject. We have also just tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject. If my memory is good, it was taken into account in plenary two weeks ago. We wish to make progress on this subject, in consultation with the Regions. The federal government must also get involved, for example by using the tax lever that is important in this area. I wanted to have your feeling, your analysis on these two points.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u60	Mr Vanden Burre, if the minister allows, I will already answer as far as I am concerned. On Tuesday, 21 February, the first item on the Committee's agenda will be the organization of work. It is at that time that requests for hearings or specific requests should be made. We did the exercise a few days ago. There have already been many requests, in connection with bills or other matters. In any case, nothing prevents us from making a proposal. It will be discussed by the committee next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u61	Mr President, honourable Member, I am open and at your disposal to listen to or participate in the work you would decide to do in this regard. Mr President, I am very pleased with the publication of this first scoreboard for SMEs and self-employed people because it is full of teaching. In order to try to help the sector as much as possible, it is necessary to measure its situation and expectations as well as elements of economic development, for example. This tool will be regular and will be used to measure the impact of a number of decisions taken in favour of SMEs and self-employed people. There are many things to be removed from this document and you have illustrated some of them, including the fact that the percentage of companies with no employees is very large and that between 2013 and 2015, this percentage increased from 79.04 per cent to 79.65 per cent. This situation must be compared to the basic one, which is the growth in the number of self-employed in Belgium. Between 2007 and 2015, the number of self-employed increased by 18%. A series of measures concerning the social status of the self-employed, taken by the minister who preceded me or myself, help to strengthen the decision of the candidates entrepreneurs to move on. I believe that these findings are further strengthened in 2016, according to a number of figures that have just been communicated to me. You're asking the question from the first-time employers. When asked, they mentioned three main elements concerning the obstacles to hiring: the cost of employers' costs, administrative complications and the difficulty of having the expected workforce in certain sectors and/or regions. We have therefore worked with you to remove the main social contributions for the first commitment and decrease for subsequent commitments for thirteen quarters. It is well known that the problem of administrative burdens and their complications must also be addressed. Together with my colleague the Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification, I am finalising the implementation of a series of concrete measures to facilitate the lives of self-employed and SMEs, so as to also work on this second element. There is a third element: the question of mentality, state of mind and the global environment. I come to the lack of training for young people. You are right, this element, in this case the fact that employers are not finding the skills or talents expected in their activities, is also important. You know that we are here within the scope of regional or Community competences, and we must work hard on these elements at this level. The transmission of enterprises is another important topic. Indeed, it is known that the number of companies to be handed over over over over the next ten years is considerable; some even go so far as to mention the number of 300,000 companies to be put back in the next decade. It seems to me, therefore, that we need to work even harder on this issue. As you know, this is a regional competence, and the Regions have put in place certain things in this respect: regional platforms, accompanying structures, etc. But I'm available. You are making this suggestion through your resolution recently tabled in Parliament. I am available to discuss a cooperation agreement between the federal government and the federated entities, as this is a major element. Let us first preserve what exists, while at the same time making efforts to create what will exist in the future, in a complementary way. The self-employed, as a complement, deserve a great deal of thought. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is also a front door for the main activity. A report I recently received from the Conseil Supérieur des Indépendants et des SMEs indicates that 8% of the complementary self-employed become self-employed primarily after one year, and just over 18.4 or 18.5 % became self-employed primarily after five years. It's an interesting element. This status is one of the front doors. I will give you this report on the self-employed as a complement, because it is a mine of analysis. I will also make proposals on self-employed people as a complement, because the number is large and growing, as you have pointed out. They really deserve to think about their status, and how to create the optimal framework for their situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u62	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answers. I will not make an inventory of it, but it is important to be able to go to the bottom of things in order to be able to analyse the various causal factors. Depending on the organization of the commission's work, we will see. We know there are many scheduled hearings. I see you eyebrow, Mr. President. We'll do as we said; we've given a lot of energy. My Ecolo colleagues are very pleased with this, but less so. This is another debate. The subjects on the table are of at least equal importance. Transmission seems to be an important topic. We'll see how to organize. I take note and am rather pleased to hear that the Minister is open to these discussions and to see that we will be able to build together solutions that will create employment within the structures of the FTEs and the self-employed, stimulate quality jobs as well as sustainable jobs, and both respond to the obvious aging of our entrepreneurial population. We will come back very soon and thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u63	Mr President, Minister, my question is indeed about the black box, the smart cash register or the white box. There are several words to designate the same object. Minister, the horeca sector seems to be quite unanimous on the issue of black boxing. He felt that measures should be taken to combat unfair competition and black-out work. Nevertheless, it is also unanimous in denouncing the white box, established after numerous legal twists. Since its establishment, it seems that several restaurants have had to close for a few days, remove services or even abolish their activity. However, the closure for a few hours, a few days or the cessation of any activity results in a slowdown in the development of these enterprises and a decrease in their visibility. Today, the sector is clearly strangled and strongly denounces the government's immobility. Their concerns need to be heard and, above all, they need to be addressed. At the sector level, a few answers are put on the table, such as a drop in VAT. What is your position on this? Another avenue proposed by the Belgian Restaurants Association (BRA) is to increase the tax deductibility of restaurant fees for self-employed and private individuals. What is your position on this matter? What is your reaction to the sector, which denounces the outdated side of the technology used in the black box? In early February, it was learned, among other things, that 12,000 smart cash registers had to be replaced. What about this? Currently, restaurants use black box and others do not. In doing so, the sector denounces a form of social dumping in Horeca? What are the returns you receive from the land on this subject? What is the status of the various remedies on the obligation to install this white box?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u64	Mrs Winckel, with regard to black box, the development of legal and technical criteria is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. I will not hide from you the perplexity of the failure of nearly 12,000 caisses and the resulting difficulties. I am keen to listen to the horeca sector, particularly in this regard. Allow me to invite you to ask my colleague, so that he can comment on the communication issued by the FPS Finances the day after this finding of defect. The appeal is still under consideration. Because of the separation of powers, I can only wait for the decision to be taken. You then know that we have taken a number of measures in favour of this sector, such as the exemption from overtime charges - a provision which I believe should be extended - and certain exemptions from payment of the professional discount, the creation of the flexi-jobs system. In addition, the horeca sector derives a direct benefit from the change in student status. For my part, I remain very attentive to the development of employment in this field. I am obviously in favour of examining additional provisions as soon as budgetary constraints permit. We'll have to see what shape they'll take. I am naturally committed to maintaining a link with employment. I have read the contribution of the association BRA (Belgian Restaurants Association) on tax deductibility. As soon as we have obtained clarification on the use and operation of the cash registers, these measures will have to be examined in the light of the budgetary possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u65	Minister, I have heard your answer quite short. I understand that this matter falls within the purview of the Minister of Finance, with whom I will intervene. I know that you, as Minister for the Middle Classes, Independents and SMEs, are very attentive to these issues. That is why I believe that we should not be too late. Action is being taken with respect to business days and hours, but there is a sense that the sector is really weakened. It should be heard and arrangements made. The Horeca itself develops proposals. Although you are passing the hot potato on to the Minister of Finance, it is important that you and your colleague reflect immediately on measures to support the sector. This is all the more urgent as certain provisions prove to be dramatic for some professionals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u66	Mrs Winckel, you keep the floor to ask your question about the growing use of the results-related non-recurring benefit (ANR). (No 16661)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u67	Mr President, I propose that you turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u68	Mrs Winckel, I shall immediately transmit to you the text of my reply. This is a very interesting question. You have rightly pointed out the significant volumes involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u69	In fact, I find that this is a positive measure, which can stimulate the positive spirit that prevails within a company and which can stimulate workers. I therefore turn this question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u70	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u71	Minister, here is an example of successful conversion. Two former workers from Caterpillar recently launched the very first collaborative platform for self-employed: Tafsquare. This project brings together more than 7,500 entrepreneurs, representing 150 different trades. This tool promotes collaborative reflexes between small independents and could be extended to other sectors, including agriculture. As Minister for Self-Employed and SMEs, how do you view the initiative? Do you intend to support her? If so, how? Knowing the current difficulties of the agricultural world, will you develop this same tool and launch a collaborative platform dedicated specifically to farmers? Could other sectors be interested in this type of platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u72	Madam Member, the initiative to which you refer is an additional example of the effective use of new technology to foster networking, and an example of successful conversion. The aim of the Tafsquare platform is to bring independents into contact exclusively in order to meet, in particular, the needs of subcontractors. I am sensitive to these initiatives that promote local, local economic development. I strongly support the development of the SME tax shelter, which aims to strengthen the financing opportunities of start-ups under four years of age, starting with individuals. In addition, I want to develop short circuits, localisation, quality Belgian products, handicrafts. These initiatives contribute to this kind of dynamism. I have initiated the development of the register of artisans where the consumer can find, in a few clicks, the craftsman of his region or a region further away. This project may experience positive spin-offs in other sectors. At the agricultural level, specific collaborative platforms already exist. For example, the MiiMOSA project aims to promote participatory financing for agriculture and food. I am quite prepared to give further thought to the role of the federal state as facilitator, for example, at the request of the various sectors. I will not fail to address this issue with the representatives of Agrofor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is an intelligent use of new technologies and it can bring a lot to the self-employed, including the collaborative platform. The MiiMOSA platform, which deals with crowdfunding, has some success at regional level. I believe that a pooling that meets the various demands of the agricultural sector could be stimulating and supportive for a sector of activity that is well known for its problems. I will come back to you if you plan that the federal government will play a facilitating role in this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u74	Here's something that's very close to my heart. Minister, according to the NIS, only 6% of entrepreneurs know that it is possible to share some of the workers they need for only a few hours a week. This mechanism is permitted through employer groups. As of 29 August 2016, nine employer groups appeared to be active in Belgium. This number is relatively small, especially since a number of barriers had been removed in order to encourage this system. From now on, a group of employers can be an ASBL, the worker must no longer be unemployed and part-time workers are allowed. According to the NIS, the biggest problem is the general lack of knowledge of the process. I am convinced that better communication around the tool would allow wider dissemination. Minister, to date, are there more employer groups? Are the conditions well known to the social secretariats type UCM, Group S, etc.- Is that what you're saying? What measures are you going to take to improve communication around employer groups? Are further measures to further ease the mechanism expected by 2019? I think it's really a great device that allows a real win-win between the conditions of the employee and the objectives of the manager.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u75	Madam Member, I would like to join you very broadly. I am very sensitive - I have already had the opportunity to express it in the Parliamentary Assembly - to the attractiveness of the scheme for groups of employers. The value of the formula is to have many advantages: the development of employment through the mutualisation of activities, the securing of the contract or employment of the employee, the increased flexibility, in some cases, which is necessary for the employer, the control of costs, the profitability of the partners, the modulation of the needs according to the economic interests of the members of the group and then a form of securing the development of the activity. Consequently, the reform of the scheme in the SME plan has been incorporated into the law on feasible work and is currently referred to the Council of State, but it will soon be discussed again in the plenary session of Parliament. These are really considerable advances that can be found in this law, since I had observed that the barriers removed in the previous legislature were unfortunately insufficient. The new advances are significant. In particular, I proposed them following the study of what is happening in France with regard to groups of employers. Two of my collaborators went to France, visited various structures and studied the legal system. In particular, there has been contact with chambers of commerce on the subject and with other actors. The following changes are on the agenda. The period of authorisation will now be unlimited for groups of employers with fewer than 50 workers. Previously, the duration was fixed by the Minister of Employment. Consultation with the National Labour Council will no longer be compulsory for groups of monosectoral employers. As a result, processing times will be shortened. The old procedure lasted a hundred days while the new procedure, for a group of monosectoral employers, will take up to 40 days. Having to wait a hundred days to file a project in order to hire staff always upsets me. Forty days is a maximum, I insist! Working conditions will be determined by the Joint Reference Committee. For groups of monosectural employers, it's simple! There's only one. For multi-sectoral employer groups, the Minister of Employment will determine the joint committee to which the group concerned will belong on the basis of a set of objective criteria laid down by law. The possible intervention of an external organiser is limited to groups of employers with more than 50 workers. 2017 will be used to strengthen information, dissemination, communication with SMEs and intermediaries, social secretariats etc. I intend to take initiatives to make the scheme known because, you are right, in Belgium there are only nine groups of employers, whereas in France there are five thousand groups of employers employing a total of almost 40,000 workers. My aim is not to replace employment in enterprises or employment in enterprise projects with groups of employers, but in any case it is an interesting form of organisation. I hope that, thanks to the new system and the communication that we will make of it and the relays, in the future we will have a deposit of real additional quality jobs developed at home. That is in any case my objective in this reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to note that we share the same view on the relevance of employer groups. In particular, they can provide support to SMEs and small self-employed persons. The interest of workers is to be assured of finding quality jobs. It meets these two objectives and is therefore a good win-win on both sides. I will take the time to analyze your information on the measures included in the Workable Bill. While it is appropriate to reduce procedural time, it may be regrettable to miss out on consultation with the NTC. It would probably have been interesting to keep it while reducing the period from one hundred to forty days. I will allow myself to come back to the matter later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u77	Mr.President, Minister, on April 1, 2017, the National Lottery will plan the commissions it grants to bookstores in connection with the sale of its products. The commission, initially at 6%, will fall to 4.5%, a decrease of 1.5%. This decline is denounced by a sector that is already suffering. According to statistics, a bookseller puts the key under the doormat every week in Belgium! However, this decline will not be effective if the bookseller chooses to offer the entire range of products of the National Lottery and to refund the winnings. According to the NIS, premiums for one-off actions will also be proposed. Mr Minister, in concrete terms, what will be the impact of this measure on independent booksellers? In your opinion, is communication about the new rules sufficient? As Minister for Self-Employed and SMEs, what returns are you receiving in this regard? What is your position on the SNI's reactions denouncing unfair competition with bpost and restricting the sale of tobacco?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u78	Mr President, honourable Member, the bookstore sector faces a number of challenges, difficulties and fears. Booksellers are experiencing a decline in income as a result of various phenomena, including the digitization of communication, including part of the print media, the evolution of tobacco sales and the evolution of the regulatory framework for gambling. The Committee on the Economy is working on a motion for a resolution in parallel with the working group on the SPF Economy. With regard to the provisions you are referring to regarding percentages from 1 April 2017, I had a conversation with my excellent colleague Mrs Wilmès on this issue. It seems, but this will have to be analysed, that in the vast majority of cases these new percentages will not result in a decrease in the income of booksellers. Allow me not to go into detail because it is my colleague who has the tutelage on the National Lottery. I will be very nuanced about the potential impact of these percentage variations, especially as the basis of calculation evolves, as you have rightly indicated. I obviously asked my colleague to keep me informed. Indeed, the aim of this reform is not to reduce the income of the booksellers, moreover in the context I have just described. At this stage, we do not have monitoring of a situation that has not yet begun, but we have projections. Mrs Wilmès and I are following the situation very closely so that our booksellers, of whom you know the importance of the role, are not weakened. Know, in any case, that I am very attached to their action and to the social bond they represent, not to mention the importance of their activity. With regard to unfair bpost competition, I assume that you refer to the public procurement awarded to it for the distribution of newspapers and periodicals. In this respect, there is a motion for a resolution that is owed to your colleague, Mrs Smaers, who provides some analysis on the evaluation of federal support for the print press and on the examination of how the support of the paper media can be organised with maximum effectiveness in the future. This assessment seems necessary in order to "calibrate" the way in which the sustainability of this important sector can be ensured. What says sustainability means, first of all, the economic sustainability of the activity. This is, of course, dealt with in cooperation with my colleague Kris Peeters. That is how I am going to restrict the sale of tobacco that you mentioned. I will not play ping-pong by asking you what your suggestions are in this regard. But you know that this is a balance between a number of concerns, including public health, which is an important element. The measures that will be taken in this regard at the initiative of several parliamentarians, but also of the government and in this case of my colleague, Mrs Maggie De Block, must therefore be proportionate to the objective pursued. Tobacco control must, of course, be a public health priority. But it is also essential to measure the consequences for a number of sectors. Here we are facing a file with several entrance doors. You have identified some; there are others. In any case, we owe it to all those who, like me, are lovers of booksellers and of the local business to land at some point, because the addition of a number of decisions can have very serious consequences. We must therefore consider how to deal with these consequences if, like me, we want to affirm the importance and sustainability of this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u79	Minister, as far as my last question is concerned, and as far as unfair competition with bpost and restrictions on tobacco sales are concerned, I would refer to the position of the NIS. I wanted to have your opinion on the position of the NIS in this area. You responded by referring to Mrs Smaers' resolution as a first step and as regards the sale of tobacco in relation to the health objective. I can hear him. As regards the reorientation of the National Lottery, I also understand that it is a competence of Mrs Wilmès. I will therefore allow myself to return to her. Today I really wanted to echo here the bookstore sector. This sector, as we know, is also in difficulty at the moment. I wanted more than to draw your attention because it is clear that bookstores are a local business that has an important role to play, especially in more rural areas. I therefore believe that supporting this sector, which is known to be heavily affected, is of paramount importance. You mentioned the digitization of periodicals, etc. I am not saying what you said again, but we really need to be careful and take measures that can support them in their daily work. I'll come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic590x.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Winckel. We will have an opportunity to debate in an interactive way, perhaps not with the Minister, because Mrs Smaers' motion for a resolution will be on the agenda soon, I think, next week. This will be an opportunity to revisit the content with any proposals that the groups wish to make.
