ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u1	Minister, I am glad to be able to ask you this interesting question. My question dates back to 15 September. The political year started here and that was also the case for the European Union with the presentation by President Juncker of his State of the Union. He presented one ambitious plan after another, from a further enlargement of Europe to the appointment of a European Minister of Economy and Finance. With his presentation "Wind Back in the Sails" he clearly again drew the map of a larger and deeper European Union. The White Paper with the five possible scenarios for Europe's future seems to be in the forgotten corner. He now comes up with his own, somewhat new playbook, a sixth scenario. Is that gonna get you grounded? That's just the question. Junker's lack of passion and enthusiasm in reading it gave me the impression that he himself didn't believe in it. Furthermore, there are also critical noises among the Nordic Member States, which are not immediately asking for more Europe. They are not all convinced that more is equal to decisive and effective. That is how I come to your question, Minister. For some time now, the government has been urging a multi-speed Europe. This principle is also endorsed by the Rome Declaration, signed by all the European Member States on the occasion of the happy 60th anniversary of the Union. What's the deal now? Are we taking Juncker's leap forward? To what extent do you think there is agreement between the government's views and the Commission President's ambitious speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u2	Mr Luykx, the State of the Union, which the President of the European Commission brings to the European Parliament every year, is a tradition that continues today's President Jean-Claude Juncker. The speech was supplemented by a letter of intent sent simultaneously to the Presidents of the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers. That letter of intent explicitly refers to the Commission White Paper of 1 March 2017 and divides the Commission's priorities into ten different policy areas, either to be launched or completed by the end of 2018 or to be launched with a long-term perspective, i.e. perhaps up to 2025. I share the view of the President of the Commission that, after the difficult year 2016, the European Union can look forward with more optimism to the future. It is a fact that in many areas the Union has proved to be able to act forcefully. It strengthens the Commission that it should go further along this road. The ambitious programmes are proof of this. The Brexit, however regrettable, obliges the European Union to look ahead. The European citizen also expects results and a positive difference that the Union can make. I note that the overall consensus among the 27 European Member States remains strong. It cannot be denied that certain differences remain large in Europe. Although Belgium remains in favour of working on up to 27, I believe that differentiated integration can provide a concrete solution to make an effective effort to strengthen the Union and its role in the world, where joint action is impossible or seriously delaying. As we stated in the Rome Declaration in March, the Member States who want to take new steps must also be able to do so. I am in favour of a pragmatic and step-by-step approach, with respect for the institutions concerned and the applicable legal framework. Today, I do not think it is the time to revise the Treaty, but rather to find concrete solutions to a number of problems. For example, there is the issue of security and defence, in which progress has already been made. Migration must also be examined: an internal migration policy on asylum must indeed be established. On the socio-economic front, we may need to deepen monetary and economic integration. This can be done in the euro area, with 19 countries. This can also be done with fewer countries, if necessary. You referred to a number of proposals put forward by President Juncker. Answers must also be found for external relations issues. It is also necessary to speak with a strong voice and with one voice throughout the world and to advocate certain developments. For me, we must start this discussion with the determination to cooperate with 27 countries. However, if necessary, a differentiated approach may be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u3	Mr Juncker has continued the tradition. However, he lacked enthusiasm in interpreting the otherwise unavoidable positions of the European Union. I share your view that we should evolve towards differentiation. Differentiation can offer solutions in Europe. It is also very important, as you point out, for us to come up with concrete solutions, where the European citizen knows what a particular solution can mean for him or her. I also share your view that Europe's geopolitical position urgently needs to be strengthened. In the field of defence and foreign policy, we need to reach a more united position. It is also important that the enlargement you are talking about does not seem to us to be on the agenda. On the contrary, Europe's enlargement and its attitude towards a number of internal processes, which I regret to say at the moment, are making a lot of pro-European will melt like snow for the sun. That is the case in Catalonia and Scotland, which are unfortunate things. You will forgive me for noticing that. Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u4	Minister, a free trade agreement between the European Union and Colombia/Peru was concluded in June 2012. In its resolution of 13 June 2012, the European Parliament called for the adoption of a roadmap by Peru and Colombia to improve respect for human rights, labour and environmental rights and for the European Commission to report regularly on progress made in the objectives of these roadmaps. Following this request by Parliament, Colombia and Peru each adopted a road map. Despite the annual reports produced by the European Commission and the dialogue between Peru and the European External Action Service (EEAS), the roadmap itself seems insufficient. It is limited to general considerations and lacks concrete measurable objectives defined over time. It seems to us, therefore, that it goes beyond its initial objective of improving the situation of human rights, labour and the environment on the ground, which is still problematic at many levels. On the other hand, many alarming figures and facts come to us and point to a situation which is deteriorating in these various areas: 179 social conflicts, between 70 and 80 per cent of informal workers throughout the PEA in Peru, rise in temporary contracts, trade unionization rate six times lower than 30 years ago, third country in America in the field of modern slavery, 105 labour inspectors instead of the necessary 2,000, etc. Minister, Chapter IX of the Free Trade Agreement on Trade and Sustainable Development cannot be easily changed. Do you think it is possible to ask Peru for a revision of its road map to include concrete human rights, labour and environmental objectives? And if so, through what mechanism and institution? This would enable the positive impact of the free trade treaty on human rights, labour and the environment in Peru to be assessed with confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u5	Mrs Grovonius, the road map you mention is Peru's unilateral response to the European Parliament resolution adopted in 2012 on the free trade agreement between the European Union and Colombia and Peru and soon to Ecuador. Although the responsibility for its implementation lies with Peru, the Commission and the High Representative, Federica Mogherini, have expressed their readiness to support its implementation alongside the European Parliament through the various existing instruments. In close connection with the embassies of the Member States, including Belgium, the European delegation in Lima closely monitors developments in the human rights situation as well as social and environmental standards in Peru. Secondly, the European Union initiated a dialogue on human rights with Peru, where all issues, including social and environmental rights, are a priority of the Union's external action. The Trade and Sustainable Development chapter of the Free Trade Agreement is an additional mechanism for working on social and environmental rights issues. It contains firm commitments by Peru, specific monitoring mechanisms and a dispute settlement procedure. It also demands the involvement of Peruvian civil society, a necessity for the lasting improvement of the situation in that country. Finally, the inclusion of Peruvian civil society in the monitoring of the implementation of this chapter is a priority of the European Union's roadmap for engagement with civil society in Peru. Belgium is one of the most active Member States in monitoring this roadmap. Given the unilateral nature of the road map you are referring to, it seems difficult at this stage to ask the European Union to review it. Furthermore, you know that ratification is still under way in a few Member States, including our own. It would, of course, be easier to ask for the instruments of a treaty to be used if it were to be ratified. I have always pleaded for it and I remain convinced of it. It is a mistake not to wish to ratify this document because, as I have pointed out and you have referred to it, it contains elements that would make it possible to act more effectively. On the other hand, it is the responsibility of the Commission and the Member States to use their instruments in a complementary manner with our partners in Peru to help improve the situation in the fields of human rights, social rights and environmental rights. I repeat, Belgium is one of the most active countries in the Union. It is a country that remains constant to plead in this direction. If you plead with us for the ratification of this treaty throughout Belgium, we will also be able to use the elements it contains to try to improve the situation in Peru further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u6	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I will not fail to plead for the ratification of such treaties, when you yourself will also plead to ensure that, in this type of agreement, we finally find binding standards in terms of sustainable development.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u7	Mr President, this question has already been answered in plenary by Minister Reynders in a question addressed to Mr De Roover. I found the Minister's answer satisfactory and complete. My question can therefore be considered as being dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u8	That is true, but I would have liked an answer to a few specific questions. Such a decision is preceded by a coordination meeting. This must therefore be dealt with formally. Hence my questions, Minister. Was there a prior coordination meeting? Was that a meeting in Executive Board MI6 or was the position otherwise coordinated? Who was present at this meeting? Was a representative of the Department of Defense present? Were the positions of Defense and Foreign Affairs the same? Or was this position adopted by the Foreign Office? If the Foreign Office had overruled Defense, what would justify this overrule, as this clearly seems to fall within the competence of the Defense Department? What was the final instruction to the Permanent Representative? How did this decision of the Political and Security Committee become a decision of the Council of the EU? Did that happen by tacit acceptance? If Defence did not agree with the decision of the Political and Security Committee, why did it not protest?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u9	Mr Minister, last June, the Belgian frigate Louise-Marie left the port of Zeebrugge for the Mediterranean as part of the European Sophia mission, whose aim is to combat trafficking in human beings and to intercept arms smugglers in this area. To this end, Belgium has concluded an agreement with Italy. When smugglers are intercepted, they will be handed over to the Italian authorities. And if the frigate were to discover migrants, the crew would help them. The Council of the European Union extended the mandate of the Sophia mission until 31 December 2018. Operation Sophia also includes two support tasks, namely the training of the Libyan Coast Guard and the Libyan Navy and a contribution to the implementation of the United Nations arms embargo on the high seas off the Libyan coast. What is the status of these two important tasks and what is Belgian participation in this framework? What is your position on a possible Belgian contribution to this European mission in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u10	On 25 June, the Council of the European Union extended the mandate of EUNAVFOR MED Operation Sophia until 31 December 2018, by written procedure. All EU Member States responded positively in the context of that procedure. The decision is a decision of the Belgian Government, expressed by the FPS Foreign Affairs. In view of the written nature of the procedure, there was no prior formal meeting. During the preparatory phase, the services of the FPS Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence had regular and close consultations on this issue. On the basis of these consultations, a positive response was given. The Council decision was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Like the Regulation, the decision is a binding legal act in all its provisions and directly applicable without transposition into national law. On the situation in Libya, on 28 July, the European Union Trust Fund for Africa adopted a programme to strengthen the capacities of the Libyan authorities in the area of integrated immigration and border management. An assessment mission that will explore the possibilities of an assistance project to strengthen the operational capacity of Libyan border guards in the south of the country is also included in this project. The European Union also supported IOM and UNHCR in providing humanitarian assistance and improving the infrastructure and reception conditions for migrants on Libyan soil. But of course, the stabilization of the country can only be achieved if a lasting political solution is found, for which Belgium and the European Union support the efforts of the new Special Envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Ghassan Salamé. I recently met him in New York with my European colleagues on the occasion of General Assembly Week. The European Union's efforts towards Libya are therefore numerous and are beginning to bear fruit. The number of migrants crossing through the Central Mediterranean route decreased significantly this summer, with the direct result of a reduction in the number of victims at sea. Operation Sophia plays an important role in this context in fighting against smugglers and traffickers of human beings and although the mission has not yet managed to evolve into its phases 2B (extension of the operational zone to Libyan territorial waters) and 3 (action on the coastal areas of Libyan territory), we can still see that the progress is real. In the implementation of its mandate, Operation Sophia continues to train the Libyan Coast Guard and the Libyan Navy. One hundred and thirty-six Coast Guards have been trained so far in this framework and eighty-seven others have started their training in Italy in September. A follow-up mechanism for trained Libyan Coast Guard is also planned to ensure the long-term effectiveness of the training provided. The operation also contributes to the implementation of the United Nations arms embargo, allowing the inspection and arrest of ships, which has a deterrent effect on arms flows. In addition, the new mandate also allows for the collection of information on illegal oil export trafficking from Libya and to increase the possibilities for sharing information on trafficking in human beings with the law enforcement authorities of the Member States as well as Frontex and Europol. Finally, Belgian participation in the mission has recently been translated into the commitment of the frigate Louise-Marie, as you recalled, in June-July 2017. With regard to the possible further participation of Belgium in Operation Sophia, the development of the operational planning is under way and will be presented to the Council of Ministers at the end of the year. The question of Belgian participation will then be the subject of reflection within the government, taking into account the latest developments and the situation at that time. I have no a priori in this matter. We will see what will be scheduled and what requests will be addressed to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u11	Thank you for your reply, Minister. This question was put a long time ago, but I asked your colleague Mr Vandeput the same or a similar question. My fellow Members from other parties also raised questions about operationality in the field, the way in which the government has reached a decision and the follow-up by Foreign Affairs. That is why I have tabled this question. As long as there was no extension of the UN mandate, you yourself referred to the B phase, some expressed doubts as to whether it was useful enough. That is why I asked whether the entire government, and therefore every minister, fully supported that. I have received a sufficient explanation on that point. In the meantime, in response to a question from a colleague, I have also received further explanations on the issues that have been extended, namely the training of the Libyan Coast Guard and the information collection and exchange with the various Member States. I hope that we can continue along this path in order to tackle this problem together with the other Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u12	Mr. Minister, thank you for this fairly comprehensive clarification. I agree with my colleague that, of course, there is a need to continue monitoring on the spot, which is a good contribution to solving this important problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u13	Question No 20013 by Mrs Grovonius is transformed into a written question at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u14	Minister, there are therefore two joint questions, one on the National Business and Human Rights Action Plan and the other on the Business and Human Rights Treaty. These are two processes currently under way, one at Belgian level, since on 20 July the Council of Ministers took note of the National Business and Human Rights Action Plan, which has been expected since the beginning of the legislature. It is known that this plan has been the subject of opinions and recommendations made by civil society during a consultation period, and unfortunately many of these recommendations have not been taken into account in the final version adopted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July. The positive point raised and meeting the expectations expressed by civil society is that the implementation of the action plan can be assessed annually in the Social Responsibility Working Group of the Interdepartmental Commission for Sustainable Development and that on the basis of this assessment, a progress report will be drawn up. An evaluation of the National Action Plan and the implementation of actions, together with stakeholders, is planned within three years of the Government's approval of the action plan. At the time of this evaluation, it may be decided to amend or update the action plan. Do you intend to make a presentation of the plan in question to parliamentarians and will we be able to discuss it? And can the possible recommendations of parliamentarians emerging from such discussions still be taken into account in this National Business and Human Rights Action Plan? The other question, as I said, concerns the United Nations treaty on business and human rights. To put the global economy at the service of a just and sustainable world, the UN Human Rights Council adopted the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, approved in 2011 at the UN by the European Union and its member States. Civil society organizations from all over the world launched a call in 2013 to transform these principles into reality through a new treaty. This appeal has been heard by a number of United Nations member States that have initiated a process at the United Nations Human Rights Council to develop such an instrument. On 23 October in Geneva, the third session of the intergovernmental working group established within that framework began. The 2017 session will be the first negotiating session itself. Will the Minister, the European Union and the Belgian Government participate constructively in this negotiation next week and in the next negotiations? The National Business and Human Rights Action Plan states that: "Belgium will argue at European Union level for an active commitment by the European Union to the United Nations intergovernmental working group on this instrument". What steps have been taken to this end with our European partners? What is the result of this? Will the Belgian position on this Treaty be prepared before and after the 2017 session? Will this be done in consultation with all the parliaments concerned and civil society? Knowing that this session is taking place in a few days, I have doubts about it. In accordance with its plan of action, does Belgium intend to act within the Human Rights Council to ensure that this process continues as long as necessary in order to arrive at an instrument that "should aim at improving the human rights situation on the ground"? These, Minister, are the questions I was asking myself about these two important mechanisms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u15	Minister, today's economic globalization generates winners and losers. Across the world, people are regularly victims of human rights violations and lack access to justice, especially when part of the responsibility comes from a parent or donor company across a global supply chain. In Bangladesh, for example, the collapse of the Rana Plaza building had left 1,138 dead and more than 2,000 injured in factories that produced clothing for major western brands such as Carrefour and Benetton. There is no legal remedy for victims to obtain justice in relation to such marks. All court attempts have remained unanswered. To fill these gaps and put the global economy at the service of a just and sustainable world, the UN Human Rights Council adopted the Business and Human Rights Guidelines approved by the UN in 2011 by the European Union and its member States. Under pressure from major NGOs and civil society, a number of United Nations member States have initiated a process at the United Nations Human Rights Council to develop such an instrument. The case of this disaster in Bangladesh, which I have referred to, is sufficient to demonstrate that the existing instruments are not sufficient and that a treaty is necessary. As my colleague said, on 23 October in Geneva, the third session of the Intergovernmental Working Group began, and the European Union made known its concerns in this process. This is mainly the scope of the treaty, which should include not only transnational corporations but also domestic enterprises, and the need to invite all stakeholders, including representatives of the enterprises themselves, into the negotiations. I would remind you that the European Parliament supports this process. He reiterated his support in a resolution in September 2017 that emphasizes access to justice and due diligence. In the face of a new rise in isolationism, the European Union and Belgium have a crucial role to play. The National Business and Human Rights Action Plan provides that Belgium will argue, at European Union level, for an active commitment by the European Union to the United Nations intergovernmental working group on this instrument. I will ask three questions that are in line with those of my colleagues. What steps have been taken in this direction with our European partners and with what results? Will the European Union and the Belgian Government participate constructively in this negotiation next week and later? In accordance with its plan of action, will Belgium do everything within the Human Rights Council to ensure that this process continues as long as necessary in order to arrive at an instrument that "should aim at improving the human rights situation on the ground"?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u16	Mr President, Belgium did indeed adopt its first National Business and Human Rights Action Plan on 20 July. The document is currently being developed for on-line publication. It will be presented to stakeholders, NGOs, companies and trade unions in the fall. In addition, implementation has already been launched and a series of actions are already under way. As you mentioned in your questions, the plan provides for an annual assessment within the Social Responsibility Working Group of the Interdepartmental Commission for Sustainable Development. This evaluation will be the subject of a progress report from this committee to Parliament, the Government and the Federal Council on Sustainable Development. The discussions will take place in various places where they will have to take place. It is also planned to provide an evaluation of the plan, jointly with stakeholders, within three years of its approval by the Government. The adoption of this plan shows that Belgium, like the European Union in general, is very involved in the consensus process of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Several decades of discussions on the issue of corporate respect for human rights in the United Nations, as well as our experience in other areas, have shown us that to achieve progress on the ground, all stakeholders, governments, businesses, civil society and trade unions must be involved and engaged. For this reason, Belgium will continue to support the consensus approach of the CORE Group, which focuses on these guiding principles. A number of progress has already been made by the European Union in this area. I am thinking in particular of the three groups of conclusions of the 2016 Council on child labour, production chains and specifically on business and human rights which have led to a number of actions on this topic in international forums and on the ground. I am also thinking of EU Directive 2014/95 on the publication of non-financial and diversity-related information by certain large companies and groups, which provides for, inter alia, the publication by the companies concerned of information relating to respect for human rights. In addition, actions related to business and human rights are included in the EU's successive strategic frameworks and action plans for human rights and democracy. In addition, many Member States have adopted their national action plans. This is also the case with Belgium this summer. As you recall, in parallel with this consensual process of developing guiding principles, some countries have launched the initiative of a binding treaty, as in other matters. While we agree that the issue of the use of justice for victims is absolutely crucial, I will not hide from you that we are asking ourselves questions about the process of drafting this treaty. Thus, a significant number of publicly supporting countries have neither adopted a national plan nor advanced their obligations on existing treaties and processes. Moreover, the way in which the Chairman-Rapporteur of the Intergovernmental Working Group in Geneva acted has made it more difficult for the European Union to participate actively and constructively. While we asked for the elements of the text before this summer, the Ecuadorian rapporteur did not distribute a detailed text until the first week of October, leaving only three weeks to study it before the meeting of the working group. Unfortunately, the European Union's requests to postpone this meeting in order to be able to analyse the text in depth and to consult the relevant services, Member States and stakeholders have been denied. However, for many commitments, particularly in these matters, we must establish a concertation between different levels of power. It sometimes takes time to define a common position. Here, we didn't want to take into account our contingencies. On the substance, many of the elements contained in the Ecuadorian document were worrying. In its present form, far from strengthening the rights of vulnerable persons, it may contribute to the accountability of States with regard to the human rights situation within their national borders, thereby undermining the system of human rights conventions that we have been building for decades. As part of our commitment on the subject, Belgium has indeed advocated, at European Union level, for active and constructive participation in the working group to be held next week in Geneva. Our diplomats in Geneva and Brussels have had numerous contacts in this regard with the other Member States as well as with the European External Action Service and the Commission. The item was discussed with the Brussels working group. Belgium also put it on the agenda of the Political and Security Committee on 17 October. I confirm that the European Union will participate in the discussions to be held in Geneva next week. On the basis of information transmitted from Brussels, Belgium will also participate, with the comments and reservations I have mentioned above.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u17	I take note that the National Business and Human Rights Plan will be presented to stakeholders, whose parliament is clearly not a part of it, since you mentioned the NGO, non-profit sectors, civil society and not parliament. That we'll have to wait...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u18	Don't you have Internet access at home? Otherwise I'd ask for an intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u19	I have the plan, that's not the problem. The problem is that we can discuss it and that the plan is officially tabled here so that we can discuss it, that the minister responsible can present it to us, that we can possibly ask for hearings on it, that real parliamentary work can take place. If you do not consider us a stakeholder in this Business and Human Rights plan, there is no problem. This confirms that, indeed, when it comes to whether some of our recommendations as parliamentarians could be introduced or taken into account, the answer is already negative, since there is no point in presenting it to us. For the rest and for the treaty, I understand the reservations and I can understand some of them. Nevertheless, it is an instrument that can truly enable progress in terms of recourse to justice for victims. I hope that we will not stop at the constraints that you have pointed out and that Belgium will be able to play a leading role, even potentially, in improving a text that obviously still raises questions. It seems to me that we have a place to occupy in this context and that we must take it more proactively than we have done at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u20	Thank you for your answers. I also think that it is time for Belgium to be seriously involved and committed to this plan. I'm surprised to hear you mention Ecuador. I hope that there will be a follow-up and a report on what will happen in Geneva and that we can ask you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u21	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u22	That's curious. I'm sensitive to Ecuador because I have a son who lives there. I'm a little surprised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u23	Mr President, Minister Kem Sokha, one of the opposition leaders and leader of the National Rescue Party of Cambodia (PSNC), was charged with treason to the Kingdom and was arrested in September at his home. Mu Sochua, Vice-President of the NHPD, also had to flee the country recently in emergency because she had just received a message indicating her imminent arrest. Furthermore, on 6 October, the Minister of the Interior applied to the Supreme Court for the dissolution of the NHPC. According to some reports, it would appear that it is a matter of preparing for the dissolution of the main opposition party and of reassigning its 55 seats as deputies to five small political parties, which had only 6 per cent of the votes in the 2013 elections. An unprecedented crackdown on Cambodian civil society and media was also reported. Minister, do you have more information about this repression that would take place in Cambodia? What are the possibilities for dialogue between the European Union and Cambodia, as well as your possible bilateral relations with the country, in order to urge the Cambodian authorities to respect democracy and the rights of the opposition?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u24	Mr President, there was also a question from Mr Vandenput in that connection. I will let him have my answer in writing. Mr Blanchart, as the July 2018 general election approaches, the political situation in Cambodia is indeed very worrying. The latest developments to which you refer reinforce this observation. It appears that Prime Minister Hun Sen's current power silences criticism, whether it emanates from opposition political parties or from civil society. In the face of this drift, the European Union must follow the situation very closely. The European delegation in Cambodia and the High Representative have done so through press releases in recent weeks. The European Union will also continue to address these issues in its various dialogues with the Cambodian authorities. I have asked our embassy in Bangkok, which is competent for Cambodia, as well as my services at headquarters in Brussels to continue to follow the situation in Cambodia closely. We will, of course, also do so within the European Union. I understand your concerns and the points you have raised will be reflected in these steps. On the night of 2 to 3 September Kem Sokha, the leader of the Cambodian opposition, was indeed arrested again, this time for treason and espionage. In the run-up to the general elections in July 2018, this reflects a worrying political evolution. It is important to urge the Cambodian authorities to respect the democratic rules of the game so that free elections can be organised. The European Union reacted the day after the arrest by the High Representative's spokesperson. In a statement he denounces a dangerous political practice and calls on the Cambodian authorities to release Kem Sokha immediately. It goes without saying that I fully support this statement. Our ambassador in Bangkok, a post which includes Cambodia, has recently travelled to Phnom Penh. In his talks at the Cambodian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he addressed the deterioration of the rule of law in Cambodia through the arrest of Kem Sokha. Mr Blanchart, we will continue to intervene on the individual cases mentioned, but also more generally on the situation which is deteriorating in anticipation of next summer's elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u25	[[...]] In the last elections, the opposition made successive breakthroughs. I believe that we could move towards a very difficult situation, a very tense situation, or even a bloodbath, in a country where repression is still very harsh. Thank you for keeping an eye on the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u26	Minister, in September the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico were plagued by hurricanes. These have caused considerable damage to several islands and to the south coast of the United States. You then sent an expert from B-FAST to the UNDAC Centre in Haiti to assist with the work and offered relief to our neighbouring countries France and the Netherlands. When I submitted my question, France had already indicated that it did not need these reliefs. What was the response of the Netherlands to your offer of assistance? Was the provision of aid and the decision to send an expert to Haiti discussed in the Coordination Council? What was the exact mission of the expert in Haiti? Has B-FAST decided to respond to requests for assistance from countries in the region, whether or not through international coordination by UNDAC? Finally, a question that you saw coming from miles away, Minister. How's B-FAST's audit coming along? When can Parliament have the documents? How is your reform of B-FAST coming along?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u27	Minister, following the passage of Hurricane Maria in mid-September, which killed at least 15 people and killed some 20 people in Dominica, you said that "the B-Fast emergency response team would send medical aid, reconstruction and water purification equipment". Could you give us more details on the human and material resources deployed in the framework of this Belgian mission? Furthermore, could you tell me which SPFs are involved in this intervention? Did the Department of Defence also participate in this mission? Finally, to join my colleague Mrs Bellens' question, what is the status of the B-Fast audit? When can we discuss this here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that some questions date from 18 September, while Hurricane Maria de Caribbean, in particular Dominica, hit on 19 September. The Netherlands discussed Belgium's offer for a long time. In the end, the Netherlands indicated that it could not respond to the offer for practical reasons. The Belgian offer was particularly appreciated by the Dutch authorities. This point was discussed at the internal meeting of B-FAST on 22 September. On 24 September, the Home Office informed B-FAST that a test had been carried out in neighbouring countries, with no results. UNDAC members are activated and mobilised by the OCHA in Geneva, which holds the UNDAC secretariat. A B-FAST volunteer enrolled in the Belgian pool of UNDAC members was assigned to the UNDAC team in Haiti on the basis of his availability and competences. After a week that volunteer was added to the team in Sint-Maarten. The mission of that volunteer lasted from 7 September to 23 September 2017. No requests for help were distributed to the international community. In some cases, the governments of the affected countries had bilateral agreements on the provision of emergency aid with interlocutors from the region of the Americas. That was not the case for Belgium. As far as the audit is concerned, the first phase, the financial audit by the Treasury Inspectorate, has now been completed. Discussions with the federal internal audit on the field of application of the second phase of the audit are currently under way. It is still premature to comment on a result of that part of the research. The B-Fast team is composed of members of three departments: the Interior, Public Health and Defence. Defence provided air transportation (C-130) and communications equipment. A representative of the European Response Coordination Center accompanied the B-Fast team on his trip to Dominica. A team of fifteen people was deployed to the north-east of the island, where a water treatment plant was installed. It has shown its added value in emergency aid operations as it has been able to meet the demand of the eight thousand inhabitants of the surrounding area. The availability of drinking water is an effective prevention against the spread of contagious diseases and meets the basic needs of the affected population. It is still premature to consider similar missions in the future. The B-Fast teams can only mobilize, I recall, at the request of states facing a sudden emergency situation that exceeds their own capabilities. On-site coordination between the B-Fast team and the international aid structures of the European Union and the United Nations has proved to be optimal. A liaison officer of the B-Fast team was seconded to the emergency aid coordination platform in Roseau, the capital of Dominica. This reinforcement has improved the international community's support for the operations of the B-Fast water treatment plant. As far as the reconstruction of the country is concerned, I should like to refer you to my colleague in charge of development cooperation and humanitarian aid, who is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is, of course, a good thing to be able to offer help which can make a difference on the ground. I think it is very important, given the interdepartmental nature of B-FAST, that each department concerned should also be involved in the decision-making process and in the decision-making of actions. That is also stated in the Royal Decree on B-FAST. Just the involvement and transparency was the commitment of the entire audit of B-FAST and its possible reform. I repeat that I remain eagerly looking forward to the results of the reform of B-FAST. The audit is actually taking a very long time. I've listed a few cases. I note that my first question dates from 30 April 2015 in plenary, announcing that the external audit will be completed by the end of 2015, which you confirmed in December 2015. In January 2016, you say you expect the results at the end of that trimester. In April 2016, you say that you think you can come to Parliament with conclusions a week later. At the end of April 2016, you say that documents will be available in the foreseeable future. In November 2016, you say that we will have the results of the financial audit by the end of March 2017. On 14 December 2016, you say you expect the results of the financial audit by the end of April or early May 2017. On 26 April 2017, you say that the date will probably be 2 May and that the first phase of the audit reports will then be ready. You have just replied that the first phase of the audit is ready and that the second phase is premature. From that second phase, you have promised that it will be there by the end of 2017, so I am in happy expectation of that. To my written question of July 2017, you reply that the audit reports were discussed in the Coordination Council on 6 July and will subsequently be communicated externally. Minister, you have seen my questions coming from a long way, but I do not see any audit documents at all. It seems to be a procession of Echternach and I would be very sorry if I had to wait until January to get my documents. After two years, surely Parliament and the taxpayer are entitled to that information? What I particularly regret is that the staff of B-FAST have been promised a reform for two years in which a number of problems would be addressed. I really hope that you will finally come up with those documents by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. After my colleague's reply, I do not see what I can still add. We are also waiting for this audit. I hope that we can discuss this very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u31	Madam President, Minister, the company Heckler & Koch has adopted a far-reaching ethical policy on arms exports and on its own initiative. The arms company imposes itself an ethical code that goes beyond government policy. The company no longer supplies weapons to conflict areas or countries where corruption prevails and democratic values are not respected. Specifically, the company will no longer supply Saudi Arabia, Israel, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and almost all African countries. Heckler & Koch, who is called Germany's deadliest company by activists, said that it will now only sell to so-called "green" countries. Three criteria are used: membership of NATO or NATO equivalent, the score on the Transparency International corruption perception index and the democratic index of the Economist Intelligence Unit. We have often debated arms exports from FN Herstal in this committee. I remember your plagues in the direction of the colleagues of the PS. Every disadvantage has its advantage, said a great Dutch philosopher. The Walloon Region owns 100% of that company. Mr Minister, are you prepared to have a debate with Willy Borsus on this shining example? To be honest, I had some hope, until this morning I opened up my newspaper and, to my great dismay, found that FN Herstal decided yesterday to conclude 25 contracts with Saudi Arabia for arms deliveries. Nevertheless, I place all my hopes on you and your good contacts with Willy Borsus. Would you argue at FN Herstal that they should take an example from Heckler&Koch?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u32	Madam President, Mr Van der Maelen, the special law of 12 September 2003 has largely regionalised the competence for the import and export of arms. Since 2003, regional governments have themselves been responsible for the control of international arms transfers carried out by economic operators established in their respective territories. Moreover, the Regions have adopted their own legislation on arms trafficking, respecting the EU's political and legal parameters and the relevant international framework such as the Arms Trade Treaty. The cooperation agreement between the Federal State and the Regions of 17 July 2007 laid down the rules, in accordance with the allocation of powers provided for by the Special Law of 12 August 2003. In this legal framework, I see no room for your suggested plea. That may be different from a clear decision in Germany, but I have not heard or seen it. It was just a reaction from a company. As far as your comments on Saudi Arabia and the Walloon Region are concerned, I have used clear language and have sent a letter of information to the three prime ministers. First, we can go to a European embargo, not only for weapons but also for dual-use goods. It is then possible to opt for a regional embargo within your region. Today, I have the same reasoning as before, when there was a Socialist Prime Minister or even when Ecolo was in the Walloon government. I always argue for the same conclusion, but perhaps not always with a good result. I have sent Parliament's resolution to the three regions and I stand by the same position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u33	Minister, I think that you were addressing the PS colleagues more strongly and asked them to make the necessary contacts at their level. However, you are very well placed to refer yourself to the Walloon Government. You are also right to refer to the resolution adopted in the Chamber in which it considers that it is better not to supply arms to certain regimes. This morning Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo said that he deplores and even condemns FN's decision to conclude 25 contracts with Saudi Arabia. I expected the same strong response from you, but unfortunately we did not get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 20398 was converted into a written question. Mr Crusnière is not here. Mrs Van Hoof, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u35	Minister, the latest Rwandan presidential elections, which took place on 4 August, were won by outgoing President Kagame with 98.7% of the votes. One has to do it! However, several reports indicated that counter candidates were prevented from taking part in the elections and were intimidated. At the end of the elections, the intimidation of political opponents continues. It was reported that several opponents were arrested, disappeared or threatened. Among other things, the independent presidential candidate Diane Rwigara, her sister and her mother were arrested on 23 September. From opposition forces Démocratices Unifiées, FDU-Inkingi, seven leaders were arrested on 6 September. The intimidation shows that the current regime wants to silence opponents and critics and further discourage them from taking on the authorities. Minister, can you explain the situation in Rwanda? What is your position on the outcome of the Rwandan elections and the intimidation of political opponents of the current regime? Have you spoken to the Rwandan authorities about the situation? If so, what was the answer? If not, do you intend to do so? Are there any further steps being taken by the international community?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u36	Mrs Van Hoof, my answer is bilingual, because there was also a question from Mr Crusnière. Belgium is following closely the political and human rights situation in Rwanda. Together with our European partners, we are very active and we are in favour of greater openness, not just for Rwanda, by the way. That's nothing new. Before the presidential elections, Belgium participated in the political dialogue meetings, Article 8, which enabled the European Union to stress the need for a sufficiently open political space in Rwanda and to allow the participation of independent candidates. Our embassy, together with other EU posts in Kigali, participated in a diplomatic watch of the presidential elections. It is a pity that no full EU monitoring mission was sent, because that could have given us a better picture of the electoral process. We have always advocated this for electoral processes in a country such as Rwanda. The European Union declaration following the elections called on the Rwandan authorities to redouble their efforts to make the electoral process more inclusive and transparent, in particular with regard to the registration of candidates, the publication of results and other preconditions for the establishment of a level playing field. Of course, I agree with these recommendations. As you may know, we closely follow Diane Rwigara's and her family's files, as well as those of members of the FDU-Inkingi. As far as the Rwigara family is concerned, several members have dual nationality, Belgo-Rwandaise. Initially, many contacts took place in Brussels and Kigali to learn more about the fate of family members. My department also received representatives of civil society and the opposition who were concerned about the fate of the Rwigara family. Then, our embassy in Kigali was able to visit the family on 22 September, shortly before the announcement of the arrest of Diane Rwigara, her mother and her sister. Since then, Diane Rwigara, her mother and sister have been incarcerated. Our embassy also requested a visit to prison on a humanitarian basis. Finally, the Embassy also attends the hearings of the trial of the Rwigara family. I had the opportunity to refer it to the outgoing Ambassador of Rwanda, who became Minister of State in the new government. We are obviously quite concerned about this situation of arrests a few weeks after the presidential elections. As I said to you, this is a situation which concerns not only Belgium but also the European Union. This has an impact on political diversity in Rwanda. Together with other members of the government, I am convinced that it is necessary to respond directly to various members of the Rwandan Government. We will therefore closely monitor the dossiers, both bilaterally and at European level. Following a series of political contacts in New York and Brussels, in the framework of our ongoing dialogue with Rwanda, a delegation of senior diplomats will leave for Kigali in the coming months to review bilateral relations and the human rights situation. I will ask for individual dossiers to be raised, which I believe is necessary in order to monitor the situation of various people in Kigali and in Rwanda in general. It is true that the situation has not evolved favourably since the elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that Belgium closely follows up the situation and, together with EU partners, continues to exert international pressure to ensure that human rights are respected and that people are not arrested when they want to participate in elections. The situation in Central Africa is worrying about democracy: there are no elections in Congo, there are no elections in Burundi and there are false elections in Rwanda. We must continue to think about it from within the European Union and even more widely in the way we should deal with it. This does not safeguard human rights in the countries concerned, and that is worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u38	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Crusnière, acting on behalf of the Chamber, and Question No 20403 and 20404 Mr Van der Maelen's 20463 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u39	Minister, on Friday, September 15, eight of the twelve participants of a MolenGeek delegation to a trip to the United States are blocked at Brussels Airport because they are denied access to American territory. As you probably know, MolenGeek is an incubator, based in Molenbeek, which aims to help young people start their own businesses, especially in the digital field. The twelve participants in this trip were to visit TechCrunch Disrupt in San Francisco, from September 18 to 20, a show dedicated to startups. On 22 September, the Molenbeek delegation was even to be received at the United Nations in New York, with the MolenGeek teams in fact accompanying an economic mission to Silicon Valley. Finally, only four participants obtained their ESTA (Electronic System for Travel Authorization), the entry permit to U.S. territory, while at the time of the online application, there were no problems. My question dates back to a few weeks and I draw up here the history of their refusal, because in the end, they all went there. It was only a few hours before the departure that an e-mail came to them from the United States, meaning that they were denied access to American territory. This is a regrettable decision, since it is young people, who carry ambitious projects that give a positive image of Brussels youth and the municipality of Molenbeek, who need it. In terms of discrimination, we could not do worse. In the meantime your services and those of your colleague Alexander De Croo have been contacted as well as those of the Secretary of State of Brussels, Cécile Jodoigne, in order to be able to solve the problem. MolenGeek and his representatives were able to arrive in the United States. I would like to understand what has happened and to contribute to the fact that it does not happen to others who may have less visibility than MolenGeek. We know that American immigration rules are very strict. Why did the US authorities refuse to grant permission to 8 of the 12 members of the MolenGeek delegation? Is this decision based on automatic, algorithmic, keyword-related analysis or a thorough analysis of US immigration services? Do you intend to take specific steps so that other young people in Molenbeek – we know the emotional burden that this word can have in the United States – do not experience the same misadventure? What measures and exchanges are envisaged with the US Embassy and authorities to ensure that this situation does not happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u40	Mr Minister, as my colleague has just mentioned, several members of the incubator MolenGeek have been denied access to the United States, even though their ESTA had previously been granted to them. In the end, only four of the twelve members of the MolenGeek delegation retained their ESTA. However, in the circumstances, they refused to fly on Friday, 15 September, at around noon. On the programme of their activities, the participants had visits such as the visit of the TechCrunch Disrupt in San Francisco, the visit of Google or Facebook. While the situation has now been unblocked, some questions remain. Minister, have your services had contact with the U.S. services to clarify this specific case? Is there a more comprehensive reflection in this context between your department and the United States of America?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u41	Colleagues, as soon as I was notified of this situation, my services in Brussels as well as our Consulate General in Los Angeles and our Embassy in Washington contacted their American colleagues. I would like to thank all those who have intervened to resolve this problem. In any case, I can tell you that we have had direct contact with the American services in charge of these matters. The contribution of Belgian diplomacy to this issue seems to have borne fruit, since, as you recalled, the members of the incubator MolenGeek were able to participate in the Brussels economic mission. They also thanked me and I told them that I would convey these thanks to those who acted directly. I met them when they were in New York. The lesson to be learned from this component is that you should not hesitate, when a problem occurs, to contact us. There had already been a refusal by ESTA, which had not been communicated to us. Perhaps it would have been easier if we had received this information upstream. I have told the head of MolenGeek, but this applies to everyone, that when problems of this kind arise, we are available to try to solve them. However, I would point out that we are not interfering with the internal procedure of the United States which leads to decisions on this matter. From what has been communicated to us, it seems that, in one case, there were a number of elements that justified the American reaction from their point of view, I am quite saying from their point of view, not from mine. You know that access to the territory is the exclusive competence of the State. As regards the more general situation, of course, the question of the free movement of persons is the subject of exchanges, both bilaterally and at European level with the United States. We are trying to see to what extent we can try to ensure that access is as easy as possible. I would remind you that the ESTA procedure is already a simplified procedure in this area. Otherwise, we need to go through more cumbersome visa procedures. I am pleased that the situation of these young people was quickly resolved as soon as they were informed. I met them in New York and told them that I would also gladly meet them in Molenbeek. If they go through the commune, it will obviously be even simpler. We should always be warned as soon as a problem arises. It seems, however, that this has happened, subject to the information that has been given to me. There was first a refusal for a person. Then, when they decided to leave in two groups, the entire group that was with that person was notified of a refusal. We therefore intervened to unblock the situation. But I cannot comment on the specific reasons in an individual case of American refusal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u42	Mr Minister, we all agree that it is a good thing that the situation has been unlocked and that you have met them, whether in New York or Molenbeek. It's not that far from Uccle. Don't hesitate! What is at issue here is that, on the basis, there was only one refusal and then eight of the twelve participants in the group were notified of a refusal. One then thinks directly of reasons that go beyond the individual situation of each. I cannot help but think that tomorrow, if this happens to other groups, not all of them will be able to contact you or your services. I find this difficult to imagine. Structurally, at some point, we should have an open dialogue with your American counterparts so that this kind of situation can no longer be represented. Again, MolenGeek because of his work, is often highlighted in the press for having met the King, yourself or others of your colleagues in the federal government. This startup has relays that others don't have. The purpose of my question is that, structurally, this does not happen to other groups of young people coming from the same municipality or another municipality potentially pointed to in American databases as dangerous. I don't know myself. Hence the objective of my question and the structural problem to be solved. We're all glad they were able to get there. Let's hope this kind of problem doesn't happen again!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answers. As has been said, these people were well known and could have been helped by your government. Because they were running an important project, the situation could be unlocked. You say that, if a similar situation still arises, you can be called upon. Therefore, how can people proceed because I am contacted by a lot of people who live in Molenbeek or elsewhere and who are called Mohammed, Rachid or Sarah and whose ESTA is refused for no reason, because the motive is not communicated to them. The trip is paid and it is relatively expensive. Insurance is not included, as ESTA's grounds for refusal do not allow reimbursement. How can we help citizens in such situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u44	Mr President, it is not in our traditions, but since the discussion is now extended to methods, I would remind you that ESTA is a simplified procedure. Therefore, a refusal does not lead to a ban on access to the territory, but simply imposes a standard visa procedure, with rigorous checks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u45	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u46	This is a simplified procedure. If ESTA is refused, there is no prohibition against opening a visa procedure. In other words, it is an ease that is granted on the American side. It is natural that if this simplified procedure is blocked, it is necessary to move on to a visa application – which many other countries simply use. Then, whatever the people involved – I would point out to you that we regularly receive requests, because it is consular assistance that we bring – a permanent phone number is open to Foreign Affairs. This therefore poses no difficulty. Another thing is to be able to convince the American authorities that the cases indicated did not pose any problems. I also point out that this is true regardless of the person's first name and whatever its origin. I cannot be a guarantor on behalf of my Department and, therefore, Belgium of an individual situation without knowing all the aspects of it. I never have a full knowledge of the information held on the American side, as is the case elsewhere. We can get in touch, but it is not enough to have submitted a request for access to the territory to automatically be able to do so. I repeat that this falls within the exclusive competence of the State itself. In other words, if ESTA is refused, a visa procedure is still possible. In addition, a call number is permanently open to Foreign Affairs. If someone has this kind of difficulty, we will record their request, exactly as with any other intervener. This does not pose any difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u47	Since Parliament has the last word, does the honourable Member wish to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u48	I would like to ask a simple question, which perhaps I should have made in advance. Minister, do you have any idea how many people ESTA has been refused since January 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u49	I can't answer you like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u50	I will therefore redraft a question very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u51	Deputy Prime Minister, as you were visiting the UN General Assembly, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration – you have not escaped – was delighted on Twitter to have met with a Sudanese delegation in Brussels Airport to help identify migrants at Maximilian Park. Your colleague is fully and publicly involved with the Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir's regime, the only current Head of State to be summoned to the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity in the Darfur region. A member of the Belgian government therefore invited the Sudanese police, at the orders of a tyrant, to help his services identify people who, precisely, are fleeing this dictatorial regime. Could you please tell me whether there is an agreement or a protocol between Belgium and Sudan concerning this cooperation between the Sudanese police and the services of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration? I learned that there was no written agreement. It's an oral agreement. Has the FPS Foreign Affairs been involved in this collaborative process between the two police forces? Does not the fact that Sudanese President al-Bashir is under two arrest warrants issued by the International Criminal Court on 4 March 2009 and 12 July 2010 encourage you to consider your colleague Theo Francken's collaboration with Sudan as diplomatically inappropriate? Is not your colleague's initiative such as to undermine Belgium's chances in his candidacy as a member of the United Nations Security Council? Under the Act of 15 May 2003, the Sudan is on a Belgian list for the embargo on the sale of goods and services related to military and paramilitary activities. Do you consider Belgian police cooperation with Sudan compatible with the spirit and letter of this embargo? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u52	Minister, when I submitted my question, there was still a risk that more Sudanese people would be expelled. Today it has become known that, after the Council of Foreigners' Contests, the Court of First Instance in Liège, I think, is also opposed to the change. Nevertheless, if I may believe the information in the newspaper, two Sudanese, according to one source, or even three Sudanese, according to the other source, have already been sent back to Sudan. Reports by human rights organisations such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have already shown that Sudanese people from Jordan, who were obliged to return to their country, were imprisoned and tortured. This gave me the idea to follow the fate of the Sudanese who are sent back from Belgium, for example through our embassy and possibly in consultation with an international organisation or NGO. Experience with the Sudanese people in Jordan has shown us that such a strategy is useful. I, like the Court of First Instance in Liège and the Council for Foreign Affairs, am opposed to the expulsion. I believe that Article 3 of the ECHR is clear. It seems to me that, in the case of expulsions, we should at least follow the fate of the people we are sending back to a regime that is not known for its high respect for human rights. That's our duty. That is why I urge you, if necessary, to organise this follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the cooperation with Sudan, and the broader context in which it fits, was largely explained by the Prime Minister in committee on 26 September. I will allow myself to quote it. "The relations between Belgium and Sudan are limited to the strict diplomatic minimum. This also applies to most European countries. Our diplomatic attitude towards the Sudan is exactly the same as that of the European Union and the majority of the Member States of the European Union, neither more nor less. In my opinion, those who wanted to undermine Belgium's image on the subject have committed a major mistake. When we look precisely and objectively at the attitude of the European Union, we have done neither more nor less than fit into the European Union's international relations practice, with a number of countries whose guidelines we absolutely do not share, on the contrary. Without being represented in Khartoum, Belgium has been following the situation since its embassy in Cairo. We support European action to strengthen stability through conflict resolution, protection of human rights and justice. This is also relayed internationally. Belgium, for example, took a very active role during the universal periodic review of the Sudan held at the Human Rights Council in May 2016. Moreover, for a few years, relations between the European Union and Sudan have improved independently of President Bashir. The mandate of an EU Special Envoy for the Horn of Africa was extended to Sudan and South Sudan in 2013. He's just in contact with the local authorities in order to get his job done. This position is shared by the EU Member States. Belgium follows the European trend in this dossier. The European institutions are developing a dialogue with African countries, including Sudan, within the framework of asylum and migration policies. End of quote. In relation to Sudan more specifically, the Prime Minister came to the following conclusion, which I quote because we have developed it in common: "In conclusion, Europe agreements and many channels of dialogue are under way with several states of origin whose practices we strongly condemn. Other Member States have practical co-operations of this kind, organising such missions. They are not exceptional. If we want to break the business model of smugglers, we need strong measures that prevent the setting up of relay stages on the way to Great Britain, mainly via the Libyan road." I can only confirm the Prime Minister's reply. We are working in the context of a European approach to the problem and we are following the same path as the other European countries. With regard to the clarifications that have been requested regarding the Act of 15 May 2003, I assume that you refer to the Act of 13 April 2003 on the implementation of restrictive measures adopted by the Council of the European Union against States, certain persons and entities. Since this law covers activities in the military and paramilitary field, the ad hoc technical cooperation to which you refer does not violate it. With regard to the follow-up of the Sudanese after their possible expulsion, I should refer you to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. He always has the opportunity to ask through my department for cooperation with our embassy on the ground. For Sudan, that's our embassy in Cairo. The Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration only has to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u54	Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You're talking about diplomatic relations being reduced to the bare minimum. Working with the political police of a dictatorship is not a diplomatic relationship reduced to the strict minimum. You say that the initiatives of collaboration between the Secretary of State and Sudan aim to stop the smugglers' business. Is it necessary to get involved in a collaboration which, as has been recognised in a judgment of the Liège Court today, is a violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights of which we are a party? "No one shall be subjected to torture, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment". You quote the Prime Minister who accuses some opposition parties of damaging the image of Belgium. I think it is this collaboration that undermines the image of Belgium. This can seriously damage your campaign for a seat on the United Nations Security Council. It is not the opposition parties that harm the image of Belgium, but a partner of the majority, namely Theo Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, I think I can infer from your answer that if you get a question from the Secretary of State, the answer will not necessarily be negative. I will take your suggestion to heart and inform the Secretary of State that I regard it as the absolute minimum. I have already said what I think about cooperation with Sudan, when we talked about this with the Prime Minister. I will not repeat that here. I think follow-up is the minimum of what we can do. Cooperation means giving representatives of the Sudanese state the opportunity to decide who should return to Sudan and who should not. I think it is our duty to let the Sudanese authorities know that we will follow those they ask to return to Sudan, because we want to know what is happening to them. I will therefore put that question to the Secretary of State and I hope you will respond positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u56	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, my question was tabled on 15 September. Meanwhile the Nobel Prize was awarded to the ICAN and my question at the time did not yet take it into account. As we discussed it together in October and December 2016, a courageous initiative to draft a treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons finally came to fruition. The text had been opened for ratification on 20 September and would enter into force after fifty States had signed it. The main argument that brought this initiative to the Nobel Committee's attention was that the atomic weapon would "have catastrophic humanitarian consequences if it were to be used." Its ambition is to outlaw nuclear weapons by following what has been done previously for biological weapons since 1972 and chemical weapons since 1993, biological and chemical weapons, both of which are weapons of mass destruction such as nuclear weapons. This major political breakthrough was made possible by the vote of 122 out of 192 countries at the United Nations on 7 July. As you announced at the end of last year, Belgium voted against it by following the incomprehensible position of official nuclear powers such as France, Great Britain, China, the United States and Russia. However, sometimes allied countries within NATO and Belgium's partners within the Union, such as Ireland, Sweden or Austria, have voted in favour and have even actively supported the process in question. Our Dutch neighbours, who had courageously participated in the discussions and abstained in the conclusions of the Open-ended working group on nuclear disarmament, finally voted against the final text. On 3 September, the Communist dictatorship of North Korea announced that it had carried out a sixth nuclear test: it claimed to have detonated a hydrogen bomb. The vote in the United Nations was three days after Pyongyang's first test of an intercontinental missile, which now puts Alaska within the reach of nuclear fire, not to mention South Korea and Japan. These atomic provocations have thrown world public opinion into immense perplexity and plunged our world into fear and fear, which obviously prompted the Nobel Committee to award the Nobel Prize a few days ago to the international platform of associations for the abolition of nuclear weapons, the ICAN.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u57	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, does not Belgium's lack of support for the Treaty to ban Belgian nuclear weapons put our country in a politically sensitive situation, in clear contradiction with the anti-nuclear discourses systematically carried by our country? Could Belgium ever ratify this treaty, taking advantage of the path laid down by the 2017 Nobel Peace Prize? Knowing that the possession by our main allies, including our own territory, of nuclear weapons does not deter North Korea from acquiring the same type of weapons, is the very idea of deterrence not discredited?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u58	Mr President, you told me that my question No 20765 had already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u59	Mr President, Minister, this treaty was adopted at the United Nations on 7 July, but the nuclear powers (United States, Russia, United Kingdom, China, France, India, Pakistan, North Korea and Israel) refused to participate in the process. This text therefore remains largely symbolic at a time when North Korea is accelerating its weapons programme and international tension is rarely reached as to the possibility of nuclear conflict between North Korea and the United States. The Treaty was adopted by 122 votes in favour, one against – that of the Netherlands, a member of NATO – and one abstention. Its supporters see this as a historic achievement, but the nuclear States consider it unrealistic, considering that it will have no impact on the reduction of the current global stockpile of some 15,000 nuclear warheads, argue that their arsenal serves as a deterrent against a possible nuclear attack, and recall that they remain committed to the 1968 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). In particular, it makes States responsible for the reduction of their stocks. The treaty, which calls for a total ban on the development, stockpiling and threat of use of nuclear weapons, will apply only to signatories. It will be open for ratification from 20 September and will enter into force after its signature by fifty countries. North Korea, for its part, is accelerating its nuclear and ballistic weapons programme despite the NPT and has recently tested an intercontinental missile for the first time. The United States, supported by several allies, called for stronger sanctions against Pyongyang, and suggested that the military option remained on the table. But non-nuclear countries denounce the slow pace of disarmament and fear that these weapons of mass destruction will eventually fall into the wrong hands. Minister, what is the position of the Belgian Government in this matter? What is the situation in NATO?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u60	Mr Minister, I agree with the introduction of my fellow Members and I will immediately ask my five questions. Unless I am mistaken, I have never seen any congratulations from the Department of Foreign Affairs towards the IBAN in obtaining the Nobel Prize. If that is the case, I apologize. I thought it was a tradition in our country to send congratulations on the award of the Nobel Peace Prize. Do you agree that the new prohibition treaty signed in New York on 7 July 2017 is complementary to the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT)? If not, for what specific reasons? Do you think that the new prohibition treaty is satisfactory in terms of verification and safeguards? If not, for what specific reasons? Do you agree that the submission of a verifiable plan to complete the decommissioning of nuclear arsenals corresponds perfectly to the elaboration of the promise of full disarmament in the NPT? If not, for what specific reasons? Are you prepared to remind the opponents of the Treaty of their legal obligation under the Non-Proliferation Treaty and to make it clear to them that disarmament is not a purely political commitment? Are you prepared to take concrete steps before the end of the current legislature to implement the resolution of the Federal Parliament of April 2015 on the removal of nuclear weapons from Kleine-Brogel? If not, why are you ignoring Parliament's will? In recent years, Belgium has consistently advocated the importance of transparency within international fora. That is also one of the 25 so-called progressive proposals promoted by Belgium. How credible can Belgium be in favour of transparency if you refuse any transparency about the presence of nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel? Does such a refusal not undermine the entire credibility of the so-called progressive agenda? If not, why not? Belgium also stressed, within international fora, the reduction of the importance of nuclear weapons in security doctrines. However, the last NATO summit did not reduce the importance of nuclear weapons in the NATO doctrine. Does it not undermine the entire credibility of the so-called progressive agenda? If not, why not? Are you prepared to demand such a reduction explicitly and publicly at the next NATO summit? What concrete initiatives will Belgium, together with Iraq, take over the next two years as President of the CTBT Conference? In what specific way do you think these initiatives will have a concrete impact? What specific elements make you think that Belgium and Iraq will succeed this time where other countries have been failing for 21 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u61	Minister, it was announced on 6 October that the International Coalition against Nuclear Weapons has won the Nobel Peace Prize. The organisation was awarded the prize for its commitment to the establishment of a nuclear weapons ban treaty signed in New York on 20 September. As is well known, Belgium refused to sign that treaty, like the other NATO countries, because it supports the so-called progressive approach to disarmament within the framework of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. We have already had a discussion on this. I have a few questions for you, Minister. Do you think that the award of the Nobel Prize to the International Coalition against Nuclear Weapons is right, given the Belgian Government's position? I also agree with Mr Van der Maelen's question: some congratulations due to the Belgian Government have escaped my eye. The only concrete obligation that Belgium would have if it were to sign the Treaty would be the removal of nuclear weapons from Kleine-Brogel, according to Article 4 (4). That is also what the Parliament resolution of 23 April 2015 calls on the government to do. Will the government take further steps to free the ground-based nuclear weapon? The Non-Proliferation Treaty already contains the legal obligation for nuclear States to move towards disarmament. Will Belgium remind these countries of their obligation? How will Belgium fill in the Presidency of the CTBT Conference? What steps will Belgium promote in order to achieve the entry into force of the CTBT Convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium's support for a world without nuclear weapons remains firm and this objective will be achieved through a realistic and effective approach. However, the treaty banning nuclear weapons does not provide an effective basis for progress in the dismantling of nuclear weapons, as it contains structural weaknesses that make it inadequate as an instrument for disarmament, including the absence of a verification regime, credible verification mechanisms to build the necessary trust between States parties and to detect possible non-compliance with those obligations. This is an essential point in view of the destructive force without equivalent nuclear weapons. Let us compare with the New START Treaty between the United States and Russia on strategic nuclear weapons. The verification regime is explained in an annex of 165 pages. The Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons is a 10.5-page text with no specific development regarding verification measures. A number of elements of the text could even have a negative impact on certain components of the global non-proliferation regime, such as the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards system and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. The Treaty establishes its primacy over other norms. It does not encourage States to join the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. The guarantee agreements to be concluded by the signatory States with the International Atomic Energy Agency are also below the standards advocated by Belgium and the European Union. Earlier in the negotiations, we warned of the risks of polarization and diversion of international tension to the detriment of nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament priorities. Unfortunately, these consequences are being realized in practice. Yet, in the current context of increased international tension, constructive dialogue with the participation of all concerned States, including nuclear-weapon States, remains essential in order to make progress on nuclear disarmament. This treaty will not prevent North Korea from pursuing its nuclear objectives. Only real international unity and pressure will prevent North Korea from acquiring nuclear weapons. I would add that no nuclear-weapon States have participated in the negotiations of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and none intend to sign it. While it is true that we must not wait for others to take the first step, we must only take this step if it brings us closer to a world without nuclear weapons. We are also members of a military alliance, NATO, which has a united and united position on this issue. I also recall that NATO has significantly reduced the number of nuclear weapons in Europe and their role in its defence policy. Within the European Union, only two States, Austria and Ireland, have signed the Treaty to date. With regard to the Nobel Prize to the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, I can congratulate this organisation for raising our awareness of the importance of nuclear disarmament. We share the goal of a world without nuclear weapons, but we disagree on the way there. In any case, the Nobel Prize reminds us that our work is not over yet. I have no problem reminding all countries of their obligations under the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Not only the nuclear weapons states, but also all the other countries have an obligation to create the conditions that can make a world without nuclear weapons possible. This can be done, for example, by improving the global security context and removing regional tensions. With regard to the question of transparency, we must note that there is a distorted situation in which Western countries have made significantly greater efforts than others. However, greater clarity on the nuclear doctrine of other countries would also help to create the necessary confidence that could lead to further steps in reducing the role of nuclear weapons in our doctrine. With regard to the US nuclear weapons in Europe, I would like to remind you that our country has systematically advocated the launch of new negotiations between the US and Russia on nuclear disarmament, including tactical nuclear weapons. I regret the lack of constructive commitment from the Russian side in this regard. Polarisation does not bring us any closer to our ultimate goal. Belgium is therefore engaged in a constructive dialogue with all countries, including those aiming at a different approach. For our part, we will continue to support concrete initiatives. In addition to our actions on behalf of the CTBT, Belgium will continue to be part of a limited group of countries that devise technical solutions to the challenges of nuclear weapons decommissioning verification. We are open to all realistic actions that can bring us closer to a world without nuclear weapons. There were also a number of questions about the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, CBTO. With regard to the nuclear ban treaty, I would like to point out that only a world without nuclear tests can lead to a world without nuclear weapons. Only the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty can apply a definitive ban on nuclear tests, which cannot be circumvented by clandestine testing. I will be fully committed to the entry into force of this Treaty, without naivety but with a realistic look at the steps we can take to bring this crucial treaty closer to its completion. A first step in our co-chairship was the organisation of the Ministerial Conference in the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York on 20 September. Belgium has prepared this conference in depth, both in terms of substance and in terms of sensitisation. We brought the negotiation of the final declaration to a successful conclusion, so that the conference could be concluded with a unanimous endorsement of the nuclear ban treaty. We were also able to count on a large high-level representative. The UN Secretary-General took part in the conference as well as numerous delegations at Minister and State Secretary level. The EU High Representative, Federica Mogherini, was also present. The next step is that before the end of the year, together with Iraq, we will propose an action plan to the Member States with an initiative to support CBT. An important element in this is the political démarches to those Member States which have not yet acceded to the Convention. For example, I intend to address my American colleague when I meet him within a few weeks. Parliament plays an influential role in some countries. We will not neglect this trail. The Belgian Parliament can also play a role by making contact with fellow Members in countries that have not yet joined. We will also focus on raising awareness of civil society and young people. In all countries, young people represent the future. It is important to teach them the value of the nuclear ban treaty. We will also pay attention to the scientific dimension of the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. The CBT has made a concrete contribution to scientific research and cooperation. For example, the verification system has played a role in the previous warning for tsunami pests or in the investigation of incidents involving nuclear installations such as Fukushima. These scientific achievements could be even better evaluated in support of the Convention. Mr President, I can confirm to you that we will continue to invest in order to ensure the effectiveness of the treaties combating the proliferation of nuclear weapons. As this is our role as coordinator, we will continue to work on the implementation of the Treaty banning any nuclear test. We will aim for real progress, not mere announcements or texts that we believe do not really guarantee progress towards a world without nuclear weapons. I will not paraphrase the words of a President of the French Republic. It seems that Mr. Van der Maelen loves the region of Liège very much. He had repeated it in Liège. The pacifists are in the west, but the missiles are in the east. Even if we are no longer entirely in this post-cold-war logic, I will still be concerned when nuclear weapons remain only in the hands of certain dictatorships around the world. Together, I would like us to try to prevent these dictatorships from gaining access to nuclear weapons or, if it is useful and possible, to pull them back and dismantle the arsenal; but not to do so with incantations addressed solely to societies that share the values that we are trying to spread throughout the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u63	Minister, the information is that we do not sign this treaty because we are members of NATO. That's the information you just gave. We must therefore follow its strategic doctrine, while 122 out of 192 countries sign this treaty. It is still a very strong legitimacy, almost universal. Belgium cannot promote a world without nuclear weapons by supporting only "à la carte" the diplomatic tools available to achieve this. The non-proliferation treaty is under way, as well as the test-ban treaty, for which you play a role, as well as the arms-ban treaty. The Nobel Peace Prize awarded to ICAN gives decisive political weight to an approach that was not taken seriously by a minority of states. The Nobel Committee considered this approach to be realistic and effective. He would otherwise not have awarded this, the most prestigious, prize to this association. The nuclear-weapon-ban treaty is a course. This is an objective, as are the treaties banning chemical and biological weapons. Unfortunately, this does not prevent some dictators from using them. I'm not going to go back to the sad Syrian episodes. You can still sign this treaty. At least that's the good news. In this way, you can align what you say to North Korea with our allies. Indeed, how can we be credible in claiming that we do not want nuclear weapons for dictatorships when we do not get rid of our own?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u64	Minister, there is a great deal of concern. It is true that today we are asking more and more questions. We're talking about war. It's really very disturbing. All you can do to counteract this is positive. You say that the treaty is not complete and that it is not well drafted. All right! You're probably right. But signing it would be a gesture, even if it were to act so that it would then be reviewed, corrected, improved. Not taking a stand is worrying. I really encourage you to go in that direction, even though there are still many other steps that you can pursue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u65	Minister, the Treaty of 7 July is a cry from, as Mr Hellings rightly said, a large majority of the countries. That distress call is a result of a very painful finding. This observation is that the so-called progressive agenda that our government supports is based on an agreement negotiated in the 1960s and culminated in the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Quite simply, that non-proliferation treaty was a deal between the five nuclear states of the moment and the rest of the world. The deal was that the five nuclear states would reduce their arsenals and the other countries would commit not to develop nuclear weapons. That appointment, Minister, went wrong. The five nuclear states have not kept their end of the bargain. Fifty years later, there are still about 14 500 nuclear warheads in the possession of those five nuclear weapons states. Instead of dismantling, several of those five nuclear weapons states are modernising the nuclear arsenal. The United States, for example, is investing a trillion dollars in it, and the Russians have less money, but they are also doing so. Other countries have seen that. Between 1970 and today, we have evolved from five nuclear-weapon states to nine nuclear-weapon countries. So it's a definite failure. On the one hand, the nuclear weapons States have not kept their word, on the other hand, nuclear weapons have been added, and that is what you are right about, Mr President-in-Office, not the most sympathetic countries. I fear to note that there is a nuclear arms race on the way. For example, I see how the President of the United States is raging against Iran. Fortunately, I know that Europe, including our country, does not agree with the withdrawal of the Iranian nuclear deal. If, however, the President of the United States gets what he wants, then you can take poison that will soon also have nuclear weapons in Iran. The deal is preventing Iran from getting nuclear weapons. The so-called progressive agenda is therefore a total failure. However, we do not want to face that. So far, some 70 countries have signed the Convention of 7 July, and that call is quite justified. We've had enough. Nuclear weapons must be declared illegal and all states, regardless of whether they are democratically governed, must abide by them. With the commitment of all those States that do comply with the Convention, pressure must be put on those States that do not abide by it. If we do not, then we are on our way to a new nuclear arms race, on our way to a much more unsafe world than we have known for the last 50 years. This is a result of the failure of the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I think it is good that Belgium will make a technical effort to improve the verification mechanisms. We can make this contribution effectively. Frankly, I think we can speak of a great missed opportunity. One hundred and twenty countries have united and made a statement. I believe that a country such as Belgium should join in with this tout court, just because it is better to take more steps in that direction. You say it will only increase polarization and tension. Which polarization do you mean exactly? Perhaps the polarisation within NATO will increase because colleagues of yours would not appreciate that Belgium would engage within that UN route. However, we must be realistic. The disarmament pathways within the NPT are completely shut down. So we need a trigger to speed up nuclear disarmament again. The UN Convention, signed by 122 countries, could be a trigger, especially if a NATO Member State, for example Belgium, were to join. If a NATO Member State signs the UN Convention, it could lead other countries to reflect and move in the system that is now flat and actually dead. If you don't want to see that, you're seeing blind. The more steps towards a nuclear-free world, the better. After all, an accident happened quickly. I like to hear all these academics talking about deterrence and deterrents, but the risk of a nuclear accident is so great and the impact is so great that we need to take effective steps. Now nothing's moving. Moreover, I do not think there is any unilateral withdrawal so that only North Korea remains with nuclear weapons. We should not, of course, make that mistake, but I do not think that the Treaty should be a reason for that either. The treaty is an additional means of exerting pressure to make a joint statement, to work towards disarmament. Again, symbolically it would have been very important for Belgium to join. It would move in that NATO system and in nuclear disarmament within the non-proliferation treaties, which is now completely quiet. So I speak effectively of a great missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u67	Mr President, Minister, the European Medicines Agency (EMA), currently based in London, will have to move to a new location after the Brexit. Nineteen cities have applied, including Brussels. Several of these candidate cities have already received an EEA delegation leading up to the relocation process. Amsterdam, Athens, Barcelona, Copenhagen, Malta, Milan and Vienna already received an EEA delegation. Have we already supported our candidacy as a host country with an EEA visit, or will we do so, to show what facilities we can offer? If so, when would this take place? If not, why not let this visit take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u68	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat the question in detail. Next month a decision will be taken on new destinations for, among others, the European Medicines Agency and the European Banking Authority, which, as a result of the Brexit, will not be established in London. We have applied to host both agencies. Our capital is not only in its ambitions, several proposals have been put forward. Eighteen candidates volunteered. Minister, you launched a campaign to welcome the agencies to Brussels. The building that was pushed forward as a potential headquarters, The One, is located in the heart of Europe, with its location in the Rue de la Loi. We are curious about the results. What budget have you made available for this campaign? What is your approach to this campaign? How do you want to highlight our strength in order to convince the fellow Member States to support us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a four-member EEA delegation visited Belgium on 31 May to visit the various sites proposed by Belgium to the European Medicines Agency. This was one of the first visits the European Medicines Agency made. It was very welcomed. My services also visited the EEA several times in London. These visits allowed us to tailor our offer even better to the requirements of the European Medicines Agency and to submit a very strong candidacy. To date, the FPS Foreign Affairs Office has spent 19 584 euros on the campaign. These funds were complemented by smaller contributions from the three Regions and the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products, which worked intensively together in the preparation of the campaign. These resources were used for the design of the website ematobe.eu, the layout of the promotional leaflet and other campaign materials, and the organisation of a promotional event on 3 October in the building The One. As you pointed out, our campaign focuses on three key arguments: continuity, synergy and connectivity. The European Commission and the EEA have recognised the strength of these arguments in their respective evaluations. On the basis of these technical arguments, Brussels always ended with the top candidates. Our ambassadors also carried out démarches in the European capitals to strengthen these arguments and convince the other Member States to vote for Brussels. In the various European fora, such as the General Affairs Council on 17 October, I myself take the opportunity to discuss the Belgian candidacy with my fellow Members. There are many candidates, that is correct, but I heard all the criteria of the various European countries and of the Commission yesterday. We have a perfect solution with Brussels in this regard. I do not foresee any difficulties, but well, it will be another story when the decision is taken in November. I hope it will be taken on the basis of objective criteria. I must also say that, thanks to good cooperation with the various federated entities, it was possible to get a first candidacy, stating that other sites in Belgium are also possible. The discussion in the Consultative Committee was very useful. You know that there were three possible locations in the three Belgian regions, but in the end everyone thought that our main opportunity was in Brussels. The other possibilities remain. Yesterday there was only a round table for a first presentation of the various candidates. I believe that we have a very good dossier, but this will also partly be a political decision at European level. So I do not know yet whether we have a real chance of success. We are trying to do everything we can to defend a very concrete and efficient candidacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u70	Minister, I am glad to hear that Brussels is a top candidate. Of course, I didn't expect anything else from you. I am also pleased that you are also with your colleagues in Europe. If I understand correctly, the EEA's visit to Brussels took place before our final location was actually established. So we have actually looked at it on the basis of that and of further elements. I think it might have been a missed opportunity to put the yet beautiful location that we have now put forward in the spotlight at the EEA. I believe, however, that we have a good chance and that this would be very good for the appearance of our country if we also brought this agency in, although we are already well-off. As you yourself say, this is, of course, a political decision. I hope that this last month you will make this process a success.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u71	Minister, it sounds good, it's a promising story. Of course, we do not know the final outcome of this, but the story as you describe it seems to show sufficient effort. I also commend the cooperation with the Regions in this regard. It would be a good added value for Brussels and would give the capital even more radiance. I'd say good luck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u72	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 20636 question was converted into a written question at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u73	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the Sykes-Picot accords between France and the United Kingdom in 1916 divided the Kurdish people over four distinct nations, over the remains of the Ottoman Empire, by providing for the sharing of the Middle East at the end of the First World War, in a space between the Black Sea, the Mediterranean Sea, the Red Sea, the Indian Ocean and the Caspian Sea, with the result, for a hundred years now, that this people have been self-sufficient in relation to these four countries. At the end of the first Gulf war, Iraqi Kurdistan benefited from the protection of an area of exclusion from its territory. Over the past two decades, his administration has been structured to now demand independence from Iraq through a referendum. Beyond a nationalist will, the stakes are important as these disputed areas include the multi-ethnic province of Kirkuk (northern), rich in oil, but also sectors of the provinces of Nineveh (northern), Dyala and Salaheddine (northern Baghdad). Most of these areas had been conquered by Kurdish fighters in 2014, in the wake of chaos following the offensive of the Islamic jihadist group. The "yes" won with 92.73 per cent according to the results of this referendum organized by this autonomous region, despite the opposition of the central government in Baghdad and many capitals. Of the 3,305,925 voters, the "yes" received 92.73 per cent and the "no" 7.27%, according to the Kurdistan Electoral Commission. The participation was 72.16 per cent. The reaction of neighbouring countries was rapid, starting with a boycott of air links with Erbil and Suleimaniyah airports built with money from the autonomous region. According to the Kurdish authorities, their closures will affect the assistance provided to the international coalition in its war on terrorism. Minister, what is Belgium's official response to the results of this vote? What about your counterparts in the European Union? Ankara, fiercely opposed to this referendum, holds the key to Kurdistan's asphyxiation because almost all of its oil passes through its Ceyhan terminal. How can Kurdistan develop socio-economically without relying almost exclusively on its oil resources? The United Nations called for compromises. Do you think possible transitional measures towards greater autonomy in this region without hitting Baghdad? Can Belgium, through the European Union, play a role in possible future negotiations between Baghdad and Erbil?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u74	Mr Flahaux, Iraq is now at a crucial moment, as you know. In recent years, the struggle against Daesh has led to the unity of all parties and communities in favour of the common goal of undoing this criminal movement. Now that Iraq's reconquest is nearing its end, this unit can break down or, on the contrary, serve as a basis for national reconstruction after years of conflict. In this fragile context, all actions that can cause additional tensions in Iraq must be avoided. The European Union, with the full support of Belgium, has always supported Iraq's unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity. It had requested that the referendum not be held unilaterally, particularly in disputed territories. However, the Kurdish regional government chose to do so on 25 September. I note that the referendum has not so far been followed by other unilateral acts on the part of the Kurdish regional government, and in particular not by a declaration of independence. However, the Federal Government in Baghdad has taken and called for a series of retaliatory measures, including the interruption of international air relations with Kurdistan. In addition, in recent days, the Iraqi army has occupied a series of strategic points in the province and city of Kirkuk, despite statements in the opposite direction to coalition partners. The information on this subject is confused, I must acknowledge, and it is not easy to know exactly what is happening. Violent incidents have apparently remained limited, but in any case the situation is clearly very tense. The European Union and Belgium deplore this situation and call on all parties concerned to remain calm and act with restraint. Iraq really does not need more violence. It is particularly important that every effort be made to establish as soon as possible, between Baghdad and Erbil, a peaceful and constructive dialogue leading to a mutually acceptable solution within the framework of the Iraqi Constitution. This is all the more important since the fight against Daesh has not yet been completed and must remain a priority. On the other hand, the reconstruction of the liberated territories, the return of refugees and the establishment of a truly inclusive society of all its components are major challenges that Iraq urgently faces. I hope that we will be able to move forward on this path of dialogue, which we advocate wherever this type of tension can occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u75	Deputy Prime Minister, it is true that the situation is particularly tense. It is all the more difficult because the fight against those I call the "Naz Islamists" is not over, as you pointed out. It was also seen that Iran had also taken retaliatory measures in terms of air links to Erbil. Deputy Prime Minister, I am speaking to you, who are wearing the hat of a Deputy Prime Minister, but also that of a former party president. The expertise of the Belgians, who have carried out regular state reforms, often helps to avoid many conflicts. In other parts of the world, not only in Kurdistan, but also in Catalonia or elsewhere, we can hope to achieve this kind of result. Mr President, I turn all of my following questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u76	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemage's 20641 and Mr Blanchart's 20813 and 20814 are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 208, by Mr Miller and No 20852 Mr Dallemagne's 20865 will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament No 20855 and 21060 Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale No 20856 by Mrs Lalieux and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u77	Minister, over the last few days and weeks, Russia and Belarus held a large-scale military exercise, Zapad 17, at the borders of Ukraine, Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania. In addition, the Russian annexation of Crimea continues and the European Union renewed sanctions against Russia on 14 September 2017, this time until 15 March 2018. This military exercise and the continued violation of Ukrainian territoriality put even more pressure on Russia's already tense relationship with the European Union and NATO. Furthermore, worrying reports of disinformation campaigns, interference in elections and attempts to influence partner countries' policies continue to reach us. This led to a further deterioration of confidence. So, Minister, my questions to you are as follows. Firstly, the Russian authorities had noted that about 12 700 soldiers would participate in the military exercise Zapad 17. However, NATO thought that it would be between 70 000 and 100 000 men. Can you explain that military exercise? What impact do you think the exercise on Russia's relations with the European Union and NATO will have? Secondly, what is the state of play regarding the implementation of the Minsk agreements and the OSCE's access to the conflict zone in Ukraine? What efforts have been made to this end? Thirdly, it is important that the European Union should be able to speak with a common voice towards Russia in order to avoid weakening the European Union. How does the discussion within the European Union evolve? Fourthly, on 13 July 2017, the NATO-Russia Council (NRC) met again. How's the dialogue going? In an interview with Politico, Secretary-General Jagland of the Council of Europe noted that Russia could leave the Council by losing its right to vote after the annexation of Crimea. What assessment do you make of a possible cessation of Russian membership of the Council of Europe? Finally, can you explain the position of the United States with regard to Russia's attitude? What impact does the American position have on the Russian attitude? Thank you in advance for answering all the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u78	Mr President, Minister, as a reminder, since April 2014, the Russian delegation no longer sits in the Chamber of the Council of Europe, whose doors it slammed after having been withdrawn from some of its powers, including the right to vote, in response to the annexation of Crimea. Moscow announced last June that it would not pay the balance of its participation in the Council of Europe budget for 2017, i.e. EUR 11 million. Therefore, my question is as follows. A Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe and PACE was held in principle this month to resume dialogue with the Russian Federation. What will be our country's position in this context and what are the ways forward to address this budgetary challenge in an already difficult context for the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Zapad 2017 exercise was closely followed by NATO and the analysis of, among other things, the real numbers of troops will take a few months. However, it is clear that Russian participation in the Zapad exercise is a multiple of what Russia has officially announced, namely 12 700 men. In the past, Russia has frequently proposed the size of its exercises too small to avoid observation under the OSCE rules. Both Russia and Belarus invited military representatives from NATO Member States during that exercise, but this is not comparable to the necessary transparency based on the Vienna Document. The exercise once again underlines Russian assertiveness. The lack of communication illustrates Russia's attitude towards the EU and NATO and Russian foreign security policy. The Minsk Agreements provide a general framework for a de-escalation of the conflict in eastern Ukraine, but only partially implemented so far, including provisions providing for administrative autonomy for eastern Ukraine and the admission of Ukrainian control over the international border with the Russian Federation. The new arms stock announced at the end of August is still in place, although the tension continues, including through shooting exercises and the positioning of heavy weapons along the buffer zone. The OSCE Special Monitoring Mission (SMM) has full access to the conflict zone on the basis of its mandate, but this is not respected in practice. Following a fatal incident during a patrol in April, the SMM itself uses restrictions in the execution of patrols for security reasons. In addition, the OSCE is conducting an observation mission at two Russian border checkpoints. With regard to the overall relationship between the EU and Russia, it can be said that the EU's united position with regard to Russia remains in place. Russian interference in Ukraine, in particular the illegal annexation of Crimea and the conflict in the eastern part of the country, has led the EU to adopt a series of economic and diplomatic sanctions, which continue to apply today, given the lack of progress in the field and the limited progress in the implementation of the Minsk agreements. Sanctions are not an end in themselves, but a means of achieving our political objectives. They therefore fit in with a holistic approach which should safeguard the possibility of dialogue. Since 2016, the NATO-Russia Council has met five times, with the aim of building a meaningful dialogue. Fixed elements in this dialogue are risk reduction and transparency, Ukraine and Afghanistan. Opinions remain strongly opposed to Ukraine. With regard to the situation in Afghanistan, the views on national reconciliation are different but there is a mutual security interest in Afghanistan's stability. The issue of risk reduction and transparency has the greatest potential. For example, Russia first briefed on the exercises Zapad and GAF-NATO for the first time on 13 July. In November 2017 there will be a briefing about the Trident Javelin exercise. Especially in times of increased tension, communication lines should be kept open to reduce the risk of incidents. The NRC certainly has a place in this. The State Department and the US Congress play an active role in the formulation of American policy positions vis-à-vis Russia on the basis of the principle of administration that unity and cooperation with European partners should continue to be sought, both as regards Ukraine and the Russian and other international threats to the security and freedom of the West. In early August 2017, Congress signed sanctions legislation for President Trump against Russia, Iran and North Korea to limit the expanding Russian influence in Europe and Eurasia. The US has undertaken to consult its allies on their practical implementation. Furthermore, NATO remains the ideal alliance for the US to guarantee freedom and security, as reiterated by the new US ambassador to NATO last week. As far as the Council of Europe is concerned, the question of the withdrawal of the right to vote and of a series of associated rights of members of the Russian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is complex and sensitive. Like Belgium, Russia attaches great importance to the pan-European dialogue platform of the various Council of Europe institutions, including PACE. This platform has proven to be useful on many occasions in the past, and this dialogue has resulted in many legal instruments of great benefit to all 47 members of the Council. As you know, the decision to withdraw rights is taken by the other members of the Assembly. It resulted in a Russian decision not to attend PACE sessions since 2014. It is not my task to comment on the merits or appropriateness of this decision on both sides, but I note that the resulting Russian absence deprives parliamentarians of a useful channel of communication and dialogue. As you indicate in your question, following the exclusion of its delegates, Moscow recently decided to partially suspend its contributions to the Council of Europe. As Russia is one of the largest payers, this will not fail to affect the activities of the Council of Europe and its bodies. The meeting you are referring to in your question on how to solve this problem has not been conclusive. In the face of these developments, Belgium advocates dialogue with Russia, in the interest of the Council of Europe, which provides its 47 members with unique standards and mechanisms on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, but also, and above all, for the benefit of Russian citizens, whose human rights are protected and guaranteed by a series of instruments emanating from it, including the European Court of Human Rights. The question of the budget is obviously very urgent in this context, and our country will continue to advocate for a more efficient allocation of resources and a more in-depth analysis of the various expenditure items, in order to better identify where savings can still be made. In addition, our country will advocate to safeguard activities and initiatives that fall directly under the Council of Europe's pillars of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. But, as you know, it is a doctrine that we have been following for a long time, which is to be very firm on the points where there are a number of differences and criticisms, sometimes even to argue against the Russian authorities, but to remain at the same time open to dialogue, because there are a lot of issues on which we must be able to dialogue with Russia. In the agreements that have been concluded in recent years, I will mention in particular the Paris Agreement on Climate. It was obviously very important for Russia to participate. So we will continue, on these relations with Russia, with the same firmness when it is necessary and the same concern for dialogue when we think it is still useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I'll replicate very briefly. As you pointed out at the beginning, I believe that the Russian attitude is assertive, not to say aggressive, which sometimes does not benefit the dialogue. This puts pressure on Russia's relations with NATO and European partners. However, it is important to maintain dialogue with Russia. Former so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign I believe that the path of dialogue is the path we must continue to follow in order to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u81	Mr President, I did not have the latest updates on the agenda. That explains why I was a little misguided. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer to this issue. The last point mentioned is an interesting example of reflection within the Council of Europe. The exclusion of a partner prevents possible dialogue and necessarily worsens the situation on the ground. I think it is better to pull the partners up, even if sometimes it is hard to say, rather than to exclude any dialogue that prevents us from finding possible solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u82	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, after Le Figaro of 28 September, a confidential United Nations document considers that the circumstances of the death of Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld are not accidental. His plane was reportedly shot down. Tanzanian judge Mohamed Chande Othman, who has been in charge of the investigation since February 2017, submitted on 9 August this year to Antonio Guterres, a report that reflects new elements, notably provided by the US, English and, welcome, Belgian governments. In November 2016, you stated that your department had worked with the utmost transparency on all the expert group's requests. However, in response to one of my written questions on 23 February, your colleague in charge of justice, Mr Geens, stated that the State Security had not been consulted by UN investigators during their visit to Belgium. However, beyond the original documents of that time, we know that the State Security now stores part of the so-called African archives, formerly stored in your service, at the SPF Foreign Affairs. I am thinking in particular of documents from colonial security. Deputy Prime Minister, these are my questions. One of the main advances of this investigation concerns the verification of the statements of a French diplomat, Claude de Kémoularia, to whom a former Belgian fighter pilot named or nicknamed Beukels or Breukels, allegedly confided in 1967, evoking a blunder after an attempt to hijack the aircraft in question. Judge Othman had access to the agenda, letters and other personal documents of this French diplomat. However, he cannot determine the exact identity of our possible compatriot. Will you finally demand from the State Security that it cooperates closely with the United Nations on research concerning this Beukels or Breukels and this time involve it in the centralized research process by your department? Your department was indeed the interlocutor of the United Nations research team when it came to Brussels. In his recommendations, which will be made public next week, on 25 October, Judge Othman asks the UN itself, but above all the countries involved in this case – including Belgium – to make every effort to declassify and make available to investigators all the data that could shed light on this case. On the other hand, it calls on the countries concerned to state explicitly and unequivocally that they do not possess this type of historical material. In order to fulfil our international commitments, do you intend to ask the Sûreté de l'Etat for the declassification of documents dating back to 1962? Fifty-five years is a relatively long time, let us agree. If not, can you state explicitly that Belgium does not have one? In any case, this is what you will be asking very formally for in the report which will be issued on 25 October.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u83	Mr. Hellings, since last year, when you asked me about this investigation, the eminent person who was in charge of prosecuting it – Mr. Othman – asked our country new questions, which required further research in the public archives available. They were undertaken both in the archives of my department and in the archives of the Defence and State Security. The latter two, whose collaboration I had sought, participated in this survey. The Sûreté declassified a number of documents, including consultations with the "Sûreté congolaise" Fund. During these new searches, no trace of a Belgian pilot named or nicknamed Beukels was found. Mr. Othman received documents and thanked Belgium for them. I recall that his report, which was delivered on 9 August to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, has not yet been communicated to the Member States. We are therefore not yet aware of the conclusions, nor of Mr. Othman's recommendations. My department has therefore continued to work with the utmost transparency and willingness in the United Nations investigation into the circumstances of the death of Dag Hammarskjöld. However, my competence does not extend to all Belgian public archives, you will agree. During a contact in spring 2017, Mr Othman had suggested that Belgium should designate a focal point responsible for the conduct of new research. I have allowed myself to suggest to the Secretary of State for Scientific Policy that this task be entrusted to the archivist general of the Kingdom, who is by virtue of his function the best connoisseur of all Belgian public archives. I am not sure that, so far, this request has been acted upon. In any case, I have not received any confirmation in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u84	Indeed, Minister, the report will be made public in a week's time. However, Le Figaro, on 28 September, was given access to confidential items. If you want, I'll give it to you so you can prepare the answer. The United Nations, in this report, clearly notes a blockage. Certain information, which is unquestionably in the classified archives of some states – Belgium, but also the United States, South Africa and Great Britain – is not made public. Secondly, it is clear that that is why Judge Othman advises the Secretary-General of the United Nations to ask States to explicitly state that they do not have archives. I find this method interesting, because it will oblige you – unfortunately you are the focal point for the UN – to, even if you do not have jurisdiction over all the departments of the Belgian State, say on behalf of all the departments of the Belgian State that Belgium, if it does not give access to the classified archives, does not have one. This could eventually lead you to have to lie, which I do not wish to any politician. I mean, there's something very annoying about this case. He is still the only Secretary-General of the United Nations who died during his term of office, probably as a result of an assassination. Belgium, at that time, precisely at the time of the investigation, decided to extend the retention period for classified archives from thirty to fifty years, at the initiative of the government and in particular its Minister of Justice. At that time, Belgium set a very bad example for all archivists. I share with you the conviction that the archivist in charge of the Kingdom General Archives is able to concentrate information, but this majority, by voting this law to increase the retention time for classified archives, has given a very bad signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u85	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 209, by Mr Dallemagne and Question No 20978 Mr Flahaux's 20983, 20986, 20988 and 20992 are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 21, by Mrs Pas. 20855 by Mrs Pas, 20965 by Mr Van Peteghem and 21214 by Mr Luykx. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Peteghem's 21260 was postponed at his request. Debates of the European Parliament 21106 by Mrs Grovonius is converted into a written question, as is the joint question No 21106 by Mrs Grovonius. 21137 by Mrs Van Hoof and 21193 by Mr Luykx. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Question No 21, by Mrs Van Hoof Mr De Vriendt's 21171 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u86	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, even if it is an oral question, it can be considered to be purely topical. During the debate in plenary on 8 June on the Ecolo-Groen resolution to reconsider foreign policy towards Saudi Arabia, you announced your intention to send a letter to the Ministers-Presidents of the Regions concerning the implementation of the objective of a national embargo on the export of arms and so-called dual-use goods. On the occasion of an exchange which we had in the Committee on External Relations on 3 October, you read to me the reply given by the Brussels Minister responsible for the matter and the reply of the former Walloon Minister-President. The Flemish Minister-President did not reply to you on that date and you announced that you had sent the current Walloon Minister-President a new letter to inquire about the possible strategic change on this issue, a change that, like you, I very much hope. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, have the ministers-presidents Bourgeois and Borsus answered you? If so, what was their answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u87	Mr Hellings, I should like to inform you that on 11 October last we received a reply from Mr Bourgeois. The content of his answer is as follows. "With regard to your specific request for a mandate for the federal government in response to the request No. 10 of the resolution in the Chamber of Representatives reviewing Belgium's foreign policy towards the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, I welcome this request for the entry, exit and transit of goods listed on the EU Common Military List. However, as regards the goods and technologies referred to in the lists referred to in Articles 6 and 12 of the Council Common Position 2008/944/CFSP of 8 December 2008, this provision requires further differentiation and I cannot at this time respond to your request. In this respect, in view of the conditions imposed by the resolution on the basis of an agreement between the regions, further consultation between the Länder in relation to this latter element is under consideration. I will take the necessary steps to this end." This is the response of Mr Bourgeois, Minister-President of the Flemish Government. We have not yet received a response from the new Walloon Minister-President, Mr Borsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u88	Mr President, Mr Minister, the Flemish Minister-President's reply is particularly appealing, since, despite the resolutions which are regularly adopted in the Flemish Parliament, when it comes to pointing the finger at Wallonia for positions which are particularly untenable, whether they are held by the former Minister-President, Mr Magnette, about the European embargo or the current one, Mr Borsus, depending on the decisions taken in recent days, we see here the Minister-President Bourgeois defending the export of dual-use products. We therefore find a total hypocrisy in the head of the two main regions of this country, Wallonia and Flanders, where each defends its pre-square then we had provided interesting work, the majority and opposition confused on this issue and which we adopted, just four months ago, a resolution which you supported under circumstances which, out of charity, I will avoid recalling. Here we see a real blockage which, for once, is not Walloon. I will rest the question to you shortly in order to know what Minister-President Borsus will have answered. I think I can only regret the answer he is going to give you, given the latest developments in the case we learned this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u89	Mr Devin has informed us that he is on his way. I give the floor to Mr van Peteghem to put his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u90	Mr President, Minister, in 2015, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action was concluded, an historic nuclear deal between Iran and, on the one hand, the United States, Russia, China, the United Kingdom, France, Germany and the EU. The agreement meant that Iran would not develop nuclear weapons, allow control by the International Atomic Energy Agency and that sanctions against the country would be lifted. On 13 October, US President Trump declared that Iran is violating the nuclear agreement and advocated the unilateral addition of additional conditions to the agreement. The United Kingdom, France and Germany have already failed to be satisfied with the American démarche. They'll stick to the current chord. Mr Minister, can you give us an update on the outcome of the agreement? How do you estimate President Trump's statement? What steps will the U.S. government take now? Will you argue in the European Union that the US authorities should address this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u91	Mr President, Mr Van Peteghem, the nuclear agreement with Iran was concluded in 2015 and entered into force in January 2016. The agreement makes the Iranian nuclear programme subject to a number of important restrictions to ensure its peaceful nature. The International Atomic Energy Agency monitors the implementation of the agreement and has already confirmed eight times that Iran is fulfilling all its obligations. Belgium therefore wishes to continue this agreement, which makes an important contribution to the maintenance of the international non-proliferation regime. President Trump's decision not to renew the agreement must be seen in the context of the internal American political process. I note that on 13 October, President Trump also launched a new global strategy on Iran, focusing on Iran's role in the region and on its ballistic missile programme. Although these issues deserve attention, I believe they should be dealt with outside the context of the nuclear deal in the appropriate fora. I reiterated this position at the last meeting with my fellow Foreign Ministers in Luxembourg. It was clear that we should discuss this, but not in the context of our nuclear deal. At present, the ball lies with Congress to answer the President's comments and his new strategy. We are in favour of the US remaining within the nuclear agreement. We will encourage our American interlocutors to think carefully about the wider implications before taking steps. The EU has been in contact with the US Government for some time to reflect our vision. In particular, the High Representative and the European co-signators of the nuclear agreement were active in this area. I think this has helped to prevent a more radical positioning of the US. This effort must now be continued. At the meeting of the Foreign Ministers on 16 October there was unanimity on this matter. I have also said that proper implementation of such an agreement is necessary, in the absence of which agreements with other partners will be difficult. We need to implement this international agreement correctly before we ever try to conclude other agreements with other countries. I think it is very important to say that again to our American colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. This is the answer I expected to answer the questions I had asked. It is indeed important to make it clear to the Americans that there are more implications to add unilateral elements and to withdraw from this agreement. It is good that you yourself continue to argue at European level, but also that the US authorities continue to argue at European level in favour of maintaining the deal and to warn them of this kind of danger.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u93	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Flahaux's 21312, 21314, 21316, 21320, 21321 and 21322 are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 21368 was postponed to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u94	Minister, on 12 October last, the Palestinian Authority and Hamas reached an agreement, led by Egypt, to promote political reconciliation in the Gaza Strip. The Palestinian Authority and Hamas have been in conflict since 2007, when Hamas de facto took control of the Gaza Strip. Since then, the humanitarian situation in Gaza has deteriorated considerably, partly due to blockades by Egypt and Israel. Furthermore, since April, the Palestinian Authority has imposed sanctions to put more pressure on Hamas. For example, the power supply was reduced, making electricity available only a few hours a day. The supply of medicines was stopped and the wages of civil servants were greatly reduced. The agreement would involve the transfer of the administrative control of Gaza from 1 December to a unitary government led by the Palestinian Authority. The Palestinian Authority's forces would take over control at the Rafah border point between Gaza and Egypt. Furthermore, the sanctions imposed by the Palestinian Authority on the Gaza Strip would be lifted. However, points such as the disarmament of the armed wing of Hamas have not yet been discussed. Discussions for the further development of the agreement will take place on 21 November. My questions are as follows. Can you explain this agreement more clearly, Minister? What is the position of our country and the European Union on this agreement? In recent years, such agreements have never lasted for long. How do you estimate the odds this time? What elements are essential for a good outcome? Finally, how do you estimate the impact of the agreement on the peace process between Israel and Palestine?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u95	Mr van Peteghem, the agreement signed on 12 October by the representatives of Hamas and the Palestinian Authority is a step in the right direction. Of course, there will have to be more movement in the near future, so that the process will ultimately bear fruit. I also refer to Mrs Federica Mogherini's statement of 13 October, which also reflects the Belgian position. The brief agreement was reached on the occasion of the Palestinian Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah's visit to Gaza on 2 October and of a series of concessions by Hamas, such as the revision of the fundamental charter of the movement or the dissolution of the governing committee set up in Gaza to compete with the Palestinian Authority. At the moment, we have very little concrete evidence at our disposal. It is impossible to make fundamental statements about a possible lasting and sincere rapprochement between the two parties. Essential questions such as the disarmament of Hamas and the reform of the official institutions in Gaza have not yet been raised and therefore remain unresolved. Belgium, like the EU, is closely following the course of the forthcoming negotiations. We expect the Palestinian Authority to return to Gaza in full, including a monitoring of the security situation. We hope that the return will also improve the living conditions of the local population, which are currently very difficult. The levers to change this are not in the hands of the international community, but in the hands of local actors. I would also like to acknowledge Egypt's efforts, which have succeeded in bringing those involved around the negotiating table. Palestinian reconciliation is an essential condition for the resumption of political dialogue with Israel. We are awaiting a possible initiative from President Trump for a possible dialogue between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. That initiative was announced, but so far we have no clarification on it. The European Union may be able to support this dialogue. In general terms, therefore, a step has been taken in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic754x.u96	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 21376 was converted into a written question. Mr Devin is on his way, but I suggest that we do not wait for him. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
