ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u1	Minister, on 26 October we had the opportunity to receive a delegation from several Members from Niger in our Parliament. That delegation spoke about the challenges facing women and education in their country. The dialogue with them was very constructive. Although the subject was difficult, there was a clearly optimistic atmosphere, because parliamentarians from both of our countries consider the issue so important. During that meeting, the question arose as to how this constructive dialogue could be further exploited. This seemed to be the condition on both sides to address the challenges discussed. One of the challenges that has been raised is that of child marriages. Niger has one of the highest rates in the world of both child marriages and children per woman and also very low grades of school girls. In 2015, we discussed and adopted in our committee a resolution on child marriages, which specifically mentioned the situation and challenges in Niger. This has also been communicated to the Members of the European Parliament from Niger, who responded with satisfaction. Is it possible, Minister, to set up a cooperation programme between the staff of our two parliaments in order to continue the constructive dialogue that has taken place? The adopted resolution of 2015 on child marriages called for the issue of child marriages to be included in our bilateral talks with partner countries and our consultations with African regional organisations. This would also be a cross-cutting focus in our development cooperation, on which knowledge would be enhanced. Could you give me an overview of what you have achieved on these points and the members of the committee who were present at the sitting and who are certainly interested?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u2	At the moment, I have no knowledge of a specific question of cooperation between the parliaments of our country and one of our partner countries in governmental cooperation. Most of our bilateral programmes do have a capacity-enhancing intervention, to which Parliamentary officials could also call, if partner countries so wish. So far this has not happened. The theme of teenage and child marriages is a priority for Belgian cooperation. More generally, the theme of sexual and reproductive rights is integrated into the cooperation programme "society" in line with the She Decides initiative of Belgian development policy. The cooperation programmes with Burkina Faso, Guinea, Mali, Benin and Senegal pay particular attention to the problem. For example, the 2017-2020 Government Cooperation Programme with Niger provides funding for the fight against premature pregnancies. This concerns the ILLIMIN project, worth EUR 2 million, a project of delegated cooperation with UNFPA.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I hope that in a few years' time we will be able to see the result of our efforts in those countries. The representatives of Niger themselves explicitly asked for cooperation programmes to be set up, particularly with regard to their administration. It is possible that another official question will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u4	Minister, a study has been published in the renowned magazine Nature which states that investing in nature conservation has been above expectations in recent years. According to the researchers, this is the first concrete evidence that investment in nature conservation is actually achieving results. It was noted that investing in nature protection in poorer countries has the most impact, not only because many poorer countries have more nature, but also because there the needs and challenges are greatest. In many African countries, park rangers have a chronic shortage of resources, even decent shoes and uniforms, preventing them from doing their job properly. They are also in danger of life: poachers or criminals who do illegal logging or mining in protected natural areas have lost hundreds of rangers in recent years. A large part of those deaths fell in Africa, many of them in the DRC. It's about more than protecting a number of iconic animals, such as lions, okapi... or elephants. It is about protecting ecosystems on which the prosperity of entire rural communities is built. Now that new UN research has shown that our climate efforts are insufficient, protecting nature has become even more important, not only for local communities in the South that survive because of their environment, but for all people. I have a number of questions here, Minister. How many BTC and BIO programmes are aimed at protecting nature or sustainable use of natural resources? Are there any plans for such programmes in the new cooperation programmes that will be agreed in the coming years? In recent years there have been deaths among park rangers in the Congo and several other Belgian partner countries. In what way will Belgium promote better protection for these men and women?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u5	Madam President, as far as governmental cooperation is concerned, the technical and financial dossiers of the projects carried out by the BTC contain an analysis of the impact of intervention on the environment, and where appropriate mitigation measures are proposed. The analysis of proposals co-financed by the BIO also analyses the impact on the environment. In the area of nature protection in the DRC, delegated cooperation shall finance interventions carried out by the European Commission. Training is provided to the park rangers of the Virungapark as part of the VLECHT project. For example, the park rangers of the Virungapark are formed in the field of deontology and the conduct of police operations against poachers. Due to the unsafe condition in the vicinity of the park, these poachers are often equipped with weapons of war, which does not facilitate the task of the guards. In addition, a project for the creation of a hydroelectric power plant in the Virungapark is financed. The Virunga park has huge amounts of water resources and rivers that can be used to generate energy. The supply of electricity will not only reduce the pressure on tree cutting, but will also have a positive impact on the creation of economic activities which can significantly increase the income and living standards of the local population.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u6	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the information you have provided. Let me look at the answer again and see what impact this has.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u7	Madam President, Minister, the conflict in Yemen has been under the shadow of the wars in Syria and Iraq for years, but the situation is at least as dramatic. Not only do people die from war violence, but they die more and more from disease. According to the WHO, 500 000 people were infected with cholera a few weeks ago. The WHO reports that it has only a fraction of the resources to care for everyone affected by cholera, let alone by other diseases that plague the country. The main reason for this is that it does not yet receive half of the budget needed to provide sufficient support. Minister, it is a phenomenon that keeps popping up: large organisations such as the WHO and UNHCR cannot, with the greatest difficulty, collect half the necessary resources. Belgium has always consistently supported humanitarian crises and you have not broken this tradition. You helped organize the She Decides initiative and you significantly increased the Belgian contribution to 12-12. These were initiatives on your part which my group supported, but it is not enough to remedy the global deficits and to deal with the reluctance of other prosperous countries. Can you explain why several European Member States are so reluctant to contribute more to humanitarian projects which, however, receive EU approval and support? What do you think is needed to give the EU a greater and, above all, more united role in the humanitarian field? How do you see your own role as Minister for Development Cooperation of Belgium to convince other EU Member States to make a greater contribution to the humanitarian needs of the world?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u8	Yemen is high on the agenda of the European Union and its Member States. The EU is funding €51.7 million in humanitarian aid to Yemen this year. In the Council conclusions of April 2017, the European Council expressed its concern about the humanitarian situation, condemned violence, called for coordinated humanitarian aid and finally encouraged all countries to contribute and alleviate humanitarian needs. Belgium spent EUR 10.8 million in humanitarian aid to Yemen in 2017. Humanitarian aid is a shared competence of the European Union and the Member States. Each Member State may have its own humanitarian policy. In addition, the European Union is also competent to take action itself and to implement a common humanitarian policy. In 2016, the European Union released nearly EUR 1.5 billion for humanitarian aid. The European Union is an important humanitarian donor. The European Union and its Member States took over 800 interventions, demonstrating the concrete commitment to humanitarian aid. As Minister for Development Cooperation, I am committed to flexible, reliable and efficient humanitarian aid based on needs. Belgium chooses to focus within the humanitarian system on a number of geographical and thematic priorities, mainly inspired by the experience we have built up in certain countries and on certain themes. For example, in June I was the only European minister present at the solidarity conference in Kampala for Uganda and South Sudan. With this, I emphasised Belgium's leading role in humanitarian aid in the Great Lakes region. Recently, I took various initiatives to draw more attention to the humanitarian situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo, both at international and European level, including during the UN Ministerial Week in New York, the UNHCR executive committee and the Council of the European Union Humanitarian Aid and Food Aid Working Group. Finally, as Minister for Development Cooperation, I take the lead in new partnerships with the private sector and in investments in humanitarian innovations. Given the increasing humanitarian needs, I see it as necessary for a donor like Belgium to encourage an innovative culture within humanitarian organisations and support projects that have a real innovative potential for the humanitarian sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Belgium has always been one of the pillars of the European story and a pioneer in humanitarian aid. I hope that the government continues this line and extends it to other policy areas. Nevertheless, I would ask you to take the lead and serve as an example at European level, so that other European countries also contribute more in the field of humanitarian aid. I believe, moreover, that this is for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u10	Minister, you gave your speech in New York on 17 July at the High-Level Political Forum on the SDGs. Most of your stickhorses were covered there, in particular the use of development money to activate private sector money for development. In addition, you also mentioned your campaign She Decides and the need to invest in the poorest and least stable countries. So these are not the points I want to discuss here in committee; we have already done so in detail here. They will certainly continue to be adequately addressed in the future. What I found much more interesting was the three lessons you gave to those present and, in particular, the third lesson: the need to reform the UN. This is a sensitive issue that has been addressed several times over the last decades. Since you did not clarify what kind of reform you had in mind, it seems appropriate to me to ask you that question. My questions are as follows. How do you see this UN reform under the 2030 Agenda? Is this merely a change in certain procedures and administration, or is it a more complete reform of the UN? Have you discussed this issue with other ministers present or representatives of the United Nations? If so, what were their reactions? Is this a topic that the government will include in its foreign policy? Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u11	The Belgian call for reform of the UN is part of a broader process that has been going on for several years. It has actually already started when people knew that the 2030 Agenda was coming. A four-year reform resolution adopted at the end of 2016 was used to launch a deeper reform and to better align the UN as a development system with this new Agenda. Following this, UN Secretary General Guterres issued a first document in June this year. A more comprehensive report is expected by the end of this year. This is a whole series of profound changes. I take a selection of the objectives that our country supports: firstly, to improve cooperation between all UN agencies; secondly, to improve coordination between UN entities in the field; thirdly, to avoid unnecessary competition between UN agencies; fourthly, to ensure more predictable and less well-appointed funding; and fifthly, to increase transparency. This could lead to a major re-evaluation of the UN's development policy tasks. In addition, the UN peace and security missions and the management of the UN, known for its heavy bureaucratic procedures, will come. Belgium is in favour of an ambitious reform exercise at a time when a new international agenda, a new Secretary-General and a four-year UN evaluation exercise are intersecting. Some say this is an opportunity that only occurs once in a generation, and I am inclined to believe it. During my stay in New York in July, I discussed these reform plans with the new head of the UNDP, Achim Steiner. As this reform exercise has been going on for several years, I also had the opportunity to discuss this with UN Secretary-General Guterres and his deputy, Mrs Amina Mohammed, in the spring of Brussels. These reforms are also discussed at EU level. Even the Trump administration has left its eye on it in a more constructive sense. With regard to development policy in this reform, our country is participating in a Western donor group, the Utstein group, which has been working for years on reforms in the multilateral system. In addition, our country is also taking part in the UN Reform Initiative launched by the United Kingdom, including the intention to link the size of future donor support to the UN system directly to the success of in-depth reforms that will better enable the UN to deliver the Agenda 2020-2030 on the ground. This will undoubtedly lead to a negotiation process in New York in February 2018 on the basis of the Secretary-General's reports. Our government is in favour of bringing humanitarian, developmental and peace and security activities closer together within the UN in order to enhance the UN's capacity to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say there would be a report by the end of this year. It would be interesting to have access to this and to discuss it with you in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u13	Then I would ask Mrs Pehlivan to replace me as chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u14	Minister, as chairman but also a member of the committee, I would like to ask my penultimate question. Hopefully there will be another colleague so that we can continue the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u15	Mr Minister, the investigation report of the India Committee of the Netherlands (ICN) reveals worrying findings on working conditions in India's granite quarry. It concerns lack of security, debt slavery, child labour and other abuses and violations of international and Indian labour legislation. Granite from these grooves is mainly used for export and is bought by several European companies. There are also two Belgian companies. Beltrami buys granite from quarry through suppliers where debt slavery and lack of security were found. Hullebush would buy granite through suppliers from quarry where debt slavery and child labour were established and where safety for workers is also minimal. In a press release, both companies have partly shifted responsibility. Mr Minister, according to my group and according to the population, that is not the correct way to respond to the findings of the report for these two companies. We can do more than just accept that there are things that cannot be changed, as Hullebush's manager suggests. The report also states that the situation has improved compared to the past and that it is now a matter of perseverance. The report therefore contains several recommendations to companies and governments in India and in Europe to finally put an end to these shameful practices. Given the important role you have repeatedly stressed for the private sector in achieving the SDGs, I would like to ask the following questions. Do you agree with the ICN recommendation that European companies should be required to be more transparent about their production processes and actively verify the origin of their goods? Will you continue to discuss this issue with your colleague Kris Peeters? This issue is also partly within his competence. In the context of the Belgian SDG charter, will you appeal to these two companies to engage actively in the 2030 agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u16	First of all, I would like to say that a few months ago India ratified conventions 138 and 182 on child labour and that there is a political will to apply these conventions effectively. A law approach is the basis of my policy. This applies both politically and in concrete actions. I participated in the launch of the alliance 8.7, which aims to increase cooperation between all the actors involved, in order to eradicate modern slavery, forced labour and the worst forms of child labour by 2030. It is indeed appropriate that European companies should be more transparent. I have long defended the principle of corporate responsibility. My administration works closely with the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation for all decent work. The SDG charter explicitly mentions the worthy work. The charter is open to all Belgian companies. I would very much appreciate a commitment from these companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that we will be able to include what you have said further in the charters and cooperation agreements. It is a good thing that India has ratified the Convention, but it requires far more than just ratification. It also requires a certain commitment from the countries. I believe that we can help from Europe and Belgium, especially with regard to our own businesses, to look even more closely at the origin of certain products, whether they are granite or clean clothes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u18	Mr Minister, my question has been combined with a question from Mrs Bellens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u19	I do not know whether Mrs Bellens has any difficulty in answering her question when she is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u20	So you are also answering Mrs Bellens' question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u21	Yes, indeed, I answer both questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u22	In that case, I will ask my question and give the answer to Mrs Bellens. At the beginning of this legislature, Minister, you concluded a framework agreement with the NGOs and the institutional actors involved in development cooperation. This agreement included many points, including a complete reform of the sector, which would mean a general administrative simplification for NGOs and institutional actors. At the same time, it includes a commitment on the funds available for the coming years, which makes it predictable. Minister, we will soon be discussing the budget and therefore your budget and how the funds will be spent. Last year, a large amount of money was underused. At that time, you assured us that it was not a structural policy choice, but it was largely the result of working in fragile states and the associated risks. Suddenly, the NGOs and institutional actors had to make additional savings last year, despite the agreement that no savings would be made. Minister, the actors in non-governmental cooperation have faithfully implemented the agreement, even though the legislation has not yet been finalised. Will you, as Minister, also keep your share of the bargains? Can you explain more about underutilisation of resources? Will this underutilisation remain cyclical or will it be a structural intervention? Will you maintain your budget so that the actors can properly implement their planned programmes? As far as administrative simplification is concerned, a number of agreements under the framework agreement are already in force. To what extent can you guarantee that new measures will not interfere with the difficult process? How will you ensure that the much needed rest in the sector can return?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u23	Mrs Pehlivan, I will answer both questions. The first part of the answer is rather focused on Mrs Bellens' question and the second part more on your question, but both questions were merged. The Act of 19 March 2013 on Belgian Development Cooperation provides for a maximum of one federation per language regime for institutional actors. The law also provides for the possibility that no federation will be established, but that a certain institutional actor will receive additional recognition as a federation. The FVOB has applied for additional recognition as a federation of institutional actors. The FVOB received that recognition in September 2016 for a period of ten years. The FVOB is the legal person who submits the grant application and who receives and manages the grants from DGD after approval and reports them to DGD. The VVOB is also the formal contact point in terms of registered office and contact address. The VVOB then established within its organisation a de facto association called Fiabel. Fiabel has no legal personality. It is a de facto association that defends the interests of nine institutional actors. This is the route taken by the nine institutional actors, both Dutch and French. As the FVOB's application for recognition was fully in conformity with the law, I granted that recognition. The following nine organisations are affiliated to the VVOB as federation of institutional actors: the two domes of the Flemish and French universities, respectively VLIR and ARES, the three domes of the cities and municipalities of Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, respectively VVSG, VVGB and UVCW, the Institute of Tropical Medicine, Africalia, the VVOB and APEF. The commitments entered into with the sector during the discussions on the Framework Agreement were implemented in 2016 and 2017: adoption of the regulatory texts containing the main principles of the Framework Agreement, making available a budget allowing the implementation of the five-year plans, drawing up directives allowing harmonisation of the interpretation of the rules and simplifying the follow-up and control mechanisms in relation to the programmes and grants granted. Budget cuts are always the result of budgetary constraints agreed in the government and which I must take into account. I will discuss the restrictions with the actors concerned in all openness. For example, at the beginning of 2017, I asked the non-governmental actors for an effort of EUR 17 million per year for the duration of the programmes. That formula had the advantage of clarity and predictability. However, the federations and domes of non-governmental cooperation have declared themselves in favour of a saving of EUR 17 million in 2017 with the possibility of making the amount of the reduction dependent on the really available budgets in the following years. Thus, they hoped to save less from 2018. The disadvantage of this is that organisations face relative uncertainty every year as regards, in proportion, a minimum proportion of their annual budget. It is therefore the organisations themselves that have opted for this situation. In order to promote a common administrative and federation approach and to achieve a concreteisation of administrative simplification, regular meetings were held in the course of 2017. These meetings ended in technical notes which were submitted to me and which I approved, and which are therefore guidelines for my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u24	Moreover, from 2017 onwards, I have set up a consultative body in which the administration and representatives of the sector meet around challenges of non-governmental cooperation or the problems they face. The opinions of that body are being submitted to me, which allows me to preserve the spirit and direction of the reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The answer you have given to various questions relates to both your policy letter and your budget. We will look into that and take it to heart when discussing your policy letter and the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u26	Minister, one of the priorities of your development cooperation policy is the rights approach in which you emphasise human rights in cooperation with our partner countries. The government agreement also stresses respect for human rights as an important part of international cooperation policy. However, there are a number of partner countries where these rights and in particular the rights of LGBTQI are not respected. Both governmental and non-governmental actors indicate that this is the case in Uganda where LGBTQIs are oppressed and they even risk their lives. The actors do not really work on LGBTQI rights because they do not want to brusque the Ugandan government or even because there is no support for the Ugandan people for holebi rights. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Why not focus on LGBTQI rights in Uganda? How can this be consistent with the transversal objective of human rights set out in the coalition agreement and in your policy? In which sectors are there concrete work in Uganda and how are LGBTQI rights introduced into operation? How will the agreement on the pursuit of gender equality as set out in the ISP 2012-2016 be implemented? What is the place of gender equality and, more specifically, the rights of Holebies in it? When's the next ISP due? What evidence is there that aid to LGBTQI duties negatively affects the operation in the country? Are there other European countries that do support this? Are there any partner countries outside Uganda where Belgian development cooperation gives LGBTQI rights less priority to these rights? Are the conditions set out in the cooperation agreements with our partner countries which they must meet in order to continue to benefit from Belgian aid? Does respect for LGBTQI rights belong to these conditions and why?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u27	Uganda is a very religious, traditional and as such conservative society. Moreover, the country is increasingly influenced by the Born Again Christian movement. A large part of the population is negative towards homosexuality. There is therefore a considerable gap between, on the one hand, Ugandan standards and values and, on the other hand, the vision of a human rights approach. On human rights, including LGBTQI rights, Belgium firmly engages in political dialogue with the Ugandan government, in particular with the ministries directly involved in the health and education sector. This is done in conjunction with similar donors, multilateral institutions and NGOs. Belgium is also part of the local human rights donor group where the LGBTQI issue is closely monitored. The message from all EU Member States is the same, in particular respect for the rights of LGBTQIs. During my visit to Uganda at the end of June, I met several representatives of the LGBTQI community during the network receptions, including Frank Mugisha of Sexual Minorities Uganda, and listened to their concerns. Belgian bilateral development cooperation with Uganda is active in the health and education sectors. In the health sector, last year, and in the education sector, this year, Belgium has taken on the role of leading donor responsible for preparing the policy dialogue with Ugandan policy makers and donor coordination. In this context, Belgium, together with similar donors, is advocating the principle of non-discrimination of population groups in their right of access to education and health care. The Belgian diplomatic representation and the BTC closely monitor the application of the principles of non-discrimination, in both sectors of health and education, and in general. In the Belgian cooperation projects, the gender dimension and the empowerment of women are a transversal story. In the health sector, gender is related to women's access to health services, and all aspects related to sexual and reproductive health and rights, including HIV and AIDS. In the education sector, gender is strongly linked to the creation of a safe learning environment for girls and the prevention of violence against women and girls. It is not the case that Belgian development cooperation makes LGBQTI rights less priority in order not to brusque the government. The policy paper on gender in Belgian development cooperation specifically highlights this issue. A legal approach to development cooperation implies that all rights are respected for all. The same applies to LGBQTIs. Homonegativity, gay and transphobia, discrimination and stigmatisation and violence on holebi's and stringers are worldwide. More than 75 countries worldwide criminalize voluntary sexual acts between adults of the same sex. In many countries, there is progress in the rights of holes, but in other countries, including many of the partner countries of Belgian development cooperation, holes and strings are either tolerated or discriminated against. The Ugandan cooperation programme 2012-2016 provided for an incitative disc of 10 million euros, with human rights aspects as one of the prerequisites. I decided not to grant this incitative disc, after an analysis that showed that there was insufficient progress in the field of human rights. In addition, I refused to participate in the Democratic Governance Facility in Uganda, an instrument of eight European donors to defend the democratisation process in Uganda and to protect human rights. My refusal was based on the fact that the initiative did not mention the situation of the LGBQTIs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u28	Thank you for your reply, Minister. The human rights approach is extremely important to us too. She is also ambitious, in the sense that she is absolute. One cannot put it into perspective. Either we respect human rights or we do not respect them. There's nothing in between. It therefore struck me that both the governmental and non-governmental sectors chose not to overdo the tribulation of the LGBQTIs in order not to harm the rest of the operation. Hence my call not to give in to this matter in thumbs-up, the respect for human rights, including the free experience of one's sexuality, to continue to defend and place them at the forefront, even though this is not always easy, and to draw conclusions if it does not succeed. We need to be very clear on this for partner countries. It may be put in cooperation agreements as a condition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u29	Madam President, Minister, once again, the Israeli army destroyed, at the end of August, a project financed by Belgium. This time it is a school in Jubbet Al Dib, near Bethlehem. It received financial support from international donors, notably Belgians. Its destruction follows the confiscation on 9 August of solar panels in Area C under Israeli control for the security and administration of the occupied Palestinian territories in the village of Abu Nwar. These solar panels, financed by the Belgian Cooperation, fed the premises and kindergarten of another school. In a press release, you and your Foreign Affairs colleague Didier Reynders condemned this act and specified: "An explanation will be requested from the Israeli government and compensation will also be requested." Condemning, Mr. Reynders had already done so when the Israeli army destroyed the electricity grid in the Palestinian village of Khirbet al-Tawil. This project, financed by Belgium to the tune of 55 000 euros, had been carried out in consultation with the Israeli authorities, and during the destruction of the Zaatara playground in 2016. Minister, do you intend to ask – on a multi- or bilateral level – for financial compensation from the State of Israel in order to repay the budget of the Cooperation which has been invested in this school? What is the nature of the explanations you asked for? What impact will this new destruction have on our participation in Europe-funded projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u30	Mrs Grovonius, on 29 August last, our ambassador in Tel Aviv undertook a formal step to send a message of condemnation to the Israeli Foreign Minister concerning the confiscation of solar panels in Abu Nwar and the destruction of a school in Jubbet Al Dib. The total cost of confiscated and destroyed equipment is $37,179. It has been invested in this infrastructure by the West Bank Protection Consortium, to which Belgium contributes through its humanitarian budget. Details of funding by individual donors are not relevant. They act in solidarity. During this demarche, our ambassador was accompanied by his European colleagues representing the majority of donors in the West Bank Protection Consortium. In particular, Denmark, France, Ireland, Luxembourg and Sweden support our démarche, as does the European delegation on the ground. In addition to Belgium, the school was financed by several European countries which are also donors of the consortium. In the same démarche, the Israeli government was asked to return the confiscated solar panels and rebuild the destroyed school. In the absence of a response from the Israeli authorities, it was made clear that a financial compensation would be requested from Israel. In addition to condemning this action against international law, the document contained the following questions. Firstly, the question to Israel for explanation of the reasons and the chosen time of implementation, bearing in mind that this has the direct effect that dozens of children do not have access to education on the evening before the beginning of the school year. Secondly, the demand for Israel to stop the destruction of humanitarian projects in zone C and its obligation as occupying power to comply fully with international law, and more precisely as described in the Fourth Geneva Convention on the protection of civilians in wartime. The Convention prohibits the destruction and seizure of mobile and immobile goods, except in the case of justified military need. Since the Israeli Government has not yet given a positive response to our first step, in recent weeks we have tried to mobilise as many partners as possible for a joint European approach to financial compensation. These efforts to convince European partners to join in our efforts to restrict or compensate have borne fruit. In the following days, a new approach will take place in a group of several Member States of the European Union. Of course, we must now wait for the Israeli authorities to react to this new démarche before looking at what follow-up will have to be given. It goes without saying that there is absolutely no intention of sending the Israeli ambassador back to Belgium. We believe in the positive value of dialogue, especially with countries with which we have a good and long relationship, despite a number of differences of opinion. These differences of opinion can be discussed through diplomatic relations and a joint solution can be found to end them. That said, investment in zone C, the protection of the rights of the vulnerable Palestinian population and vigilance to respect international humanitarian law in that region remain priorities for Belgium, which does not envisage ending the financing of such humanitarian interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u31	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. Even when you speak French, it's a little quick. I'm not sure I understood very well. As I understand it, you have said that the process of forming a group at European level to jointly seek compensation from Israel has been successful. Does that mean that this group has already been formed and that a request has been made to Israel by this group of European countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u32	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u33	All right. That's a very good thing. If I understand correctly, Israel has not yet responded officially. I will come back to you later to find out what Israeli responses have been to this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u34	Minister, my question is a little old and perhaps not up to date. Since June, monsoon floods have already claimed the lives of nearly 1,500 people in southern Asia. In India alone, 1,300 people died in this weather. The northern state of Bihar was hit hardest: 514 inhabitants lost their lives there. In Nepal and Bangladesh, the authorities and the Red Cross reported 140 victims. Most died in the second week of August. One third of the surface area of these two countries was still under water at the time of writing. If precipitation has calmed down, health organizations fear the outbreak of several epidemics. In all, in the three countries mentioned, 41 million people were affected by the floods. Mr Minister, in view of this situation, does Belgium intend to release a budget as part of its humanitarian aid to help the people of this flooded region? Have other mechanisms at your disposal been used to assist them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u35	The humanitarian service has become aware of the humanitarian needs identified in India and Bangladesh following the monsoon floods and will monitor their evolution in the coming weeks. Direct humanitarian funding for these countries is, however, unlikely at this stage, as the humanitarian budget for 2017 is almost entirely allocated. Other mechanisms are used, however, since 50 per cent of Belgian humanitarian funding is allocated unallocated to humanitarian partner organisations, allowing them to respond quickly to sudden crises such as this one. Belgium therefore indirectly supports the humanitarian response in India and Bangladesh. Belgium is thus contributing to various flexible humanitarian funds from OCHA, WFP and FAO, which can allocate funding for sudden or underfunded crises. In addition, Belgium contributes to the general budgets of our international humanitarian partner organizations, namely OCHA, ICRC, UNRWA and UNHCR. This year's humanitarian budget is at a high level never reached, but, unfortunately, the needs are very high.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u37	Madam President, Minister, in early September, after ravaging several islands in the West Indies, Irma struck a rosary of highly touristic islands in Florida and climbed the west coast of the U.S. state. Belgium has announced that it will release EUR 1 million for the reconstruction of the most affected islands. Minister, what envelope are you going to use to release this million euros? What are the local and/or international structures with which you will work to rebuild the islands? What are the means used?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u38	Mrs Grovonius, this is the humanitarian aid budget for 2018. It is clear that the hurricane left behind very serious damage on several islands, which have created urgent and longer-term needs such as reconstruction needs. Therefore, I have decided to release one million euros for the reconstruction of the most heavily affected islands. Planned funding will not be available until 2018. The partners have therefore not yet been identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u39	Minister, the delay you have just mentioned surprises me somewhat. But I imagine this is due to budgetary reasons. I will come back to the matter later for further information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u40	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the additional 6 million aid Belgium has released to respond to the alarming humanitarian crisis in the DRC. It will, in principle, be used in particular for the benefit of internally displaced persons who have fled the violence in the Kasai region. We can only rejoice. According to my information, this amount will be distributed among several humanitarian organizations active on the ground in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Minister, how do you intend to monitor Belgium's assistance to ensure that it achieves its intended objectives? In the margins of the meetings scheduled for the United Nations General Assembly, you met with the United Nations Special Envoy for the Great Lakes Region and the United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator. Can you give us a brief account of the content of this interview? Did you mention the situation in Kasai province?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u41	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to apologize first of all for my delay, but I had to ask questions in the Justice Committee and, at the same time, in the context of Minister Bellot's policy brief. We should have the gift of ubiquity here! Mr Minister, you announced in New York, during a meeting with the UN Special Commissioner for the Great Lakes Region, Saïd Djinnit, and humanitarian coordinator Marc Lowcock, that Belgium intended to mobilise €6 million in additional humanitarian aid to deal with the alarming humanitarian situation in the DRC, as my distinguished colleague, Mr Crusnière, said. You announced that the internal conflict in Kasai and other areas in the DRC led to massive population displacements, that food security was being affected, and that the spread of diseases, such as cholera, was being promoted. You also explained that this year, as many as 8 million Congolese needed humanitarian assistance, i.e. 10 per cent of the population, and that almost 4 million people had been displaced. The internal conflict that broke out last year in Kasai province has since extended to large areas in the DRC. The number of internally displaced persons increased to a record 3.8 million last year. In the Greater Kasai region, nearly 1.4 million people have been displaced. More than one million have been added since the beginning of 2017, including 800,000 minors. The Grand Kasai is now witnessing the fastest movement of people in the world. While humanitarian organizations are aware of the need to intensify their efforts, international attention and funding are lacking. The United Nations estimates humanitarian needs at over US$800 million, of which only one quarter is covered to date. Minister, what has been the response of the international community to your call to release more humanitarian funds, too? What is Belgium's commitment this year for humanitarian aid to the Congolese population? What humanitarian organisations benefit from the amounts paid by Belgium to support these populations? I would like to return to the colloquium organized at the initiative of Mr Crusnière on the problem of the Congo; it has been said that it is time to change aid towards humanitarian aid because the regime tends to benefit from it. The old and new crises are causing incalculable suffering among millions of civilians in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Since the conflict broke out in August 2016 in the previously peaceful Kasai region, the number of internally displaced persons has been high. I have already quoted the figures and I will not go back to them. The European Union has been providing humanitarian assistance to the DRC since 1994. Over the past five years, over EUR 200 million has been allocated to humanitarian aid. In July 2017, an additional €5 million was made available to finance emergency assistance to victims of violence in the conflict-torn Kasai region. Minister, what is the evolution of the ECHO aid budget in 2016-17? What is the outlook for this aid in 2018? Are you sure that these important amounts will actually lead to the recipients, that is to say, the Congolese population, in view of what I mentioned earlier about the use or way of doing the regime? He still considers that what happens to the people almost comes from himself. What is the Belgian position on the granting of these means by the European Union in the DRC? Has Belgium made any alternative proposals to European Union decisions in the context of ECHO aid? I come back from South Africa where I attended a liberal international meeting. I was struck by the number of Congolese in South Africa. All of them asked me the question: what could Europe do? They themselves had been forced to move and leave the Congo to work in South Africa in order to have life prospects, even without necessarily being political, climatic or war refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u42	Dear colleague, I have had various talks about the humanitarian crisis in the DRC in recent weeks. In general, I can note that my interlocutors share our analysis of the humanitarian situation in the country, in particular in that this crisis receives too little attention from the international community and is heavily underfunded. Indeed, only 28% of the humanitarian funding needed by the DRC in 2017 was granted. However, I am not in a position to provide you with details of the additional humanitarian allocations for the DRC from other donor countries. I refer you to the OCHA Financial Tracking Service website. The meeting with the United Nations envoy for the Great Lakes focused specifically on the humanitarian situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. My interlocutors share our analysis of the dire humanitarian situation, regretting also the lack of funding for this crisis. The potential negative impact on the political and security situation was mentioned by Mr Lowcock, UN humanitarian coordinator. I have indeed addressed the specific situation in Kasai and the surrounding provinces and have expressed my fear of a further deterioration of the humanitarian situation. I have particularly stressed the absolute priority of the protection of civilians to the international community and the Congolese authorities. I also called for greater humanitarian funding to resolve this crisis. ECHO, the European Union's humanitarian aid service, granted €63 million in 2016 for assistance in the Great Lakes Region. This year, the amount is EUR 37 million for this area. We can observe a decrease in European humanitarian aid in this area, which I regret. I have not yet seen any European funding for next year. The Belgian humanitarian contribution committed in the DRC currently amounts to €9.8 million. However, some additional funding files, such as those announced, are being processed. The total commitments for this year will therefore reach €21.7 million by the end of the year and will be wound up in several tranches. Belgian grants are allocated to NGOs and international organisations such as OXFAM, UNHCR, WFP, FAO, UNICEF and the Humanitarian Fund for the DRC - managed by OCHA. This funding supports food aid, disaster preparedness and protection interventions. All are subject to reporting obligations, both narrative and financial. In order to increase the effectiveness and impact of humanitarian interventions, partners must ensure that this reporting is results-oriented and draws positive and negative lessons identified in the implementation of each response. Administration also requires that any financial project or program be subject to an external evaluation and audit. In addition, our Embassy staff in the DRC regularly inspects the interventions of our humanitarian partners in order to evaluate the results. Finally, through Belgium's participation in the boards of our partner organisations, we often have access to detailed information on the solutions financed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u44	Minister, I hope that we, as parliamentarians, and you as minister, will continue to sound all possible alarm bells, because the situation is extremely urgent. I regret to have to use this phrase, because "emergency" should suffice. Yet, we are really in the "ultra emergency".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u45	Colleagues, for the further conduct of the sitting, will we continue with the following questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u46	Madam President, I have a proposal to make. If it suits my colleague Mrs Grovonius, let us deal with the attached questions and turn my other questions into written questions. Then we just have to deal with the problem of my question with Messrs. Dallemagne and Blanchart. I don't know if we've heard from him? I'd like to postpone it. I get along with both.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u47	Questions Nos. 20774, 21514 and 21516 by Mr. Flahaux are transformed into written questions and questions Nos. 20352 by Mr. Blanchart, 20370 by Mr. Flahaux and 20639 by Mr. Dallemagne are deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u48	Minister, the government has decided to suspend its support for two school projects in the Palestinian territories, because one of the schools financed by Belgium was named after the first suicide bomber woman in Palestine. The suspension of the two school projects amounts to €3.3 million. Last year, the Belgian Development Administration spent €36.6 million on cooperation with the Palestinian territories. Last May, Norway denounced similar facts. Minister, I imagine that as a result of this information, contacts were made with the Palestinian Authority. What was the content of it? What will be the consequence of this suspension on all the Palestinian educational projects financed by Belgium in the territories, even if you have already answered a previous question in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u49	Minister, on 10 October 2017, you announced that Belgium was stopping its policy of aiding schools in Palestine following the change of name of a school built with the help of Belgian means to rename it from the name of a person who committed a deadly terrorist act in Israeli territory in 1978. What was the reaction of the Palestinian authorities to this incident? Could Belgium resume its funding if the school was restored to its original name? What about these projects today? What other projects are under way in Palestine funded by Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u50	I confirm that our Consulate General in Jerusalem has officially contacted the Palestinian Authority through a note verbale to the Minister of Education and Higher Education and the Minister of Finance and Planning to explain that Belgium does not approve of a school being renamed a terrorist and that Belgium is asking the Palestinian Authority to take measures to avoid such incidents in the future. A meeting with the Minister of Education was held. Belgium condemns the glorification of any act of violence between citizens. Belgium does not want to be associated with people who have been involved in an act of violence against civilians. Belgium deplores and condemns all incitement to hatred and violence by both sides of the conflict. Pending a clear response from the Palestinian Authority, I reiterate that I have decided to stop all planned work at the Beit Awwa school and to remove promptly the Belgian Technical Cooperation logo; to suspend the project for the construction of schools 4 in sites for which there are not yet any contractual obligations worth EUR 3.3 million; that there will be no suspension for sites where there are contractual obligations of the CTB or for the renovation of existing schools in East Jerusalem; that the activities of the Joint Financing Arrangement Multi-Leasing Fund will continue with Belgian support. Belgium has been supporting the Joint Financing Agreement for several years by supporting the implementation of the Palestinian strategic plan for the development of education jointly with four other European donors – Germany, Finland, Ireland and Norway. There is a regular and close sectoral dialogue with the Palestinian Ministries of Education and Finance involved in the sector. I instructed the post in Jerusalem to develop a joint written response from basketball funders to the ministry. The aim of this approach is to convince the Palestinian authority to draft and publish a regulation on the designation of local schools. This regulation must reject the glorification of terrorism in all its forms, including the designation of schools, curricula, school-related social media and the behaviour of the teaching team. Currently, the dialogue with the Palestinian Authority is continuing, the temporary suspension will be assessed upon receipt of a formal and written response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u51	I need time to assimilate the answer. Maybe I'll come back to you later. I did not understand some of the elements, particularly the second of the four points you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u52	The second point was "suspend the project to build schools 4 in sites for which there is not yet a contractual obligation, for a value of 3.3 million euros". So we're suspending these kinds of projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u53	Will there be no more funding for schools?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u54	We suspend the financing of their construction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u55	I find this problematic. I hope that we will be able to find a solution quickly. Suspend the construction of schools, in a place where education is sometimes all they have left, may cause problems. I do not want violence to be apologies, but I do not want the population, let alone the children, to suffer from it either. I hope that the dialogue can continue and that a solution can be found. A particular case, a specific error, should not affect the entire programme of support for the construction of schools in Palestine, even if they ask for reimbursement of the aid granted for this one-time project so that the rest of the work continues. Solutions are possible and I hope they can be found quickly. I'll come back to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u56	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. Education is, in my view, important and the construction of schools is a fundamental element. Having said that, I understand and share your position, minister. If Belgium were a developing country with divisions, if a foreign country came to help us build schools, and if an authority decided to give one of these schools the name Abdeslam, that would give rise to understandable reactions. It therefore seems to me quite logical to condition the resumption of the construction of the school in order to avoid this type of major incident, a kind of incident that was already known when the people of Gaza were invited to public executions of opponents. In my view, democracy and freedom are not divided. It is therefore desirable that even countries that are victims of abuses by a neighbouring State should know that democratic values are one and the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u57	Madam President, I would tend to say: to every lord, every honour. It would have been normal for Mrs Grovonius to ask her question in the first place, since she presided over the promotion of fair trade. Minister, on October 4, you launched the 16th Fair Trade Week. The figures show a good increase in the amounts paid by Belgians in fair and above all ethical products over the last few years. Many efforts are being made to increase citizens' awareness of such fair approaches. In addition to coffee, cocoa and other food products, the textile industry is now involved in such activities. I can only congratulate you, knowing how ruthless this economy can be with its workers in countries such as Romania or Bangladesh, as well as with its cotton producers in many developing countries. Belgium is committed to becoming a country of fair trade, in particular through the resolution voted in parliament last July or through the various actions carried out by the local authorities. As a result of the launch of the Sustainable Development Goals Charter, seven hundred companies have committed themselves to it. Minister, what are the main lessons learned for this 16th Fair Trade Week? What were the fair trade awareness activities in the different regions of the country? What are the future challenges for the necessary development of fair trade in our country? The Belgian, even if he spends an average of EUR 14.30 per year on fair goods, remains very timid compared to the British – who spend EUR 27 per year, those who leave the European Union – and in comparison to the Swiss – who spend EUR 65 per year, those who are not yet members of the European Union. What actions could Belgium take, through your voice, with your counterparts in the European Union, to ensure that the 27 Member States adopt a comprehensive plan to promote fair trade?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u58	Madam President, Minister, last July, our House unanimously voted a resolution to promote fair trade and the campaign "Make Belgium the country of fair trade", a campaign initiated by the CTB – which I can still call in this way, since the bill has not yet been voted in plenary session – in collaboration with the main organisations in the sector. Minister, what are your ambitions in this area? What will be the budget for the campaign "Make Belgium the country of fair trade" which will take place from 2018 to 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u59	Mrs Grovonius, Belgium is, along with a few other European countries, one of the countries where the fair trade movement has developed. The Belgian Government has officially recognised and supported fair trade for more than 15 years. The Belgians are increasingly welcoming fair trade. Recently, organizations such as the World Shops have also been offering Belgian fair products. You can also find Fairebel milk on a large surface. The communes of Tournai and Marche became fair trade communes during this edition of the campaign, bringing the number of communes entitled to 214 out of 589. In 2016, each Belgian spent an average of EUR 14.3 on fair products, a good increase compared to EUR 12.7 and EUR 8.7 in 2015 and 2013. Fair Trade Week has brought attention this year to two categories of products that are usually poorly cited and poorly promoted, namely fair clothing and gold. I myself launched Fair Trade Week in a JBC store in Alost to show that major brands can also take an ethical approach. JBC's "I AM" collection is fully traceable up to the manufacturing workshops. One hundred and thirty-seven events were organised: 41 in Flanders, 72 in Wallonia and 24 in Brussels. These events are numerous: fair breakfasts and meals, great positive events, debates, fashion shows, awareness-raising activities in schools, crowdfunding, plays, film festivals on alternative tourism, etc. In the future, some supermarket chains, like some Swiss and English supermarkets, could offer a much wider range of fair products. Fair trade should also continue to diversify beyond traditional bananas, chocolates and coffees. Fair trade today applies to gold, clothing and the tourism sector. On 20 July, MEPs voted on a resolution to promote fair trade and the campaign "Make Belgium the country of fair trade", launched by the CTB in collaboration with the main organisations in the sector. MEPs recommend that the various public authorities, citizens, but also political associations and decision-makers, the horeca sector, businesses in general, schools, give fair trade the place it deserves and participate in the campaign in order to make Belgium the country of fair trade by 2020. This campaign must have the means. The Belgian Government's commitment to fair trade remains complete. The current agreement under the TDC program came to an end on December 31, 2017. It was provisionally extended until March 31, 2018. I instructed the administration to prepare with the BTC a new agreement for a four-year period. Part of this programme will continue to focus on fair trade awareness. It is not possible for me at this stage of budgetary discussions and negotiations with the BTC to give you the exact amounts which, under the programme, would be allocated specifically to awareness-raising in the area of fair trade. As part of the transformation of BTC into Enabel, special attention will be given to the private sector in the broader context of sustainable development goals. A number of Enabel actions, outside the framework of the TDC programme, are also likely to have a positive impact on fair trade.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer. This is a far-reaching action. It will also be necessary to avoid buying roses from Kenya, which have been stuffed with products. For me, it is also fair trade. Fair trade and ecological footprint, all this must be linked. Beyond what has already been done, what is important is awareness-raising that will develop. But I'm pretty confident. It was the same when we started sorting selectively in our country. At first, everyone raised their arms in heaven. Now, almost everyone thinks, fortunately, that this is normal. The same must be true in this matter. I know that you, Minister, are particularly aware of this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u61	I'm a little less satisfied with the answer. I didn't have one. My question was budget. I wanted to know what budget will be allocated to this campaign. It is special to launch such a campaign, which has very clear objectives, which has a real ambition, and to have no idea of the budgets that will be devoted to it. I hope that the discussions will continue and, above all, be fruitful. And that the necessary means will be put in place to achieve the objectives set.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament 20352 by Mr Blanchart, 20370 by Mr Flahaux and 20639 by Mr Dallemagne were postponed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Flahaux's 19940, 19951 and 19953 are converted into schistical questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs. Dedry's 21144 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u63	Minister, in April 2017, a resolution on the Belgian Food Security Fund (BSF) was adopted in plenary session. In particular, it recommended that the Government allocate the specific resources of the National Lottery (€17.5 million) to food security within the framework of the integrated policy and allocate 15% of Belgium's official development aid budget to agriculture and food security. It also includes ensuring that efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – including Goal 2 on hunger, food security, nutrition and sustainable agriculture – are reported to and monitored by the House in a transparent manner. Minister, what about the follow-up to these recommendations? When did you plan to return to our assembly on SDO No. 2?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic763x.u64	Mrs Grovonius, the programme law of 25 December 2016 provides that the resources of the National Lottery, which were in the past allocated to the Food Security Fund, will in the future be added to the budget of the DGD in order to cover the expenses related to food security. In this sense, the recommendation expressed by Parliament in the resolution of April 2017 was implemented by the end of 2016. The commitment to devote 15% of the Cooperation budget to agriculture and food security is also maintained. The strategy for agriculture and food security published in May 2017 and which I presented to Parliament reiterates this commitment. As you know, since 2016, UN Member States have been invited on a voluntary basis to submit a report on how they are implementing the Sustainable Development Goals in 2030 for Sustainable Development. This exercise of national voluntary reviews takes place during the United Nations High-level Political Forum. Also, in July 2017, Belgium presented its first national voluntary review entitled "Pathways to sustainable development". This report was submitted by me. All SDGs were reviewed, also SDG 2, which focuses on hunger eradication, food insecurity, improved nutrition and the promotion of sustainable agriculture. The report focuses on the implementation of the SDGs in Belgium but also on our external actions. With regard to SDG 2, the report mentions in particular our action on food security, the new strategy paper for agriculture and food security, our work with multilateral partners such as CGIAR and FAO. BIO's action is also discussed. I also presented Belgium's voluntary national report to Parliament on 28 June 2017 at a joint session of the House's Committees on External Relations, the Environment and Public Health.
