ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the current situation in Venezuela. Indeed, the country must face a deep economic crisis. Many commodities such as medicines are no longer available. To this economic crisis, it has become a political and institutional crisis. Elected in April 2014, President Maduro quickly saw his popularity rating collapse. At the end of 2015, the opposition became a majority in parliament. Since then, the legitimacy of the President has been questioned. A renewed tension has been observed in recent weeks. Several demonstrations organized by the opposition parties with a view to the removal of the President have all been severely repressed. Many arbitrary arrests of members of the opposition have been recorded. Minister, can you first give me the latest information in your possession about the situation in Venezuela? Is humanitarian aid, particularly for commodities, envisaged at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u2	Minister, I have tabled a question on the same subject. As the situation has already been summarized, I would have liked to know our country's position on it. What are our partners in the region? Is the safety of our fellow citizens compromised?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u3	Madam President, I will not repeat the whole context; the other questioners have already done so before me. Minister, I simply have a few questions about the government's position on the situation in Venezuela, the situation of our fellow countrymen at the moment and how we can support them on the ground. How can our country assist a number of organisations active in the country? Are we planning to send humanitarian aid in cooperation with Europe or not? Venezuela has a few debts, including ours. Do you know how many debts we're talking about? What do we do to ensure our position? After all, it is not impossible for Venezuela to have some kind of sale to pay off its debts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u4	Madam President, thank you. I share the concern of the members of the committee about the situation in Venezuela, which I conveyed in a communiqué issued on 24 April. The reports before me confirm that the situation continues to deteriorate at the political and socio-economic levels. Protests by the opposition since 1 April have resulted in at least 67 deaths to date and hundreds of people have been arrested. My services are closely following the situation both in Caracas and in multilateral forums. The country is in recession for the fourth consecutive year. We're talking about a 12% recession. Inflation is around 700% per year. The budget deficit reaches more than 20% (compared to GDP) and wages continue to fall. The majority of the population was hit by a serious humanitarian crisis and the poverty rate had doubled in one year, from 48 to 82 per cent. The share of extreme poverty has increased to 49 per cent. Humanitarian aid is made difficult by the government's refusal to recognize the existence of a humanitarian crisis. Nevertheless, the European Union supported Caritas to the tune of €300,000 to provide food to the most vulnerable people in four states of Venezuela. In addition, thirteen projects remaining in bilateral cooperation between the European Union and Venezuela that ended in 2013 are still under way, amounting to €6.5 million – support for local authorities, universities and civil society. Belgium fully supports the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union of 15 May 2017, through which the Union notes that in the last ten months mediation efforts have not produced the expected results. The European Union expects all actors and political institutions in Venezuela to work in a constructive spirit to find a solution to the crisis in the country, with full respect for the rule of law, human rights and the separation of powers, so that the Venezuelan people can express their will in a democratic manner. The release of imprisoned political opponents and respect for the constitutional rights of all political actors to vote and participate in elections are also decisive measures to build confidence and help the country restore its political stability. The EU strongly calls for external cooperation to be facilitated in order to meet the most urgent needs of the population. Through the European Union, we have partnerships in the area with Mercosur and with CELAG. These organisations may have a moderate influence, but they are also dependent on goodwill on the Venezuelan side. I have been in contact with some of my fellow Members in the region to discuss this and they have the same concern. As I know, the security of Belgian nationals in Venezuela was not directly threatened. The travel advice published on my department's website advises against all non-essential travels to Venezuela. The number of Belgians residing in Venezuela and registered in the consular register has fallen sharply from 539 in November 2016 to 239 at the moment within a period of six months. Although none of them reported to the diplomatic office in Caracas, the situation is closely followed by that office and also by the Belgian ambassador who has Venezuela within his jurisdiction and is residing in Bogota, in coordination with other EU Member States represented in Caracas. The question of whether Venezuela has debts with Belgium or not falls within the competence of the Department of Finance. I do not think this is the case, but I will ask the Minister of Finance to give you a direct answer, Mrs Bellens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u5	I thank the minister for these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u6	Me too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u7	Minister, the protests against President Maduro are an internal matter that we do not have to interfere with. What we must ask ourselves is what will happen after Mr Maduro. The problems in Colombia are getting solved, the region cannot afford to know again for several decades an unstable and decaying state. As far as the risks of selling out the heavily nationalised economy are concerned, there are suspicions that the failed legal coup of the Supreme Court would actually have been a way to gain control over the parliament in order to be able to pay out creditors in this way. Among other things, the Russian energy giant Rosneft is mentioned as a large creditor. So not only the safeguarding of democracy and respect for the rule of law are at stake there, but also the economic survival of the country. If all the potential of the country is distributed to potential creditors, the prosperity of the citizens of Venezuela is at stake. That's something we have to worry about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u8	Minister, Moldova is beginning to pursue an increasingly pro-Russian course under President Dodon. Not every party in Moldova agrees with that and the President regularly clashes with his prime minister. Recently, at the request of the President, Moldova was granted observer status at the meetings of the Eurasian Economic Union (EU), which is actually the Russian counterpart of the EU. That seems to indicate a bit of rapprochement between Moldova and Russia. At the same time, Moldova also signed the Association Agreement with the EU. Apparently, Dodon would prefer that to be canceled. Mr. Secretary, I have a few questions for you. What is Moldova's current status vis-à-vis the EU? Under what conditions can Moldova be a candidate to join the EU? What is our government's position on Moldova's observer status in the EU? Does the Minister and, of course, the European Union consider it desirable for Moldova to become a member of that EU? Why is that? Why is that? Is it possible for a country to have an association agreement with the two? Isn't that a pretty big spread? Do you think it is possible that they should choose one of the two organisations? What's your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u9	Mrs Bellens, Moldova's status is that of a partner country of the European Union within the framework of the neighbourhood policy. The conditions for membership are the same as for all other countries; they are confirmed in Articles 2 and 49 of the Treaty on European Union. As you yourself said, not everyone in Moldova is far from favourable to a rapprochement with Russia. Over the last few months, the Moldovan authorities have repeatedly reiterated their continued commitment to bringing the European Union closer together. The decision to become an observer in the EU should be approved by the government and by the Moldovan Parliament. According to my information, neither the government nor the parliament is ready to approve President Dodon's political manoeuvre. It'll still be dead letter. As far as I know, Moldova has never expressed the wish to become a full member of the EU, so I would rather not answer a purely hypothetical question at this time. Full participation in the EU is not compatible with the signing of an association agreement, let alone with EU membership. This is also reflected in the fact that the association agreements also contain a comprehensive and comprehensive free trade agreement. The signatories must therefore adapt to the economic standards of the EU, which are not compatible with the rules of the EU. For an EU Member State, the strict requirements of the Internal Market and the Customs Union make any simultaneous membership of the EU Customs Union impossible. I repeat that the European Commission has decided not to allow new enlargements during the current legislature, so it will be at the earliest for the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u11	Joined Questions Nos 18096 by Mr Maingain and 18115 and 18123 by Mr Hedebouw are transformed into written questions. Joined Questions Nos 18159 and 18912 by Mr Blanchart and No 19447 by Mr Flahaux are postponed. Question No 18161 by Mr Blanchart is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u12	Minister, like Mosul or Nimroud, the city of Hatra, recently liberated from the Islamic State terrorist organization by Iraqi forces, has suffered many destructions. These deliberate attacks have led to a collective awakening on the need to preserve the threatened cultural heritage. The press has echoed this quite abundantly. United Nations Security Council resolution 2347 on combating the destruction and looting of archaeological treasures or the recent establishment of the International Alliance for the Protection of Heritage in Conflict Areas bears witness to this new common interest. So my questions are double. I would like to know our country's position on this policy of protecting and restoring cultural heritage in these areas of conflict, and whether, if so, our country will participate in initiatives that would try to establish itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u13	Mrs Jadin, I have spoken on numerous occasions and in various forums in favour of preserving the cultural heritage at risk. As you point out, in territories affected by armed conflict and terrorism, illegal attacks on cultural heritage are constantly increasing and are part of a comprehensive strategy to reach and destroy the identity of populations affected by such violence. In order to combat these irremediable losses, Belgium has consistently provided active support to the various bodies responsible for the defence and protection of the world's cultural heritage. Belgium sponsored, inter alia, United Nations Security Council resolution 2199 on illicit trafficking and resolution 2347 on combating the destruction and looting of archaeological treasures. With regard to the work of UNESCO, an inter-ministerial commission on humanitarian law, in which the Regions and the Communities are stakeholders, was set up in June 2016. The Commission has a working group to implement the 1954 Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. It works with all authorities and associations to achieve this goal. Belgium is particularly attentive to this issue. Since 2011, she has been a member of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict, established by the 1954 Hague Convention, and served as its Chairman between 2012 and 2014. Thanks to an existing partnership between the Defence and the Belgian Red Cross, a first Hostile Environment Awareness Training (HEAT) for experts in the protection of cultural property (including architects, technical specialists, archaeologists) was given at the end of May 2017, with situational exercises. Actions on the ground could then be considered. Finally, on 27 April 2017, Belgium co-signed the Unesco resolution on its participation in the founding council of the International Alliance for the Protection of Heritage in Conflict Areas (ALIPH). This will allow Unesco to sit on the Foundation Council and also benefit from its funding. We will of course continue to work in this framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u14	Of course I encourage you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u15	Minister, on the night of Monday to Tuesday, April 25, 2017, the Turkish air force carried out bombings in the Iraqi region of Sinjar as well as in north-eastern Syria. The newspaper Le Monde reports, in an article published on 25 April 2017, that a Yezidi militia allied with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) was targeted. The Turkish authorities claimed that the objective of the operation was to prevent the PKK from transporting weapons and explosives to Turkish territory. President Erdogan had already suggested that he would not allow the PKK organisation to expand its activities in this region. Minister, what can you tell us about the current situation in the Sinjar region? What relations are currently maintained between the PKK and the Yezidi community? Are targeted strikes against this community again to be feared?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u16	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, with regard to the situation and the fighting in and around Sinjar, we have obtained from our sources the following information. The situation in Sinjar continues to be tense. At the beginning of March, incidents took place between the Yazidi Sinjar Resistance Units supported by the PKK, on the one hand, and the elements Peshmergas Rojava, Syrian Kurds refugees in Iraq affiliated with the Kurdish National Council close to the Iraqi Kurdish government and Turkey, on the other. The fighting took place near the town of Khanassor some 20 kilometres from Sinjar. As part of these tensions, on the morning of 25 April 2017, the Turkish air force took action attacking several times the positions of the PKK and the Yezidi militias it supports in the Sinjar mountains. These Turkish attacks were condemned by Baghdad and the various Kurdish factions in Iraq. Even the Kurdish Democratic Party allied with Ankara joined these condemnations, adding however that the presence of the PKK in Sinjar was unacceptable. At the diplomatic level, the situation has become considerably complicated. The alliance between Iraqi Kurds and Turks is supported by Russians who provide Kurds, resources and economic assistance. Iranians support the PKK to some extent. The United States has requested that this PKK force leave the Sinjar area as soon as the fighting against Daesh is over. To this, he adds that, following the Iraqi forces' advances against Daesh in northern Iraq, the Popular Mobilization Units, mainly Shiite militias, appeared in the southern part of the region. Recently, inter-Kurdish fighting seems to have stopped. It was once again the common struggle against Daesh that was the priority in recent weeks. The terrorist organization continues to retreat and has just been driven from several localities in Sinjar, such as the Yezidi city of Kocho. Nevertheless, tensions remain strong and illustrate the instability prevailing in liberated territories where non-State actors are engaged in influential struggles to control them. As far as the Yezidis community is concerned, none of the groups in the region seems to him specifically hostile. On the contrary, all are trying to recruit its members from their respective militias, but the politico-military situation in the region makes the prospect of a return of currently refugees to various camps, mainly in Iraqi Kurdistan very uncertain. Several prominent members of the Yezidis community called for an end to the fratricidal fighting and a focus on the joint struggle against Daesh. We continue to monitor this situation and its military, humanitarian and diplomatic aspects closely, of course, also in the context of an examination carried out by our colleagues in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u17	Thank you, Minister. So we keep an eye on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u18	As Mrs Grovonius was not present, Mrs Bellens had the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u19	Minister, on 27 April a group of masked men entered the Macedonian parliament. A number of journalists and Members of Parliament were severely damaged. After the elections in December 2016 in Macedonia, no clear winner came out. The former government party apparently has a very difficult time with this and does not see the opposition under Mr Zoran Zaev's leadership wanting to form a coalition. Can you explain to us exactly what happened there? What is the Belgian Government's position on this matter? How will our country and the EU support democracy and the rights of minorities in Macedonia? What is your position on possible EU intervention in Macedonia, in the spirit of EUFOR Concordia, EUPOL and so on? What are the chances of success of such a mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u20	Mrs Bellens, I see that a question from Mrs Grovonius has also been added. I have an answer that has mainly been drawn up in French. It's okay that we're with so few members, we're still enough in number to play cards. There are four of us, including the chairman. My answer is in French, that's not so bad, I mean? On 27 April 2017, a crowd of demonstrators actually invaded the Macedonian Parliament and physically attacked several parliamentarians, including the leader of the main opposition party, Mr Zoran Zaev. The trigger for this attack was the election of an opposition Speaker of Parliament. The police have had difficulty restoring order. It would have taken some time before the wounded and the parliamentarians trapped in the building were evacuated. These facts are extremely serious and the use of violence is unacceptable. This is in essence the message that the High Representative and the Enlargement Commissioner made on behalf of the European Union and its Member States. However, I welcome the fact that some 30 persons involved in these incidents have been prosecuted by the judiciary. In order to avoid the recurrence of such acts, it is essential that all those responsible be identified and held accountable for their actions. In the meantime, Mr.Zaev was appointed Prime Minister on 1 June 2017, which in a way calmed the political atmosphere in the country. Given the normalisation of the situation, no meetings on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are currently scheduled at European level. The priority for the European Union is now to support that country in the reforms necessary to restore the rule of law and eventually join the European Union. With regard to the role of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the Organization organized the observation of the parliamentary elections in December 2016. At the political level, the situation on the ground has received special attention within the Council of the Organization. We have had a number of discussions at European level across the Balkans. So far we have seen some negative developments, not only in Macedonia but also in other countries. So we are trying to move forward with the partnership, but in recent months we have not seen any positive elements in different countries. We'll try to get back on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u21	Questions Nos 18258 by Mr. Van Hees, 18331 by Mr. Van der Maelen and Mrs Grovonius's 18394 were transformed into written questions. Question No 18265 by Mr. De Vriendt is, too. Question No 18279 by Mr Blanchart is postponed. We now come to the questions attached to item 26. I propose to postpone this point until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u22	Madam President, I do not see any difficulty in holding back, but I really cannot commit myself to dealing with everything that will be postponed before the holidays. I want to come and spend hours in committee, but if parliamentarians don't come, I won't be able to find opportunities in my agenda to come because there are still pending questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u23	You're right, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u24	Madam President, things are moving faster than expected. Minister, on 12 March 2017, Swedish Zaida Catalan and American Michael Sharp were kidnapped in the Congolese province of Kasaï. Two weeks later, they were found murdered. They investigated the massacres in the province in a conflict between the Congolese government and the traditional clans. These clans are a power and are recognized by the Congolese constitution as so-called authorites coutumières. The death of both experts is touching us deeply. Zaida Catalan was part of the green family. Her father was a political refugee from Chile. She was also active with the young Swedish Greens. She was a candidate member of the European Parliament and was a member of the Stockholm City Council. She worked for a long time as a lawyer for our group in the European Parliament. Since 2010, however, she has worked as an expert on sexual violence in Goma. Michael Sharp also had many years of experience in Congo. He firmly believed in the need for dialogue with rebels of all kinds. What's the status of the investigation? Is it clear who's behind the murders? Have there been any diplomatic contacts on this issue? What is the current situation in Kasaï? Local tribes are often portrayed as militias by the government in Kananga and Kinshasa. Do you believe that the balance between the state and the traditional power structure is at risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u25	Minister, on 31 March the UN Security Council adopted a resolution on the situation in Congo regarding the mandate of the MONUSCO. The MONUSCO would also evaluate the security situation in the country and carry out an analysis of its functioning on the basis thereof. It is new that the MONUSCO is making an assessment of the situation in the country. Is the evaluation of the security situation already available by MONUSCO? What is your analysis of the report, in particular with regard to the presidential elections to be organised and the security situation in the Kasaï and Eastern Congo regions? A month ago, we received reports that the protection of Dr. Mukwege would be lifted by the MONUSO. However, the UN indicated that protection was stopped, but last month a doctor on Dr. Mukwege's team was murdered. What analysis does the MONUSCO report make of the need to maintain the protection of Dr Mukwege? Will you undertake further démarches on UN echelon and possibly within the EU to insist on further protection? I'll come to the other questions. The situation in the region of Kasaï continues to deteriorate. The violence is escalating. My colleague has already mentioned the UN experts who lost their lives. Western NGOs do not have access to the area. The European Commission Development Assistance Service has just reduced funding for Central Africa from EUR 38.5 million to EUR 32 million. However, this budget is necessary to address the various security and refugee crises in the region. My questions to the Minister are as follows. What is the situation in the Kasaï? What is the Minister's analysis of destabilizing this region? What influence do the Congolese authorities have on this? What demarches have already been made? We in Parliament have always advocated an independent international investigation in the region of Kasaï. On 23 March, the Congolese Minister for Human Rights, during the interactive dialogue at the UN Human Rights Council, opened the door for a possible investigation by MONUSCO, the UN Office in Congo and the African Union. What is the state of play in this regard? Will the Minister call for an increase in ECHO resources? The UN intervention brigade plays an important role in tackling the security crisis. However, it is not being used sufficiently. What's the cause of this? What is the Minister's analysis of a possible increased deployment of this brigade? What new steps do you propose in the Kasaï region? Then I come to my last and most current question. Individual sanctions were increased to a total of sixteen. We have advocated this in our own resolution. The European Union has followed this démarche and increased the number of sanctions to the 16 leaders in the Congolese security forces. These are persons who are responsible for the delay in the electoral process, for human rights violations and for the escalating violence in Congo, in particular in the province of Kasaï. These sanctions were taken, partly thanks to the pressure from Belgium. Since last week, we have also seen some kind of countermeasures coming from Congo. Seven Belgians will be endorsed, including you and a number of fellow Members. We find ourselves in some sort of penalty race with Congo. This could jeopardise the important role that Belgium should play in bilateral and multilateral discussions and cooperation in order to achieve peaceful, free and fair elections. That is why I would have liked to ask you the following questions. How do you view this threat? What sanctions do you expect from the authorities? What will you do to prevent such a penalty race? Which international partners in the region do you also want to work with in order to resolve the situation sustainably? How do you see the progress of cooperation with Angola, for example, as a political broker? That country shows itself to be a reliable and important player with regard to the escalation of violence in Congo, as well as with regard to refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u26	Minister, the situation in Kasai is worrying. The sanctions of the European Union were probably not taken sufficiently seriously by those they targeted. Minister, what is the impact? More broadly, can these sanctions lead Kinshasa to discuss the human rights situation in the country? What are the consequences of attacks on prisons on human rights violations in the region? What are the consequences for the security situation in general? Moreover, in questioning the progress of the Congolese electoral process in this regard, it would be interesting to know the latest progress. What is the impact of the security situation in other provinces, including in Kasai, on the progress of the Congolese electoral process?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u27	Madam President, Minister, I seem to be in good company. I was told that we are no longer allowed to travel to Congo and that an entry ban would have been issued. It may be a reaction to this, but it has not yet been confirmed by the Congolese authorities as a result of the sanctions imposed by the European Union against the Congolese authorities, in which nine persons were specifically mentioned. I would like to hear your response to the rumors or communications concerning Mr Ouvry, Mr de Crombrugghe, you and I not being allowed to travel. In addition, most of the elements were already listed and the questions asked. However, I would like your special response to the humanitarian situation in Kasaï. In what way could MONUSCO better protect this vulnerable population? There is a new famine. How do they deal with that? Have any specific questions been asked to the Belgian Government about humanitarian aid? I would also like to ask you about the state of play in the international independent investigation to bring those responsible for this extreme violence to justice. How far is that? Do you have any more information about this? Minister, these are the three elements I would like to hear in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u28	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about this reaction of the Congolese leaders, following the recent sanctions imposed by the European Union against several personalities involved in the massacres and multiple repressions in Kasai, of which we have already spoken a lot. The reaction of the Congolese authorities has not been delayed. They announce that they want to take action against several Belgian ambassadors, against you and against other Belgian politicians. According to the Congolese authorities, Belgium has influenced the European authorities in their decision to impose sanctions on these Congolese officials. Therefore, without adding to the debate, I would like to ask you a number of questions, Minister. Have you had any recent contacts with the DRC authorities, after these last statements and the announcement of probable sanctions? Have you had a recent exchange, at European level, on the situation in the DRC and the likely Congolese sanctions that could have been imposed on Belgian officials? Madam President, for my colleague who is on a mission abroad, I will also ask the minister to tell us a word about the protection of Dr. Mukwege.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u29	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u30	I deeply deplore the general deterioration of the security and human rights situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The current situation in the Kasai is of great concern, although the situation in the eastern provinces of Kivu and Tanganyika is not yet pacified. Other parties also seem fragile, as evidenced by the situation in Bas-Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u31	Nearly three million people are now affected by the conflict in Kasai. Nearly 1.2 million people will need humanitarian assistance in the next six months, the majority of whom are internally displaced persons or have returned to their villages of origin. According to MONUSCO, at least 369 people were killed during the period April-May 2017. The Catholic Church has already reported more than 3,000 victims since the beginning of the conflict. 9 out of 26 provinces are currently affected by the crisis in the Grand Kasaï. In total, there are now about 1.3 million displaced persons. After Syria, the DRC thus ranks second with 2.4 million IDPs worldwide. Central Kasaï suffers most: 90% of the area remains virtually inaccessible. The Belgian humanitarian efforts for the DRC and the region are significant. Mr De Croo has allocated more than EUR 20 million in humanitarian aid to Central Africa. We also call for an increase in the European Union's humanitarian contribution to this region. It is true that this flow of refugees is worrying Angola, where, according to the UNHCR, some 50 000 refugees have arrived in a short time, including part of the Congolese army and police. Every day, between two hundred and a thousand new people arrive in the north of Angola, often unaccompanied children. Our country, including through our embassy in Luanda, is in close contact with the Angolan authorities. On 29 March, in a press release, I expressed my indignation at the death of two members of the UN expert group in the province of Central Kasaï, Michael Sharp and Zaïda Catalan. They disappeared there together with their Congolese escorts. I have expressed my condolences and tribute to their struggle for the defence of the values of the United Nations. I stress that it is essential for Belgium that those responsible should be tried and that such acts should not go unpunished. It is up to the authorities of two countries from which the victims come, the United States and Sweden, to define the methods of investigation they prefer. On 20 May, the DRC's Auditorate General reported that the preliminary investigation into the death of the two experts had been completed. The Swedish investigating judge in charge of the case would have said that this did not put an end to the Swedish investigation. I have asked our embassy in Stockholm and our embassy in Washington to inform these countries of our readiness to cooperate. In addition, I asked our mission in New York to keep an eye on the progress of the case. At the United Nations level, an administrative survey, the Board of Inquiry, was established by the Secretariat. We are deeply concerned about the current impunity. Belgium strongly supports the High Commissioner's request of 9 June to establish an international investigation into serious human rights violations in the Kasai. The end of impunity is one of the important conditions for a peaceful transition in the country. This would be in addition to the ongoing investigations conducted by the DRC. Our country supports the European Union's efforts in Geneva to set up such a committee and follows this issue with great attention. I would also like to remind you that I have been advocating for months for an international mechanism to investigate the massacres in Kasai. Any initiative to resolve the crisis in the Kasai must first be based on respect for the rule of law. It is in this sense that we are acting. Only a small number of Belgians would still be present in the Kasai. They are mainly religious. Other people spontaneously left the conflict zone. Despite the difficulties of communication, our embassy in Kinshasa tried to maintain telephone contact with the Belgians on the spot. Of course, we do not recommend all trips to the Kasai, especially in view of the difficulties of access. For the individual measures adopted by the European Union on 29 May, I can refer to the accompanying declaration by the EU and its Member States. It states that the deteriorating human rights situation is the main reason for adopting such measures, with the aim of halting these human rights violations. Our country was involved in the elaboration of these measures, as were the other EU Member States. I can assure you that there was broad consensus on this within the EU. If the behaviour of persons on the list would change in the future, or if an international investigation into the involvement of this person proves this, I think it is a good reason to remove the person from the penalty list. I do not wish to go into what the Belgian and European attitude should be if the DRC responded to this sanction with counter-measures. No measures have been taken for the time being. The list put down by the press is only intended as a form of threat, as well as some provocative statements by members of the Congolese Government. I deliberately don't want to be part of this. I can only tell you that the cause of the crisis is not in Belgium. The indignation about this is very great. Nor do I see how taking action against Belgian and European politicians or diplomats can help resolve the political crisis and human rights crisis in the DRC, quite the contrary. Our country subscribes to an ambitious European and multilateral approach and discusses this matter with EU partners. We also continue to keep a channel open to prevent the tensions with the DRC from getting out of hand. Both with me, with my employees and with the embassy, there are regular contacts with all the parties involved. We are also having talks with countries in the region, recently with my Zambian and Tanzanian counterparts. The country's institutional, socio-economic, security and human rights crisis can only be controlled by full implementation of the agreement of 31 December 2016 and, therefore, by greater transparency and inclusiveness. The international community expects a clear commitment from the authorities, which is indeed part of a credible electoral process. I recall here the importance of holding open and credible presidential and parliamentary elections this year. The implementation of pre-election descriptors and respect for freedom of expression and association are also essential. In this context, all voters, including those in the Kasai, must be able to be enlisted and participate clearly in the electoral process. As you know, there is, at this stage, no realistic budget or precise timetable for the organisation of elections. They are essential to restoring the credibility of the process. The consequences of attacks on prisons on human rights violations in the region are not yet known. It is clear that prisoners' escapes do not contribute to the improvement of the security situation and respect for the rule of law. As regards the United Nations reporting issue, the first report of the Secretary-General on progress made and possible political and technical obstacles to the implementation of the agreement of 31 December 2016 and the preparations for the elections was made public on 17 May. He's still pretty general. I call for these reports to mention in detail future developments and obstacles in the internal political situation and in the preparations for elections. Several colleagues have come back to Dr. Mukwege's protection situation. I share your analysis of the increased security risk and the need to ensure permanent and permanent protection of Dr. Mukwege. I would like to pay tribute to his outstanding work with his team at Panzi Hospital. In the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, unfortunately, there is a tradition of using sexual violence as a weapon of war. The hospital provides access to medical and psychosocial care, but also provides lawyers to victims. Hospitals and patients are often victims of threats and revenge by perpetrators of sexual violence. MONUSCO withdrew its permanent protection from the doctor in September 2015, maintaining escorts for travel and working in partnership with hospital and national police security guards. Belgium has always advocated for the permanent protection of Dr. Mukwege by MONUSCO. Among the recent steps we have taken, let me mention our initiatives in New York and Kinshasa to the Director of the Department of Peacekeeping and the Chief of Security of MONUSCO. On 15 May, in a debate in the Security Council on women in conflict zones, I asked our Permanent Representative in New York to raise the issue of the doctor's safety, with whom I personally had contacts to address the sustainability of his security and that of the Panzi hospital by MONUSCO. I am pleased that she has made the decision to strengthen Dr. Mukwege's protection and to assess the security risks. Based on the concerns expressed, MONUSCO will organize an assessment to determine the appropriate level of protection. It has already deployed, in a preventive manner, uniformed personnel at the Panzi hospital to ensure 24-hour protection. In addition, it will increase the number of patrols in the area until the security assessment is completed. I will continue to follow this issue very closely. I assure you that Belgium remains at Denis Mukwege's disposal, which I have had on the phone several times, but that I also saw in New York during my participation in the conference on oceans. I can tell you that he was reassured by the security measures taken at the hospital and in his travels. I told him not to hesitate to resume contact if he wanted us to intervene again. I would like to give you two more elements. Firstly, I have been in contact today with the representatives of the government in Congo, responsible for the Virunga Park. It is a very important matter, but in the east of Congo there is a poor evolution in security. There's been a reinforcement of the security measures for the park. I've seen Emmanuel de Merode who is responsible for the protection of that natural park. The situation is not only very bad in the Kasai and other provinces, but also in the east of Congo. Secondly, we are trying to have proper bilateral contact with the Congolese Government, but also with all partners. We will continue in this direction, with the majority and opposition and with the government and Members of Parliament. I think it is very useful to have all possible contacts to try to find a solution, but so far we have not seen an efficient implementation of the agreement by the end of 2016. We will continue to work, but I repeat that there is a very poor evolution in security in many different parts of Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u32	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. You outlined the refugee problem in Congo. Belgium and Europe must take responsibility for this at some point. It is very striking to note that UN staff are already the target in Kasaï. The deaths of the two experts are particularly regrettable. I wonder who or what the Congolese authorities can control. The borders are shifting, if we now also see threats being made and there is a ban on access for foreign ministers and even for Members of Parliament. It shows that one is not shy, feels few inhibitions and yet is willing to go very far. Quite remarkable, I think. Thank you for your efforts in investigating the death of the two UN experts in Kasaï. I would like to ask you to maintain your weight for a non-violent solution to the political but perhaps also economic conflicts that are taking place in the Congo. Keeping the dialogue open with all parties, including the Congolese Government, is indeed important. It is something that our country can contribute to. I think you can count on a consensus from the Belgian Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. Unfortunately, the scenario of chaos and violence we predicted at the time is becoming more and more true. I hope that the holding of elections is not one of the miracles, but that they will take place one day, as not many initiatives have been given to implement the Sylvester agreement. The line that Belgium is maintaining is very good. Within the context of the European Union and multilaterally, it is our attitude to ensure that we work together with other Member States. The Congolese are clearly trying to break us up by specifically putting Belgium as a strong partner and as a broker, in order to try to break the international partnership, which is very close at this level. I think it is a good thing that you do not participate and that we do not end up in some sort of penalty race. It is good that you keep the line of the Sylvester agreement, the only agreement that is a good basis for further work, and that you always stick to it. We must also stick to the deadlines that are set in it. It is also important that international independent investigations are not launched. It is still important that you continue to press for this to be done at international level. This includes the protection of Dr Mukwege, who does a fantastic job in the Panzi hospital. We're satisfied with the line you're holding. Belgium is in a good position in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u34	Minister, it is my turn to give you my full support. As we feared a year ago, unfortunately, we are witnessing chaos, not only in the Kasai region, but also, as you explained, in many other parts of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I would also like to congratulate you, Minister, on your efforts to begin the investigation into the deaths of the two experts. I encourage you on the path you are taking to focus on another multilateral approach to trying to help in conflicts. Finally, I would also like to stress the importance of dialogue with all parties present in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I continue to insist that international investigations be conducted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u35	Minister, for 20 years Kabila has certainly not brought the Congolese what he was promised. Not much of those five shipyards from Kabila came into the house. The two elections were also quite frustrating. At the United Nations Human Development Index, Congo is at the bottom of life expectancy, education and income. In terms of safety, mopping with the tap is open. This is evident from the situation in Kasaï with about four million people fleeing. Congo is a failed state. I follow your reasoning that we should not go along with a bid of sanctions or pseudo-sanctions which would be merely a threat. However, we must continue to give a critical voice. That is what we must do with Europe as a lever to achieve concrete results through a multilateral approach. It's being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. I appeal to the utmost caution of everyone and not to give in to the provocations of power in place. I know that you are doing this, Minister, but I call for caution, because I think that the purpose of the power in place is to provoke us and to provoke reactions that may inflame things. We have no interest in falling into this trap. Even in the presidential majority, I feel that there are divisions. I recently met a minister whom your services also saw last week. I gave him the same speech: the only way to avoid sanctions at European level is for them to define the electoral calendar. Let's not fall into the trap of provocation. I continue to believe in diplomacy, whether it is yours or that of parliamentarians. I will continue my work in this direction, calmly, without responding to provocations. I do not think it would be in the interest of the country to find itself in isolation, as in Burundi. As long as there are possibilities for appeasement, we must keep our heads cold in this matter. All parliamentarians who take positions are well listened to and relayed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. That is why I call for the utmost caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, now that Mr Hellings is back, I propose that we return to item 21 of our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u38	Minister, I thank the Minister and my colleagues for their flexibility. Minister, on 21 March last, I once again mentioned with you the tragic fate of the Belgian national Ali Aarrass, whom Amnesty International had told us that he was incarcerated and tortured in Morocco. Seven days later, following a petition by his lawyers to the Committee against Torture of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (CAT), the Committee adopted an exceptional interim measure in respect of Morocco. I quote: "In accordance with rule 114(1-3) of its rules of procedure, the Committee urged the State party to alleviate the complainant's prison regime and to guarantee his rights as a prisoner, so as to avoid any irreversible damage to the person concerned without prejudice to the Committee's decision on the merits of the case". This measure has been taken because of the persistence of torture, cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of our fellow citizen, even though CAT finds that Morocco has been convicted of violation of the principle of absolute prohibition of the use of evidence obtained under torture. Mr. Aarrass is reportedly currently being held in total solitary confinement for more than six months, without sufficient mattresses, medical care or food, which is clearly contrary to the Mandela Rules. According to his family, he has lost nearly 20 kilos since the introduction of this particular detention regime. Concerning the interim measure ordered by the CAT, Mr Aarrass's family informs that it has still not been implemented by Morocco – at least at the time I introduced my question, namely on 4 May last. That's why I have two questions, Mr. Minister. Is this interim measure of the CTU in respect of Morocco not an additional means for you to exert the diplomatic pressure necessary to put an end to the ill-treatment currently suffered by our fellow citizen? In your reply of 21 March, you indicated to me that you did not have any possibility of action against Morocco in order to exercise any form of consular assistance. However, you may wish to advance to the Moroccan authorities the conclusions of the Nottebohm judgments concerning the predominant nationality. Thus, you would have the opportunity to rely on the jurisprudence of the International Court of Justice in order to be able to provide the appropriate consular assistance to Mr. Aarrass, who is undoubtedly of Belgian nationality, even if he is also Moroccan. Therefore, if Moroccan refusal continues, you could refer the matter to the International Court of Justice. Are you considering it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u39	First of all, I would like to make it clear, Mr Hellings, that in all the contacts we have with the Moroccan authorities, we are told every time that we intervene for a person considered to be involved in terrorism cases. I would like to make that clear because, even in the direct contacts I have had with Moroccan colleagues, this is obviously the first answer we receive. However, my services continue to follow closely the fate of this Belgian national incarcerated in Morocco. On 19 April, the Court of Cassation of the Kingdom of Morocco handed down its verdict and rejected the appeal in cassation brought by the detainee. She therefore validated the sentence to 12 years in prison. In view of this verdict of the highest Moroccan court, the talks focus on the regime of detention of the person concerned. As you have just pointed out, the United Nations Committee against Torture has called for a reduction in its prison regime. As a result, the Moroccan National Human Rights Council carried out an investigation visit at the end of last year, issuing observations and recommendations on the detention regime. The Moroccan authorities continue to reject the activation of consular protection and, therefore, a consular visit, based on the provisions of article 36 of the Vienna Convention. For the time being, our contacts focus on the possibility of a visit by a diplomatic representative of the country of second nationality in a humanitarian context. The possibility of such a humanitarian visit would give us the possibility of direct contact with this fellow citizen, as well as an analysis of the elements of his prison regime. So far, I repeat, we have not obtained this type of access. The Moroccan authorities, in an international context that you know, are of course systematically responding to us that this person also has Moroccan nationality and is being convicted in the context of terrorist activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to point out that, although terrorism cases are very important, this term does not have the same meaning in our democracies, in Western Europe, and in Morocco. Even if it is a matter of being very careful, we know that in some cases, certain regimes, including the Moroccan regime, are grouped under the term "terrorism" behaviors that are quite other. These are sometimes political opponents, who are categorized as "terrorists". Secondly, you did not answer the question of the jurisprudence of the International Court of Justice, namely, the Nottebohm judgment on preponderant nationality. I think that would be a way of acting, in parallel with the initiatives that you systematically take in bilateral relations and your relations with your colleague or the Moroccan Foreign Office. I don't deny the initiative you're taking. But if the situation worsens – which seems to be the case since the humanitarian situation of the person concerned seems catastrophic – you could consider this appeal before the International Court of Justice on the basis of Nottebohm, which is an important case law. This is a new element in this case. I therefore invite you both to maintain the pressure, as you are doing, but in a very strict manner vis-à-vis Morocco to ensure that the health situation of this Belgian national does not deteriorate too much and, on the other hand, to consider a possible recourse as a means of political pressure before the International Court of Justice in order to amplify the initiatives taken, even if it is known that Morocco considers that a Moroccan bi-national is above all Moroccan. And we deplore him, like all the Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt's 18320 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u42	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the letter you sent, together with some European colleagues, to Commissioner Malmström in charge of trade, in order to ask the European Union to take better account of the objectives of sustainable development. I, along with my group, have tabled a resolution calling for greater involvement of Parliament in achieving these sustainable development goals. Mr Minister, can you give me more details about the letter you sent, together with your European colleagues, to the European Commissioner for Trade? Have you read the resolution I tabled with my group? What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u43	Madam President, on 11 May I took the initiative to send a letter with my colleagues in Finland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Sweden to Commissioner Malmström in charge of trade in order to ask the European Union to take better account of the objectives for sustainable development in the European Union's trade policy. In preparation for the Foreign Affairs and Trade Council on 11 May, we approached five Member States close to Belgium to advocate for the importance of the social and environmental standards contained in the sustainable development chapters of the European Union's trade agreements. The letter is part of the broader Belgian reflections and is based on elements consolidated with the competent Belgian levels of power. It made it possible to take advantage of the planned debate on the cross-cutting implementation of the European Union's free trade agreements to, in particular, confirm the specific attention of Belgium and its partners on the implementation of the Sustainable Development chapters. This initiative is consistent with the federal government's policy of an inclusive and equitable free trade and is part of my personal commitment to making sustainable development provisions more effective in Europe agreements. In response to a question from Mrs Grovonius, I have already been able to inform Parliament of my participation in a public discussion in Geneva at the end of February, with MM. Ryder and Azevedo, the respective Directors General of the International Labour Organization and the World Trade Organization. The letter identifies concrete avenues for action that could already be implemented within the existing framework. For details, I refer you to the copy of this letter annexed to the report of the Foreign Affairs and Trade Council, which my services have forwarded to Parliament. In particular, my colleagues and I are calling for closer cooperation with the relevant multilateral organisations and for the complementarity of the efforts of the European delegations and the embassies of the Member States present. We also call for maximum coherence between the European Union's trade policy and other policy areas of the European Union, in particular development cooperation policies. In this connection, I recall that my colleague Alexander De Croo and his development counterparts also stressed the link between development and the other external policies of the European Union, including trade policy, when they adopted on 18 May a joint declaration on the new European consensus for development. This message from Belgium comes all the more opportune as the Commission invited the experts from the Member States to work on the same topic at the beginning of June. I understand from the meetings of the Trade Council that we were joined by other partners along the lines of the letter we sent to the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u44	Minister, you have not given any opinion on the resolution we have tabled. Maybe you haven't had time to get to know about it yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u45	We're going to get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u47	Madam President, Minister, on 8 May the Israeli Council of Ministers agreed to demote Arabic, the official language alongside Hebrew in Israel. However, the language has a special status in the state. The Arabic speakers could still retain access to state services in their language, but the official bilingualism of the state apparatus would be abolished. However, Arabic is the mother tongue of about 20% of Israeli citizens. This clearly fits in with the further legal anchoring of the Jewish character of the State of Israel. This is an issue which since Ben-Gurion has been handled rather pragmatically, at least the theoretical equivalence of all nationals, regardless of religion, language or origin. In recent decades, there has been a clear evolution towards a more exclusive citizenship whereby non-Jews, and especially Arabs, not only factually but also legally move towards second-class citizenship. The degradation of Arabic must therefore be seen in that context. The Israeli Government's intention to implement this must in itself give rise to concern. What do you think of this evolution? Will you express your concern to the Israeli Government about abolishing Arabic as an official language in Israel? Will you interplay the Israeli Ambassador on this matter and make it clear that this intention is absolutely a step too far for Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u48	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, I would like to begin by pointing out that Israel is a party to various UN human rights treaties which involve certain obligations in the field of the promotion and protection of minority rights. Belgium raised the situation of minorities in Israel during the UPR of Israel in October 2013. One of the Belgian recommendations was about equality between citizens and asked for the real enjoyment of equality, economic, social and cultural rights. Particular reference was made to the right to work and education. These recommendations were accepted by Israel. The text on Israel as "the Nation-State of the Jewish People', which gave Arabic a special status, in comparison with Hebrew, was approved by a ministerial committee at a preliminary reading on 10 May. After that, however, the Israeli Government indicated that it would be working on a new text itself. It is therefore not excluded that this text will be very different from the first version and that the rights of all citizens in Israel will continue to be guaranteed in the second version. Our position will depend on the final version of the text. We have many experts in Belgium on language, for whom it is possible to give an opinion on the second version.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u49	Minister, as far as giving an opinion is concerned, we can certainly set an example, perhaps not in our own country, but abroad. The fact that the Israeli Government has withdrawn the first version of the text and is now apparently working on a subsequent draft indicates that it may itself realise that there is opposition. That creates space to give a signal, if the opportunity exists to do so. The context there is quite explosive. I do not think it is in the interest of Israel itself, nor of the Arabic part of the population in Israel, to go to even more conflicts and tensions. This kind of legislation would effectively throw even more oil on the fire. I believe that we must oppose this and try to make that clear to our Israeli partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u50	Minister, the Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip is ten years old this month. During this period, the living conditions of the population have deteriorated and there has been three serious conflicts with Israel, with many Palestinian civilian deaths. There is no immediate prospect of improvement. For example, there are acute problems with water supply and electricity supply. A number of measures have recently been taken by the Israeli authorities. I'd like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, is there sufficient attention at European level to the situation in Gaza? Will you put the humanitarian situation in Gaza back on the agenda? Will you raise the political context of the situation in Gaza again? Will you continue to advocate bilaterally and through the European level with Israel the abolition of the illegal blockade of Gaza? Secondly, the Gaza Reconstruction Mechanism is inadequate. It has been in place for three years now, but results have not been achieved, partly because of the poor administration and because Israel still has the final decision on the import of goods into the Gaza Strip. Will you advocate at the level of the United Nations, but also bilaterally with Israel and the Palestinian Authority, that the Gaza Reconstruction Mechanism be revised? Thirdly, it is politically difficult to have contacts for humanitarian projects with the authorities de facto in the Gaza Strip, including Hamas. What are the relevant guidelines for Belgian diplomacy and for NGOs operating in Gaza with Belgian money? Can they have functional contacts with Hamas officials, for example, as long as they are not political contacts? What directives do other countries apply to contacts with Hamas? Does Hamas' new charter change from two weeks ago, as far as you're concerned, anything in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u51	Thank you, Mr De Vriendt, for your question. It allows me to draw attention to the situation in Gaza. I share your concern. It is one of the reasons why I was on the ground last year during my last mission in Israel and Palestine. The European Union is also concerned about the situation in Gaza and continues to invest in projects to improve the humanitarian situation there. For example, a European investment of EUR 10 million in January 2017 allowed the opening of a desalination plant. Our country also wants to contribute to this. During my stay I visited a school that was renovated with our support. Our position on this subject is clear and unchanged, and I will defend it over and over again. We call on all parties to take swift action to bring about a fundamental change in the political, economic and security situation in the Gaza Strip. We demand the end of the closure, the full opening of border crossings and, at the same time, the addressing of Israel's legitimate security concerns. We also call on all parties to ensure unimpeded humanitarian access to Gaza, as required by international humanitarian law for national, local and international humanitarian organisations. In recent weeks, the energy crisis in the Gaza Strip has become particularly worrying. I would therefore like to stress that Israel must ensure that the civilian population can continue to use basic services. The Israeli authorities should enable the supply of electricity, but we would also like to point out the responsibility of the Palestinian Authority, which must take responsibility for the Palestinian citizens and the donor community. The Gaza Reconstruction Mechanism is not the problem, but rather the fact that the permitted quantities are too low and some goods are not allowed. In the document recently approved by Hamas, there is no recognition of Israel and no surrender of violence. This document also expressly rejects the Oslo agreements. So it doesn't change our position and our approach to Hamas. It remains a terrorist organization with which we do not maintain contact. However, we are in favour of a real contact between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. I have also heard in bilateral contact with President Trump that there may be an initiative by the US regarding direct contact between the two parties. That is a good solution, but we also advocate a certain role for the European Union as a member of the quartet. We have not yet seen this direct dialogue between the two parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u52	Minister, thank you for the answer and for your recognition of the fact that Gaza Reconstruction Mechanism does not actually contribute to the reconstruction and development of Gaza. The humanitarian situation there is worse than ever, 70% of the materials needed for the construction of water and sanitation infrastructure appear to be on the dual use list. I have the impression that Gaza is disappearing from the international agenda. I think that we should stop this and put the situation in Gaza clearly on the European political agenda again. There are dialogues in Europe about zone C, settlement and so on, but there is still a bit to be done with regard to Gaza. It is also up to Belgium to continue investing in humanitarian projects in Gaza. Political pressure must be exerted on Israel to put an end to the illegal blockade around Gaza. As far as Hamas is concerned, I would like to ask you the following. Is it possible for Belgium's diplomacy to have a functional policy rather than a political one, but a functional relationship with Hamas? Or with NGOs that are paid with Belgian money? If we want to develop in Gaza, we may need a functional contact with Hamas. What is the line of your diplomacy there?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u53	Hamas is on a list of the European Union as a terrorist organisation. You may ask for a functional contact with a terrorist organization, but as far as I am concerned, that is not so obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u54	It is certainly not obvious, but at the same time it is a political authority in Gaza.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u55	In another region with another authority, for example Daesh, I will not contact you functionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u56	It's a little hard. What is the situation in other European countries? How are they with Hamas? Do you know that? Do they have any functional contacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u57	Within the European Union, I think, the same reasoning applies. I have not seen direct contact with my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u58	Do you have more details on the possible initiative of Donald Trump? We have all read that he wants to go there for a breakthrough and make a big deal between Israel and Palestine. Any sign of that on the premises yet? Has anything been set in motion yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u59	Not yet, we're still waiting for a real initiative. I will send your positive message to Mr Trump.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u60	Mr President, it is true that we are talking about compensation. On 24 November 2016, the Court adopted the resolution on Belgium's support for a resumption of the peace process in the Middle East. My group also supported the resolution, partly because you were asked to ask, together with the European partners or, if necessary, only bilaterally with Israel, for compensation for the destruction of projects with Belgian funding. We're now six months later. I have the following questions for you. Firstly, have you found European partners to undertake a joint démarche with Israel in order to obtain compensation for the destruction? If so, who are these partners? What concrete steps has Belgium taken with these partners? If not, has Belgium itself contacted the Israeli authorities on the question of compensation or when will that happen? In any case, have you received any signals from the Israeli authorities about your intention to ask for compensation with European partners or, if necessary, only with European partners? Finally, there is a good chance that in Khan al-Ahmar, east of Jerusalem, a Belgian project with solar panels will soon be destroyed. Do you and your diplomacy anticipate any further destruction by Israel? Do you have a plan ready to respond appropriately in such a case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u61	Mr De Vriendt, our position on humanitarian aid in Zone C remains unchanged. Humanitarian interventions were carried out in accordance with international humanitarian law. The destruction in Zone C is therefore in breach of international humanitarian law and unacceptable. Together with my colleague, Minister De Croo, we have condemned this situation several times in the past. It is not our intention to change our attitude. We are particularly aware of the danger posed to the solar panels we have financed at Khan Al-Ahmar. These solar panels are, of course, not the only asset at risk, as more than 40 annihilation orders were issued. Both Belgium and the European Union ambassadors in Tel Aviv have already taken several steps. So we are trying to work preventively. The partners to which you refer in your question were in this case the EU ambassadors in Israel, as well as the EU Head of Delegation. I am therefore pleased to see that the European Union speaks with one voice, which also makes it stronger. The destructions at Khan Al-Ahmar have not yet been carried out, but the risk remains. We will therefore contact the authorities on the ground to discuss a preventive approach. Since the Resolution of the Chamber of November 2016, there have been no more destructions of goods or projects financed by Belgian Development Cooperation. We continue to consult with the European Member States in order to determine our attitude in the event of destruction in Khan Al-Ahmar. Regardless of this European consultation and condemnation, Belgium is also ready to take any bilateral steps if the projects financed by it were to be re-inflicted. In this case, the Rules 9 and 10 of the resolution of the Chamber of Representatives will certainly be taken into account. Since the resolution of the Chamber of November 2016, there have been no further destructions. This is perhaps the result of that resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u62	Mr Minister, the dialogue between Europe and Israel on the destruction in zone C, closed in September 2015, resulted in very little result. The dialogue was still and was then extended, although no results are actually visible on the ground. The European Union and the Member States concerned, including Belgium, would be entitled to financial compensation. No Member State has yet received compensation from Israel for the destruction of the infrastructure. I believe that, in accordance with the resolution, it should be an effective intention to put bilateral pressure on the Israeli Government. A concrete proposal to obtain effective compensation for destroyed projects is also needed. You say that you will be ready when, in the next few weeks or months, a destruction occurs. However, there are still the destructions that have been carried out in the past. This also requires bilateral compensation. We're not just gonna let them walk all over us, are we? It's a purely business conflict, not a political conflict. It is the most normal thing in the world to get back at least some of the money we have invested.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u63	Minister, the Minsk Group of the OSCE visited Nagorno-Karabakh at the end of March in the framework of the mediation process between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Recently there have been regular skirmishes on the so-called line or contact. The OSCE office in Erevan is also closed. At the moment, therefore, it does not look so favourable to the peace process. I have the following questions to ask you. What are the latest developments in that process? What are the causes and consequences for the peace process of the closure of the OSCE office in Erevan? What is the Minsk Group's assessment of a deadline for a possible solution to the problem in Nagorno-Karabakh?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u64	Since the heavy flare-up of violence in April last year, the situation has remained volatile along the stock line. After heavy skirmishes on 24 and 25 February last, there were once again skirmishes in the period between 15 and 17 May last. Both warring parties accuse each other of violations of the cease-fire. Azerbaijan hopes, however, that the continuing tension will also lead to an agreement on the return of the territory in exchange for peace, but the distrust on the Armenian side remains enormous. In the recent parliamentary elections in Armenia on 2 April, the ruling coalition, and in particular the Republican party of President Sargsyan, managed to retain its power, which was received by Azerbaijan as bad news. Sargsyan, himself from Nagorno-Karabakh, is considered a hardliner by the Azeri tribes. The Minsk Group continues to actively seek a solution, but the antagonism between the two countries makes it a particularly difficult task. Azerbaijan criticises the Minsk Group only to be interested in maintaining the status quo. On 28 April last, a trilateral meeting of the Foreign Ministers was held in Moscow, once again stating that the positions of the two countries are too far apart. The representative of the current Austrian OSCE Presidency, Ambassador Andrzej Kasprzyk, attended that meeting. A visit by co-chairmen France, Russia and the United States of the Minsk Group is scheduled for next month. The ongoing closure of the OSCE Office in Erevan is obviously bad news for both the peace process and for the OSCE assistance in supporting Armenian institutions to contribute to the dissemination of OSCE values. The controversy arose in a protest that, at the end of last year, Azerbaijan represented the humanitarian demining programme, supported by the OSCE Office, which would partly cover the disputed areas around Nagorno-Karabakh. At the request of the Austrian OSCE Presidency, Armenia was prepared to delete those programmes, but Azerbaijan also wanted Armenia to officially notify the participating countries of the OSCE. That turned out to be a turnoff for Armenia. The Austrian Presidency had sent former President Fischer to Erevan and Baku as the ultimate attempt to reach an agreement, but that mission did not lead to a breakthrough either. Unfortunately, in the current unfavourable economic situation, there seems to be little chance of achieving a breakthrough in the peace process. The increasing uncertainty and potential for a new escalation of violence are an additional incentive for the European Union, and therefore for Belgium, to support the Minks Group's efforts in the appropriate OSCE fora. However, the EU does not play a direct role in the mediation efforts, but fully supports the actions of the Minsk Group and in particular of Mr Herbert Salber, EU Special Representative for South Caucasus. Belgium is also trying to support the Minsk Group, for example on the occasion of occasional bilateral contacts with representatives of both countries. There is not so much positive news about possible progress in the situation between the two countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u65	Minister, I did not expect you to bring very positive news. The problem makes the operation of the OSCE extremely difficult due to the closure of offices in Erevan, but decisions are also constantly blocked. The financing of the OSCE is also under pressure. After all, the OSCE is a neutral and independent body and could make a huge contribution. We appreciate the support given to the Minsk Group and hope that you will continue to support the OSCE to this extent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u66	Minister, my questions are about the corruption scandal in Brazil and the Odebrecht scandal. Bribery scandals seem to be a normal thing in Brazil. The bribery scandal around Petrobras cost the presidency to Mrs. Dilma Rousseff. Recently, President Temer has also been targeted by an investigation into corruption surrounding the construction company Odebrecht. That company recently confessed to paying large amounts of bribes. Apparently, the affair is not limited to Brazil, but spreads over Latin America and countries such as Peru and Colombia are also mentioned in the scandal. Hence the following questions. What is the situation in Brazil according to information from your services? What is the government's position on this situation and on the position of President Temer, among others? Are Belgian companies mentioned in the scandal surrounding the construction company Odebrecht? What agreements exist between our country and Brazil on the exchange of information in the context of judicial investigations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u67	Madam President, as you may know, the Lava Jato corruption investigation in progress in Brazil has entered a new phase. At the request of the Federal Attorney General, a judge of the Supreme Court was charged with the file. This judge, Mr Edson Fachin, has opened an investigation into eight ministers of the current government, twenty senators including the President of the Senate, forty MPs including the President of the Chamber and several governors. The files of about 200 other persons were referred by the court concerned to lower courts, as those concerned no longer enjoy immunity. These include former presidents Fernando Henrique Cardoso, Dilma Rousseff and Luis Inacio Lula da Silva. This escalation is the result of the confessions made by the executives of the construction company Odebrecht in exchange for penalty reduction. These are allegations of corruption involving illegal campaign funding and money laundering. I would like to stress that the investigations have only just begun. Therefore, the persons have not yet been charged or convicted. On 17 May it was announced that the owner of the meat processing company JBS, Mr Batista, had a meeting with President Temer in March of this year in which the latter would have insisted on continuing to buy off the silence of former President Eduardo Cunha, who is currently in prison for Petrobras corruption scandals. Mr Batista also made a penalty reduction deal with the Justice Department. As part of the deal, he's working with the police to collect evidence. President Temer denied the allegations and stated that he would not quit. He asked the Supreme Court for access to the illegal recordings in his view and wanted a quick investigation. The revelations in the Odebrecht investigation also affect neighbouring countries, namely Peru and Colombia. As far as is known, no companies from our country are associated with the scandal. However, I would remind you once again of the principle of the separation of powers and the independence of the courts, as well as of the duty of restraint resulting from them. Out of respect for the separation of powers, and bearing in mind the independence of the Brazilian court, it is not for me, nor for the Belgian Government or the EU, to comment on ongoing investigations in Brazil and in other countries of the region. In my view, such investigations show that the rule of law is working in the countries concerned and that there is no impunity. Belgium will cooperate in the investigation if requested. The Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, signed at Brasilia on 7 May 2009, entered into force on 12 May 2017. In addition, our regular political consultations offer the opportunity to dialogue and provide information. These consultations are organised both at EU and Belgian level. So we will move on. At Brazil's request, it might be useful to do more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u69	Deputy Prime Minister, the international press today relayed information from Reuters, according to which Red Cross employees found 115 dead in the Central African city of Bangassou. In the past few days, Christian militiamen have reportedly attacked the Muslim community. That assessment would be four to five times higher than the one previously put forward by the United Nations and humanitarian organizations on the ground. The United Nations deplores the loss of six of its peacekeepers. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, despite the fact that we do not have an embassy in the Central African Republic, what information do you have? Are you aware of the presence of Belgian citizens in Bangassou? If so, are these people safe?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u70	Mr Flahaux, worrying information is coming to us about a further deterioration of the security situation in the Central African Republic. While the situation seems to be fairly stable in the capital Bangui, we see a resurgence of violence in other parts of the country, particularly in the area between Bria, Bambari and Bangassou, still under rebel control. On 8 May, armed groups actually launched attacks on MINUSCA peacekeepers in the village of Yogofongo, some 20 kilometres from Bangassou, the capital of Mbomou province. The attack on 8 May was followed by a second attack this time aimed at the civilian population and resulted in dozens of casualties. According to investigations conducted by the MINUSCA Human Rights Division, more than 121 civilians were killed between March and May 2017, not including the latest incidents in Bangassou, as well as six MINUSCA military personnel. With no embassy in Bangui, it is through our embassy in Yaoundé in Cameroon that Belgium continues to monitor the situation in the Central African Republic, through contacts with our honorary consul on the spot but also with Belgian soldiers participating in the EUTM mission. According to our embassy, there are currently no Belgians and almost no expatriates in the Bangassou area. Even humanitarian NGO teams have withdrawn from this area. The Peacebuilding Commission in New York had recently devoted several sessions to the situation in the Central African Republic. Belgium intervened to worry about developments in the security and humanitarian situation and to take further action so that the regular armed forces could occupy the ground and monitor the situation, in close cooperation with EUTM and MINUSCA. It will be very difficult to move forward on demobilization, transitional justice and State missions as long as armed groups occupy the ground. We also express our support for the various mediation initiatives carried out in consultation with the United Nations, whether carried out by the African Union or at the initiative of the Catholic Community of Sant'Egidio, which led to the signing of an agreement with the armed groups on 19 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u71	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. It is a particularly difficult area, close to Nigeria and Mali. Some Islamist communities are trying to push their advantage in a country as weak and fragile as the Central African Republic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic695x.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed that we would continue until 6 p.m., so I will close the committee meeting with this one.
