ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u1	It's time, we'll start the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u2	Madam Chair, colleagues from other parties and the majority have asked me to see if there is a predetermined organization over an hour, on a question number. For me, everything is good. On the limit, it's none of my business.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u3	Let people move a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u4	I told them I'd tell them if there was...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u5	Questions before item 109 will be transformed into written questions. We will not postpone them. For the rest, we will go as far as possible, because there are constantly additional questions. Going to the finish is obviously complicated. The last time, the minister was there to the end, and it was the parliamentarians who were no longer there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u6	Madam President, Minister, physiotherapists have undertaken, under the national agreement with insurers, to take into account the personal contribution to the beneficiary of the increased intervention who receives the paying third party, in at least 85% of the benefits attested by him. The agreement also provides that "if the insurers find at the end of the monitoring procedure that the physiotherapist is not complying with this undertaking, the agreement shall be automatically cancelled". I have this whole convention here. With this measure, physiotherapists are in a way prevented from offering free care to patients living in a very precarious situation. It is true that this can be damaging because it may deprive some particularly vulnerable people of the care they need. Minister, what is the average percentage of benefits for which physiotherapists decide not to take into account the recipient's personal share? Are there any significant differences in this percentage on the territory of Belgium? If I ask the question, it is because, in my region, the physiotherapists actually asked me directly, saying that for them, it was really problematic and that they were indeed asking for a removal of this threshold. Is there any trend or worsening of this percentage in recent years? Could you tell me if there are physiotherapists who do not respect this percentage of at least 85%? Has this number changed in recent years? Could you tell me if there are any physiotherapists who have been punished for non-compliance with this percentage? Do you have any thoughts on this 85% percentage? What justifies this percentage? Do you not think that there is a mismatch between this percentage and this criterion in the face of very different socio-economic realities between the Regions and, beyond that, between the subregions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u7	Mrs Fonck, first of all, I would like to make it clear that the commitment of contracted physiotherapists to receive the beneficiary's share in at least 85% of the certified benefits does not concern only the beneficiaries of the increased intervention or the third-party payer, but all patients. In this context, physiotherapists cannot distinguish between beneficiaries, either on the basis of the insurer to which they are affiliated or on the basis of the type of benefit. The procedure described in the National Convention for the fulfilment of this commitment provides for the collection of data on a possible relationship between the lack of systematic perception of the personal share and a significant average of benefits per beneficiary. As indicated in this procedure, this data will be collected by insurers, not by INAMI. In this context, the information requested cannot be provided by him. Since the establishment of this rate, no physiotherapist has been punished for an infringement of this rule. As a result, no agreement was cancelled with respect to a practitioner. The requirement to collect 85% of the user ticket responds to a request from representatives of Axxon, the only professional organization recognized as representative of physiotherapists. It was they who asked to establish this percentage during the negotiations in the Commission of physiotherapist-insurer organizations agreements, which resulted in the 2013-2014 national convention. Until then, this rate had been set at 70%. The increase was approved after consideration by the representatives of the insurers. This rate remained unchanged in the convention which covered the years 2015 and 2016. The motivation of physiotherapists was inspired by the fact that, in a context of insufficient fees, the moderator ticket is an integral part of them. Despite intensive negotiations that have been under way since last October, no convention covers the physiotherapy sector at the moment. In 2003, 2001 data from mutualities had been analysed. The lack of perception concerned mainly patients with so-called "heavy" pathologies and just over 1,500 physiotherapists. They had been informed by mail that their profile would be followed, as well as the risk of punishment. However, no physiotherapist was punished at the time. The main reason for this was the complexity of the situation, as the treaty text provided that, in relation to this non-perception, the measurable social characteristics of the physiotherapist's patientel could be taken into account. A second analysis by the InterMutualist Agency had then shown a marked decrease in the non-perception of the moderator ticket. This seemed to indicate that the previous measures had had an impact. INAMI cannot give us figures for facts that are not in its possession. You have to ask the AIM.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you. I'll point out several elements anyway. I hear you don't have figures and I'll ask the AIM. That being said, I understand that this has been negotiated, discussed with and accepted by Axxon's kines. However, let us recognize that this body is overly and preferentially a representative of Dutch speakers. The socio-economic reality is different. You're telling me there was no sanction. I can tell you, however, that checks have been carried out on kines. I live in a region where GDP is particularly low. Several kines sound alarmed because they actually end up with 50% of patients living below the poverty line, who are BIM. I follow the example given to me, because a small calculation was made by a kine. He is obliged to demand payment from 85% of them. It is a reality of the terrain that many kines meet, in function, it is true, of different geographical realities, and I hear that very well. But I think this is a problem. Indeed, the realities are so different depending on the regions that we find ourselves with shortcomings in management, and therefore with a real problem of access to physiotherapy in some regions, because we live there with patients with a very high percentage living below the poverty line. I would like to appeal to you to address this issue again. You may want to ask for figures from the region, sub-region and borough at the level of the intermutualist college, so that a reflection can be undertaken on this point. Indeed, when a patient is not treated, it is worse after. It is our duty to be attentive to access to care for fragile patients. This is a request from the kines directly; I thank you for hearing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u9	That is indeed important. The solution will not be found here, but in the framework of the ongoing consultation with the AIM and the kines. I would point out that we also met with kines who are not part of Axxon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u10	Thank you and ask you to pay attention to this very different socio-economic reality, to the reality of patients and kines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u11	Madam Chair, Minister, I would like to ask two questions that I will try to globalize. As you know, exudative macular degeneration is a disease that essentially affects, if not exclusively, the elderly, which is becoming more and more frequent and which strongly affects the vision of reading. Treatment has existed for several years and consists of injections into the eye of an anti-vascular endothelium growth factor, which is a regulator of neoangiogenesis. For many patients, it is necessary to give one injection per month, in each eye, for several months and sometimes even for several years. Lucentis from Novartis, which costs a thousand euros per dose, is almost always injected, whereas there is a similar molecule (Avastin) which costs only 40 euros, or 25 times less. This molecule is not reimbursed, nor even allowed as a first intention. I know a little about the history of these products and you will certainly answer that Avastin has not been asked for this indication, but I think that when budgetary issues are so important for patients and for the state, it would be necessary, together with the professionals concerned, the ophthalmologists and the Federal Medicines Agency, to consider how to proactively encourage this product, which is much cheaper, to be used in this indication. On the other hand, the aspect of the implementation of this treatment raises a series of questions since in order to benefit from the reimbursement of these injections, the ophthalmologist had to prove the need, through an examination called OCT, carried out several times and which is not reimbursed. Who will fund this review? Either the patient has to pay for this examination, however mandatory, or the ophthalmologist offers it to the patient free of charge, but the cost of the device amounts to 50,000 euros. On the other hand, I find that the total number of injections, whose cost of the product is 1,000 euros, has become unlimited, whereas until now it has been 36 injections per eye and the act of injecting is only reimbursed for the first time when it is performed in the operating room, in sterile situations, which is a significant cost. Minister, how do you explain the lack of funding for the device, when it is a mandatory component, the cost of which can unfortunately be deferred to the patient? This raises a question of accessibility for the patient. Why this change in the total number of injections allowed, unlike the act? How can an unlimited refund be justified in relation to a limited refund?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u12	As you know, Mrs. Fonck, I am aware of this problem. An in-depth consultation with representatives of ophthalmologists and experts from INAMI and AFMPS has already taken place. Currently, two anti-vascular endothelial grow factor (anti-VEGF) medicinal products are reimbursed for the treatment of exudative macular degeneration (DMLA): Lucentis and Eylea. Unfortunately, DMLA is not included in the registered indications of Avastin. Firms responsible for marketing proprietary medicinal products have the exclusive right to register an indication for a specialty for which they are responsible. To date, the firm responsible for marketing Avastin has not shown any interest in registering the indication of the treatment of AMD. Furthermore, unlike Lucentis and Eylea, the current formulations of Avastin are not at all suitable for the appropriate dosage for the treatment of the disease in question. Before administering it, Avastin should be prepared in a suitable formulation under conditions that ensure the sterility of the product to be administered. In order to solve the problem, I took the initiative to enter into a contract with the Novartis and Bayer companies, which led to a substantial reduction in the real cost of Lucentis and Eylea for health insurance to an acceptable level. In addition, the conclusion of this contract extended the repayment of Eylea and Lucentis to all their registered indications and removed the limitation on the duration of the repayment, which was apparently a maximum of three years. With regard to your second oral question, both the examination by optical coherence stomography (OCT) and intravitral injections of anti-VEGF are currently being treated in the INAMI Surgery Working Group. Proposals in this area are expected to reach the Insurance Committee in the coming weeks. In other words, one can expect a code of nomenclature for the examination by the OCT and a refund. This is already stated in the 2016–2017 National Agreement on Medicine-Mutualism and I quote: "In the course of 2017, resources will be made available through a reorganization and control of expenditure on OCT, coronarography and ultrasound or other services, which will be used for the economically efficient financing of OCT technology based on economic analysis of health and an analysis of needs." This is being developed within the INAMI Surgery Working Group. As regards the medical procedure for intravitreal injections, the number is limited to 8 for the first year, 6 for the second year and 4 for the following years. This amounts to 30 benefits in the first six years. Currently, a proposal by professional associations of ophthalmologists is on the negotiating table of the Surgery Working Group to increase the number to 34 in the first six years. The aim is to broaden the period and the number of possible treatments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u13	Minister, I have two thoughts. Firstly, with regard to the second part on the OCT and the acts as such, it is true that my questions have already been tabled a few months ago and, since then, things have clearly begun to move. All the better and, of course, wait for the conclusions of this working group in consultation with the ophthalmologists! But you must have known that at that time, the ophthalmologists had asked me directly with a whole series of questions. Then, with regard to the second part on anti-VEGF, I can hear what you're telling me. Today, it is indeed an exclusive right of pharmaceutical companies, but I think that, when there is an issue at this important point, both for patients and for social security and the health care budget in particular, it will be necessary, some day or another, to discuss a space which could give, in a form of obligation, a Cadré right, marked but, in any case, a lever at the level of the State. The example of anti-VEGF goes back years and is particularly challenging and unacceptable. At some point, arrangements can be made between each other, because, ultimately, no one is moving because these arrangements are suitable for each other. I therefore believe, Madam Minister, that we will have to change our regulations in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u14	I would like to remind you, because it seems necessary to me, that there are many questions on the agenda and that the Rules of Procedure provide for a limited time for both the question, the answer and the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u15	Madam President, Minister, I will not recall the many events related to health and environmental issues, such as hazardous waste, pesticides and material issues. This jurisdiction is obviously not only federal but is shared by the different levels of power. This is why strategies need to be coordinated, and probably better coordinated, to be more effective. In my view, the actors in the field should also be involved in this work. I am told that there has been little mention of this at the level of public health. My questions in this regard are therefore as follows. What themes were discussed in 2014, 2015 and 2016 at the Interdepartmental Conference (IMC) on Environment and Health? What are the results of this work? As a federal minister, what themes have you put on the ICD agenda? What topics do you intend to include in the future? Are there any consultations with federated entities on environmental health? How? In what form? What conclusions have been reached in this regard? If they haven't been, are you going to put these different questions on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u16	Mr. President, Minister, according to two new World Health Organization (WHO) reports, more than a quarter of deaths of children under five years of age are caused by environmental pollution. Every year, environmental risks (pollution of indoor and outdoor air, passive smoking, unsafe water, lack of sanitation, inadequate hygiene) result in the deaths of more than 1.5 million children under the age of five. Beyond "traditional" dangers such as pollution of the atmosphere, water, lack of sanitation or vector-borne diseases, such as malaria, which have long been identified in developing regions, there are new "emerging" environmental hazards associated with global industrial activity, such as exposure to pollutants, electrical and electronic waste, and climate change. To address these dangers, the WHO suggests the framework for the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in January 2016. The last two WHO reports stress that reducing indoor and outdoor pollution, improving water quality, improving public health, including in parturient health facilities, protecting pregnant women from passive smoking and ensuring a healthier environment, can effectively prevent infant mortality and diseases affecting young children. Minister, in this context and in order to put an end to preventable deaths of newborns and children under five years of age by 2030, what progress has been made in this area in Belgium? What initiatives have been put in place to follow up on these new recommendations, particularly in relation to emerging hazards? Is an action plan between the different levels of power already in place in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u17	Mrs Fonck, it is clear that coordination on this subject is essential and is done in full cooperation with my counterpart, the Minister of the Environment. Since 2014, the Interdepartmental Environment-Health Conference has dealt with several issues: first, the establishment of surveillance of exotic mosquitoes that carry tropical diseases, such as the Zika virus, or other vectors, such as ticks. The exotic mosquito monitoring project is due to start this year for three years. At the end of this period, a nationally consistent monitoring network will have to be operational and information and decision-making processes established. Belgium's participation in the European Biomonitoring Programme, which starts this year, is one of the issues addressed by the Interministerial Conference, as well as the development of modules for continuing training in environmental health for health professionals, which will also be carried out this year. There is also participation in the latest WHO measurement campaign on persistent organic pollutants in breast milk, the report of which will be available shortly. The federal plan Strong heats and peaks of ozone decided following the 6th reform of the state was published on 17 May 2016, after consultation with the entities involved. These various projects are monitored continuously by the national unit, which meets several times a year and exchanges very regularly by e-mail. Beyond these projects, there are working groups and ad hoc issues. The National Cell is currently preparing for the next WHO Europe Interministerial Conference on Environment and Health, to be held in Ostrava in June. In this context, a new operational programme will be developed thereafter, taking into account the priorities of WHO and partners. The second National Environment Health Action Plan is being evaluated; on the basis of the findings of this evaluation and of the WHO Interministerial Conference on Health and Environment in June and the specific needs of Belgium, a third plan will be drawn up at the end of this year. It is clear that the implementation of the projects and the proper functioning of the above-mentioned working groups can only be achieved if the National Environment Health Action Plan itself functions properly, as well as the good cooperation between ministers and administrations of the various levels of authority. Mr Blanchart, infant mortality throughout the world mainly concerns non-OECD countries. Indeed, especially within the European Union, we are implementing environmental policies that have already largely reduced this mortality. With regard to drinking water in Belgium, the three regions guarantee a very high level of quality of the distribution water, but also bathing water or surface water in general under the relevant European directives. The pollution of outdoor air is indeed problematic. They are mainly related to polluting emissions from transport, particularly diesel vehicles. That's why the government has decided to put an end to the advantage of the diesel pump. In terms of indoor pollution, mortality worldwide is mainly due to smoke emissions in homes. Belgium has specific legislation for heating appliances and solid fuels. In our country, these fumes are mainly due to ventilation defects, defective or poorly maintained appliances. We also have legislation on building materials applied since 2015 to floor coverings. This legislation will be progressively extended to other types of coatings. Finally, with regard to endocrine disruptors, it is true that a European definition within the framework of the regulation for biocides and plant protection products has been overdue since 2012. I can only reiterate the call for a clear definition that allows the authorities to control risks and implement proportionate measures, taking into account the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u18	Minister, thank you for the different answers. I have heard the themes and projects on which work has been carried out. There are, of course, many other issues that should involve health authorities in relation to the environmental health strategy. I think we are lukewarm in Belgium on this strategy. We should be better, more proactive, more coordinated, more effective. I consider this to be a major issue with a medium- and long-term impact on health, the importance of which is not yet known. Minister, I will re-examine you on a regular basis on the basis of the projects, but I call for a more proactive and ambitious approach. That seems indispensable to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u19	Madam President, I am quite in line with my colleague. If, indeed, we are spared from the problems of drinking water, we must put the iron on the aspects that affect us in particular. But as far as the environment is concerned, I agree with my colleague, in the sense that there is indeed a great deal of action to be taken. This is becoming more and more urgent. This is obviously not just about our country. Real coordination at the departmental level is essential, and I think it is up to the Minister of Health to sound an alarm at the various findings that have been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u20	Madam President, my question has been tabled for several months. To get to the point, minister, you remember that there was a report from the KCE in 2010 that clearly recommended systematic screening for cystic fibrosis in all newborns with a series of conditions that I will not repeat here. Since then, I have interrogated you several times. There were several steps. On March 21, 2016, there was an agreement between the federated entities and the federal authority to move forward in this direction. Technical work was then carried out by different groups. In practice, where are we today? The working groups were not only set up and worked, but in my opinion they had to give birth, and the nine months were probably well overrun. What are their conclusions? When will this systematic screening be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u21	Madam President, Minister, you indicated last summer that you are moving forward on the goal of introducing a systematic neonatal screening for cystic fibrosis in newborns. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. You also told us that from September 2016 several technical working groups were going to comment on their work and put this project into practice. Can you tell us what progress has been made in this area? What follow-up has been given to this file since then? These groups were also asked to investigate whether other diseases should be tested for neonatal diseases, identify the related tests and budget charges. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u22	The various working groups examining the technical modalities for the implementation of the prevention protocol began in September 2016. In this context, a technical working group has been set up to deal with the problem of screening for newborns. The objective of this working group is, among other things, to identify possible additional diseases for screening, such as haemoglobinopathy and dysosomal overload diseases such as cystic fibrosis, and to propose the test to be used by giving arguments for and against, as well as budgetary implications. Priority has been given to research related to the screening of cystic fibrosis. The working group met four times and the first result is an update on the screening of newborns in the Communities and Regions, which was discussed in the Intercabinet Working Group on Chronic Diseases and Prevention last December and February 2017. The Working Group's proposals for screening for cystic fibrosis are expected in the coming weeks and will be submitted to the Intercabinet Working Group Chronic Diseases and Prevention. The main objective is to move towards consensus on screening and diagnostic tests, and on the algorithm by which these tests will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u23	Madam Minister, thank you. The KCE's opinion dates back to 2010, while the agreement between the federal authority and the federated entities dates from 21 March 2016. It's 2017. I'm afraid we're still going round for a while. That is why I would like to insist that we should be able to give birth and reach an agreement not only on procedures, but also on the financial side. This will allow routine screening to begin quickly. This is a true public health strategy. Moreover, as I always point out, it is always more expensive for the State to make a later diagnosis in children, to the extent that investments will be necessary, whereas preventive care would avoid severe complications. That would therefore be any benefit to the State budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u24	I am not the one to be convinced, Mrs Fonck, but I did not ask for the acceleration of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u25	Donc, your vous attends.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u26	One more month!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u27	Madam Minister, I obviously agree with my colleague's remarks. I am sincerely pleased that you are concerned about this issue. When lung infections become scalable, it makes the situation particularly stressful. The sooner these diseases are managed, the less complicated they are to be treated. You both know that, since you're doctors. Many countries have introduced screening: Australia, New Zealand, the United States, Canada, France, the Netherlands, Great Britain. I thank you, Minister, for moving forward on this vital issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u28	We support you in the rapid processing of this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u29	Question No 15783 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u30	Madam Minister, the press has relayed information contained in a memorandum sent by members and former anonymous members of Herstal's medical home, which details very problematic practices. For example, data from patients cared for by medical homes run by the association "Medicine for the People" would be used, inter alia, for political purposes by members of the PTB. Have you been aware of this situation, minister? What do you intend to deal with this violation of our legislation respecting the privacy and ethics of physicians? Have you been in contact with the Order of Physicians about this unacceptable situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u31	Like you, I read this information in the press. If these facts are proven, this would indeed be a serious violation of the protection of the personal data of patients, punishable by criminal penalties, as well as a serious ethical error in the head of the doctors who would have committed it. In addition, I am studying with my administrations, the SPF Santé publique and INAMI what judicial follow-up should be given to this information. I will keep you informed of the outcome of this case. The College of Physicians has told me that they will not be able to make a decision until there is a conviction or a judicial act. We are currently examining what can be done within the Public Health FPS and INAMI, the two administrative bodies competent to defend patients in this type of case, in terms of respect for privacy and also the ethics of doctors working in this medical home. I also answered a question from Mr Hedebouw on this matter. Is this ethically normal? So things are going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u32	Thank you, Minister. If the facts are proven, it is totally unacceptable. It is gravissimistic and I think that given the elements that go back to the ground, it is an investigation that absolutely must be carried out. So it's up to you to launch an investigation to clarify this. I think there are many medical homes that do very good work, that have no such practice. And these practices in some medical homes used for political purposes cast reproach on all medical homes and ultimately cast doubt in the minds of patients. I can only encourage you to initiate an investigation so that all the clarity can be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u33	Minister, this is obviously not the first time that I have asked you about this issue of the double cohort, which is likely to become a problem for the main stakeholders, in this case the young doctors who will begin their training next year. The stakes are also that they can find a place of quality. In addition, there is an organizational problem due to a lack of places. This question is based on three pillars: the available volume of traineeships, the maintenance of the quality of vocational training and adequate funding. When I questioned you, you brought me some information. If we look at the current situation, the deans of the faculties of UCL, ULB and ULg – and I have no doubt that those of the north of the country are also very concerned, given the contacts I have been able to establish – have just called on the Prime Minister. Indeed, the June 2018 deadline is approaching. More than 1,800 young doctors will complete their studies by that date and then choose their specialization. Beyond the measures you have already taken, one of the nodes of this catastrophic situation is the insufficient amount of internships, but also the funding that needs to be secured. Madam Minister, we are at the foot of the wall. How will we move forward towards greater efficiency and to avoid dramatic situations in this area by 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u34	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked questions about the problem. My question is once again a question of the state of play. I also ask my question to go a little deeper into a few options that are now on the table. The Planning Committee has, not so recently, made a quantitative prediction of the effects of the double cohort. It was based on the current state of play, but taking into account the most favourable circumstances, namely that students would also adapt their specialisations according to available placements and that the Communities would function as communicating vessels in the event of a shortage of placements in one Community and a surplus in the other Community. According to their calculation, there would be about 1 500 internships too short. I don't want to spread too much about these communicating vessels, but you can imagine that I think it's a communicating vessel in one direction. The deficits in Wallonia are a lot larger than in Flanders, given that the quotas have not been taken into account in Wallonia, but the current inflow which has not yet taken place without an entry test. You have already taken some steps to increase the capacity of internships. There was an increase in the budget and there was also the relaxation of the recognition conditions for internships. It's not an easy exercise either. Nevertheless, it is important to bear in mind that it is not just about a figure but that the quality of training must also be maintained. There is already a certain increase in the number of places available. However, according to the Planning Committee's investigation, the deficit would appear to be visible in 2017 for at least one third of the specialities and in 2018 for two thirds of the specialities. On top of that, the general practitioners in training will also have to spend six months in hospital for which the necessary places in the hospitals will have to be provided. Madam Secretary, my questions to you are the following. To what extent are the measures you have announced already visible today or to what extent do they already have an impact on the analysis carried out by the Planning Committee? What additional measures are still in the pipeline? The High Council of Medical Specialists and GPs calls, among other things, for an increase in the number of doctors in training per training place. Do you think that this is a viable map, albeit with due regard for the quality of training? A national survey of doctors-specialists in training has revealed the extent to which they are accompanied by doctors other than their own internships. The VASO therefore also advocates the recognition of internship services that can act as a central training centre. How do you feel about that? I have heard of other slopes, such as the opt-out principle, which would reduce the number of hours of compulsory internship. I have also heard from students that in this context they fear that only the interesting work at those hours would disappear and that they will remain with a relatively larger administrative block. If one could assure that this is not the case, it would not be such a bad option. I'd like to hear from you first what's still in the pipeline.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u35	Madam Chair, Minister, the Interuniversity Committee of Medical Students (ICUM) is concerned about the future of medical students who will complete their basic training in June 2018. Indeed, that year, following the reduction in the duration of studies from seven to six years, which came into force in 2012, we will have to deal with a double cohort representing some 2,000 students in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation who will then have to choose a route of specialization. The problem is that, due to lack of financial resources in particular, there will not be enough quality internship places for all these students in the process of specialization. This situation is all the more unacceptable given that the problem has been known for years and that, until now, nothing concrete has been undertaken to prepare for the arrival of this double cohort. Minister, what initiatives have been developed to ensure the future of these students and to address this issue? When will concrete measures finally be put on the table? Do you continue to discuss with federated entities as well as with university and student representatives in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u36	Minister, I am not going to repeat the findings since they have been made. I refer to the leads that you mentioned when we discussed the 2017 budget. You have sought advice from the Superior Council of Specialists and General Practitioners. You propose, for specialist doctors, to relax the requirements vis-à-vis trainee teachers (in number of years of experience, participation in research, publications, etc.).). For applicants, you plan to expand to extra-mural internships, strengthen research and support internships abroad. In addition, for general practitioners, you were planning to reduce the share of internships to be carried out in hospital settings. You said there was a legal analysis of this possibility. I wanted to ask you about developments in this area, but also about the proposals made in particular by the Belgian Group of Omnipratists (GBO) with regard to general practitioners. According to the GBO, there are internships that it would be interesting to follow and take advantage of the dual cohort situation to experiment with them. This refers to internships in places where there are specific approaches, namely places where drug addiction is monitored, family planning (contraception, abortions), places of research in general medicine, environmental medicine, ONE, etc. Minister, how do you look at these different avenues? How do you view the programming of their funding while knowing that this double cohort will exist for one year and that the following year it will no longer exist? It is therefore necessary to consider an increasing budget and a falling budget, which requires a reflection on the organization of internships. I would also like to ask you a more specific question about the additional budget of ten million that you planned in 2016 for internships in non-university hospitals? Do you intend to make this structural measure in order to broaden the possibilities of internships?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u37	Madam President, I note that Mrs Muylle is not present. This is not the first time this has happened. Shortening the duration of medical studies results in a double cohort of graduate students in 2018, which will have an impact for the entire duration of the professional training of this cohort. This ranges from three to six years, depending on the specialties. You are quoting a report from the September 2016 planning cell in which the estimated number of internship places was 1,500. But an updated study has found a substantial increase in new approved internship places, and thus in compliance, since July 2017. We would still need 900 places in the French Community and 300 places in the Flemish Community, a total of about 1,200 places. This can of course be explained by the fact that too many students have always been trained on the Walloon side. As a result, we are now faced with a greater shortage of places. A continuous increase in new approved internship places is desirable and possible. In this context, however, care must be taken not to maintain a certain overcapacity and to preserve the quality of the traineeships. On this last point, I share the view of the Higher Council of Specialist Physicians and General Practitioners adopted this year. Several legal provisions have already been made more flexible in order to facilitate the approval of internship places. For example, the ministerial decree of 23 April 2014 was amended in order to reduce the required seniority of trainee teachers from eight to five years and that of their collaborators from five to three years. At the same time, the functioning of the training teams for the follow-up of candidates has been strengthened. This is a global figure, which does not rule out that some specialties face greater challenges than others. The analyses are based on historical distributions of specialization choices, but it is very likely that applicants will move more towards future courses, where a shortage of specialists is reported, and to specializations that offer vocational training and internship places. The policy cell has already had several constructive consultations with the deans of the faculties of medicine. A new consultation is planned to examine, together with the deans, the internship capacity as a whole but also by sub-specialism. The aim is to develop an integrated inventory of placements across all training networks. Consultation also takes place with the professional federations of doctors. As regards the additional funding for the training of doctors-specialists, the 2016 Medicomut indeed provided for a sum of EUR 10 million, but the partners have not yet been able to distribute this amount. I would also like to ask what the role of insurance institutions can be in professional training. In December 2016, I sent a new request for advice to the Conseil Supérieur des Médecins Specialists et des Médecins Generalistes with several concrete proposals. The aim is to identify criteria that can be relaxed without jeopardising the content of the training. In the meantime, there are also useful contacts with the representatives of the students and the doctors in training, in particular the VASO, the VGSO, CIUM and FEV. At my request, these organisations were also heard at a meeting of the Supreme Court of Medical and Medical Experts on 23 February. I intend to continue to involve these representatives closely in the discussions on the issue of internship capacity and on professional traineeships in general. The recommendation of double cohort of the Supreme Court has now been validated, on 23 March last. I'll give you the elements in it. As far as general medical practice is concerned, efforts should be made to increase the number of students who opt for this training, in view of the penuria. A particular problem is that, together with the double cohort, the internship duration for general practitioners is increased from two to three years and that a hospital placement is provided for six months. In view of the coincidence of these new professional training requirements, further research is also needed to avoid the hospitalisation stage becoming, as it were, a bottleneck in the training, which hinders the final recognition of the candidates. We must also ensure that there is no competition between candidate specialists and general practitioners for these hospital placements, which will not be improved by either group. It will therefore be examined whether a transitional arrangement could be developed in the Ministerial Decision of 1 March 2010 on the recognition standards for general practitioners. This transitional arrangement must be in accordance with the European regulatory framework. On the French-speaking side, reference is made to the shortage of training places for general practitioners, particularly in hospitals, and the need for a solution. As far as specialists are concerned, there has been a significant increase in the capacity of internship services in recent years. This will be further mapped out and it will be examined whether the placements can be effectively taken. Other instruments to absorb the double cohort include the reduction of working time during training to 48 hours. Forty-eight hours, that will not only be for administration, but we will certainly have to include them in the necessary skills. If we want to monitor quality, I believe this is necessary. European regulations also provide for the possibility of part-time traineeships. At present, Belgian regulations only provide for full-time traineeships. Within a number of specializations, however, there is a demand for part-time internships, but of course accompanied by a pro rata extension of the overall internship period, which is also important. The Ministerial Decision of 23 April 2014 on the general recognition of doctors-specialists, internship services and internship masters provides, in addition to the regular knowledge placement services, so-called specific internship services. In these internship services, a candidate may acquire, within a maximum period of six months, a certain competence which is not immediately part of the pathology or healthcare portfolio in other regular internship services. These specific traineeships may constitute an additional capacity. It looks at how it can be recognised effectively for the sequential training of multiple candidates instead of the current model, with a notification to the FPS as recognition for the training of a doctor. Finally, there is also the influx into placements of foreign doctors from the European Community, including in the context of Article 145 of the Health Care Occupations Act. There is also an important influx into training places of doctors from outside the European Union for special training, with visa waiver, as provided for in Article 146 of the said Act. The government is examining the slopes in order to limit this influx, so that capacity is available for the Belgian doctors in training and at the same time there are better guarantees for the quality of the internships in general. An additional problem is that there are in fact more foreign doctors in the francofon part participating in these traineeships than in the Dutch part. That's the reality. It was interesting, at one time, for universities to have foreign trainees. Today, we are faced with such a situation that one third of the trainees are foreigners. This prevents our students from having access to free places.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u38	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u39	Yes, we're putting it in place. It's not easy. The deans are doing everything in their power to find solutions, but these must be in line with European regulations. I remind you, it's a gift I inherited! You have to say it! We have already invested a lot of energy (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u40	I do not think it is for students to suffer from previous decisions made by some people, who are not students.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u41	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, when we passed the law that increased the number of years of medicine from seven to six years, I said that it was irresponsible to pass this law without having a guarantee for internships in view of this double exit. Unfortunately, I fear that we are in this situation. Yet a few years have passed since then. The stakes are twofold. Yes, we must guarantee an internship for every young doctor and maintain quality. That's very clear! I hear that some legal provisions have been relaxed. Obviously, they are insufficient. This is reflected in the appeal of the Deans and the Inter-University Committee of Medical Students. Minister, you did not address the important part of the funding. We're gonna have to pay for these assistants. However, the hospital budget has been seriously cut by the government. It also remains a knot that no one is trying to unravel. I would like to end with a comment on the comments about the excess number on the francophone side and the arrival of foreign doctors, etc. The reality in which we are today is also that of a shortage of doctors in certain parts of the country and for certain specialties, of a shortage well identified by the Planning Commission – and not by the policies – and therefore objectified. The reality of all these years is that just over 35% of new doctors have come from abroad and obtained an INAMI number, but if they have arrived at our home, it is also because we continue to organize the shortage and we have created a real organized system of calling abroad. These elements are also put on the Planning Commission's table. I hope, this time, that the government will not take decisions on a political basis but on an objective basis to respond to the reality of this shortage and to put an end to the vicious circle that has been set up by policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u42	I wasn't gonna get mad today... Mrs Fonck, I am not really intelligent... It may be more disappointing than I have always thought, but you have to explain to me, for God's sake, how the existing deficit in Wallonia in certain sub-specialities and areas of Community competence has anything to do with the quotas that have been set and which you have never taken into account. It will be up to me, but I do not understand the reasoning. You have never had quotas, you have never had a filter, you have never had an upper limit, yet there is a shortage. And now you're putting that deficit on the fact that there is an upper limit when there isn't one. You should try to explain that to me sometime, because I don't understand. It's very simple. There is a surplus in Wallonia, all of which has already been very scientifically defined, and a deficit in certain sub-specialities and areas. Do something about it. You'll have to deal with that in the French community government. Stop always confusing those two files, because that doesn't make any sense. Apart from that, as far as the double cohort is concerned, I am glad that a lot of steps are being taken and that everything is being investigated, but it is really five after twelve. That is indeed not only your responsibility, Madam Minister, but it is five after twelve. You yourself have said this a few times in the past: that double cohort actually offers a momentum to fill certain deficits in the specialities, but of course... If one is forced to do so as a student only in the final phase of the choice, then that is also a pity. We have to push things in the right direction in time, I think. You have put forward a lot of ideas, which you rightly say need to be examined at European level. I think you are talking about shortening the training of general medical practitioners. You can see if the hospital placement can be brought in in any other way. Of course, I don't know how long it takes to check something like this at European level. These are perhaps issues that we will not have an answer to tomorrow. The opt-out seems to me to be worth a focus, but in itself it is not a bad idea to suggest it as an idea, as long as it can be ensured that enough clinical skills can be built up. You also mentioned a part-time internship. In the end, of course, one has to do a longer internship. I assume that this remains a choice, that it will not be imposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u43	Not everywhere, not in all specialties that's possible. It was said by the people at the table that it would be an option for some. Of course, then, there is the problem that we will have to do this part-time internship for a longer period. Then there's an extension of the training for those people. That has to be looked at. If it's half-time, the period will extend by half. That's a problem, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u44	That is indeed not less, if that is the result.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u45	Madam Minister, it seems to me that you are saying, with regard to the 2016 supplementary budget for internships outside university hospitals, that partnerships have not yet been allocated and that it is therefore not known whether this budget allocation will be renewed in other years. That is, in any case, what I understand of your answer. I didn't hear you on the alternative internship paths, proposed in particular by the GBO, but perhaps also by other doctors' unions. You talked about specific internships for medical specialists. Personally, I found interesting the proposals, which for me would be worth both generalists and future specialists, to carry out internships in places where there is a need for doctors, but which are linked to the concrete life on the ground, such as the places of care, accompaniment or prevention that I mentioned in my question. With regard to the budget for the support of the dual cohort of general practitioners, I did not have any information either. Does that mean that this is not planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u46	It's already planned for research. The number of students that can be attributed in research for a few years or for a year or two is variable. It's already planned. This does not give us many opportunities to double the cohort again. For others, we still have to take into account... You're talking about other internships, but the training is still important. There's no time to waste. They also have academic work to do. We really must first try to organize internships in university hospitals, as planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u47	However, part-time work is being considered; there are plans to abolish internships in hospitals for general practitioners. I think it may be worth thinking about alternatives, such as services in other places. It will of course be necessary to ensure that they are accompanied in their training.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u48	I close this point, because Mr Blanchart had to leave us before he could reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u49	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, I am updating my question, because it goes back several months. If I wanted to come back to the matter with you, it is because there is clearly a very strong protest from the doctors represented by their various unions, given the unilateral savings that had been imposed, the non-respect of the word given, the non-compliance with the agreement that has been reached with the government. It was therefore absolutely not surprising that the representatives of the doctors responded. The breach of trust, we can say, was total. Today, we are, without having done it on purpose, in the middle of the news because yesterday you entered into a "mini-agreement". You'll allow me to call him that. Maybe the point on the basis of this "mini-agreement". Madam Minister, I would like you to make very clear commitments here on how this agreement will be respected, whose work will continue with a consultation that is not bogus or a facade. Trust must really be restored with caregivers and, in particular, doctors. I hear these commitments, Madam Minister, that you are taking them here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u50	Madam Secretary, these questions have long become obsolete. I'll put my two questions together. Meanwhile, there would be a mini-agreement between the RIZIV and the doctors. But how will that agreement evolve? What's in it for the patient? To what extent does the patient have the assurance that doctors will comply with the agreement? What will happen until the end of the mini-agreement? Is the government still making efforts to reach a broader, more accurate and, above all, more secure agreement with the doctors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u51	I won't repeat the whole history. The agreement was terminated after the discussions of the 2017 budget. There has been a clock stop, which has suspended the further negotiations. I went to the National Commission on Doctors-Sickness Funds on 24 February 2017. On 24 February, the National Medical-Mutualist Commission took note of the Government's response. The latter is willing to engage in this consultation on various points mentioned in the letter and has asked the committee to prepare this consultation in depth. The various partners in the committee will cooperate constructively. A few weeks were needed for such consultation. The committee would like to know more quickly about two points: firstly, the adaptation of several legal and regulatory provisions within the government has been discussed. The committee insists on the relevant texts as well as the approval procedure scheduled for the end of March 2017. Finally, the committee also wanted the General Council of the RIZIV, in which the government is also represented, to express its views on the relationship between the agreements and agreements agreed with the budget and the budgetary imperatives. A meeting of the General Council took place on 13 March 2017. There was a constructive discussion. Last Monday evening, as always, the National Commission on Doctors-Sickness Funds met. Except when I was there, it was a Friday night before the holidays. They obtained a new agreement until the end of 2017. Why does the agreement run until the end of 2017? The agreement was intended for two years, namely 2016-2017. Negotiations for a new agreement for 2018 should begin in October. That is why the term has been shortened and we call it a mini-agreement, from 27 March to the end of 2017. There is therefore tariff security until the end of 2017, Ms Jiroflée. I seem to have missed your tweet. The mini-agreement is now also being submitted to the doctors. As always, they must decide whether they want to endorse the agreement negotiated by their representatives. This text will be presented in April and we will know how many doctors join the agreement. It goes without saying that doctors who do so can retain their social status. That's quite a twist. In the meantime, as agreed, we will continue to deal with the points raised by both parties in the Medicomut. That will be difficult discussions. I'm not under any illusions about that. There is a desire to continue to negotiate all those matters that are important to one or the other. We will continue after the clock stop and the last difficult meetings. All in all, we can speak of a favourable turn of events. A number of discussions can be speeded up. I'm glad that's how it turned out. It's not an end point yet. All parties have put matters on the agenda and it will not be easy to reach an agreement. But what is important is that the medico-mutualist agreement guarantees a stable rate for patients. I was also able to observe that mutualities and doctors' representatives were still happy to have this mini-agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u52	Minister, in the total breach of trust in which we were in, this mini-agreement has two positive points. The first is to reopen the door to consultation and, above all, to commit ourselves to maintaining our valuable model of consultation. The second is the issue of ensuring patient tariff security. That being said, the doctors, I tell you from the outset, are waiting for you at the turn of the day. They're not the only ones. There are also all health professionals. The commitments you have made can no longer be denied as you have done in the last two years. They are waiting for you at the turn of the day on a series of issues: reform of hospital financing, hospital networks, practical first line, front line as regards the guards and general practitioners, group practice, the medical-infirmary tandem, the whole revision of royal decree 78 since the law of May 2015. These are just a few examples where they must be truly and concretely associated and concerted and obviously not mutually agreed in an incidental way. This is an opportunity to reopen positive perspectives. I hope the government will stand there this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u53	Madam President, I find it strange that the Minister for Health is talking about a whole twist. As far as I'm concerned, the uncertainty remains. We have to wait and see if the doctors will accept the agreement. Even if they accept it for that short period, it remains a mini-agreement. We cannot get rid of the impression, Madam Secretary, that everything has to do with the austerity you impose on the sector, especially on the doctors. The atmosphere of consultation you describe should have been created much earlier. I am convinced that the uncertainty remains and that there is a great responsibility for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u54	Question No 15790 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u55	Madam President, Minister, an audit of the duty stations of general practitioners began in April 2016. Almost a year later, it seems to me that it is time to question you in order to take stock. Minister, are the final results already available? They were planned for the end of 2016. I left you three months. I hope you will tell me that these final results are known. I would like to know the content, the outline and the main recommendations. In your policy note, you said you wanted to move forward on a "uniform and readable conceptual and organizational framework for all". I confess that I have read this five times without a clear understanding of what it meant. I would now like us to be clear. You also mentioned a "renewed funding framework". Normally, it should have been operational this year. What are the working arrangements of the Posts of Custody Group within INAMI? I would also like to know what consultations you have conducted. I had some contact with the representatives. Obviously, these representatives did not have contact with you on this audit. In any case, until recently, they had not yet received the conclusions. With regard to a mini-agreement with doctors, I would remind you that this is also part of the consultation process. What cooperation has this dossier really benefited from?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u56	Ms Fonck, first of all, I would like to point out that the final results of the audit of the general medical duty stations were presented to me on February 13, 2017. It is true that the final phase and the completion of the audit resulted in additional delays. I stress that in particular the preparation and organisation of the focus groups, the analysis of the results and their integration into the overall results called for further efforts by the audit team. The concept of the focus groups was implemented in consultation with the regional child care coordinators and their practical organisation. This phase of consultation and exchange with the guard stations was a crucial element of the audit and justified the addition of additional time. Now we're analyzing the final results of the audit. Once this is done, my staff and INAMI officials will set out the strategy for formulating proposals to amend the funding framework. As regards the financing of the week shift, I refer to point 4.1.4.5. of the medical-mutualist agreement of 22 December, which is very clear in this respect. At the same time, the proposal is made to reorient the fee system available to general practitioners from 2017, as part of an analysis of the financing of the continuity of primary care at night and night, both on weekdays and on weekends, where appropriate, in a shift. I note that the Working Party on Custody of the National Medical-Mutualist Commission has already begun preparatory work for the implementation of this item. The working group was established by the National Medical-Mutualist Commission. General practitioners are represented in the group which makes proposals to the Commission. It is therefore very clear that the working framework of the group is determined in the first place by the provisions of the medical-mutualist agreement. Since the beginning of 2016, a representative of my strategic unit has been attending meetings with a view to a coordinated development of the overall policy on the organisation of non-programmable care. With regard to the deployment of 1733 at the national level, the new general practitioners' circles and the new guard areas will be able to join the system from autumn 2017. As you know, calls to 1733 will be handled at power stations 112. There is already a regulation that guarantees the processing of calls in four languages, i.e. the three languages of our country and English.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u57	Training is provided for this purpose by the operators. Since this is not yet fully implemented in the field, we recently concluded with the Verviers guard post that calls in German in 1733 would be diverted to their guard post. In the meantime, employees are trained to handle these calls correctly in the language of the caller.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u58	Minister, I'm still a little hungry. You just received the conclusions. It would be nice to have a debate on this subject, and to have a look at it in committee. A little more time is a bit boring, but it is not serious, provided that constructive, positive and concerted solutions are reached with the field. You know how important this issue of guard stations is, including in areas in short supply in certain regions, where guards are extremely complex to carry out for general practitioners. You know how crucial this issue is. I hope that you will consult with the general practitioners and involve them in the discussions in the coming weeks, so that this issue can be successfully concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u59	Mr. Benoît Friart is absent. As he had no news, his question No 15794 was struck out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u60	Madam Secretary, this is a short question about the Geel-Herentals ambulance. Within the fire zone in the Kempen there is a plan to get that ambulance from Geel to Herentals, but it is said that you are still waiting for your approval. Those plans have been dragging on for a while and that creates uncertainty. Firefighters then quit to attend specific training courses, for example for ambulance workers. This also feeds on the fear that the fire zones will in the long term repel all their ambulances. I am simply asking for clarification in this particular case and in general, so that firefighters can adapt. Specifically for Herentals: when will that ambulance be transferred from Yellow to Herentals?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u61	Mrs Van Camp, you will understand that I cannot comment on an individual dossier such as that of the Geel-Herentals ambulance. I must refer you to the competent provincial committee for urgent medical care. As soon as he gives me an argumented file with her advice, I can only take this. There is indeed a reform coming up on urgent medical assistance. We have a ready proposal, together with the other competent minister, the Minister for the Interior. Let me outline some of the main lines of that reform. Some of the ambulance services, the non-public services, have an agreement with the government, while the public services have not done so for historical reasons. The provincial committees for urgent medical assistance have the organisation and supervision of the services within their remit, but supervision and control of services with which no agreement has been concluded is not evident. This must also be changed by subjecting each service to an agreement and quality requirements. Does the reform affect resources, recognition and organisation of resources? Yes, today we see that there are 426 ambulances in departure places because they are historically placed there, because they are called up a lot. However, some are called up much less, while others are almost not. Then it is mainly those ambulances that are in order as a second or third party. Simulations have shown that about 350 ambulances are necessary to reach the intended service level, provided that they are well distributed across the territory and that all of these services are manned or manned at their departure point and are not dependent on callable men. This is also supplemented by some 50 PITs, if I am not mistaken. There is therefore an efficiency exercise. As far as driving times are concerned, no service level has been defined in the urgent medical assistance to date. Today we make 15 minutes for 88 % of the interventions that are taking place. It is necessary to bring this standard to fifteen minutes for 90% of interventions. That is why a number of interventions are needed. There are areas where it systematically takes too long for an ambulance to reach the patient, in other words not within 15 minutes. We are now in consultation with the Home Secretary's cabinet. Then there must be IKWVENS with the other departments. We have also made a calculation of the means to be used step by step. Then the dossier will come to the government's table to see what the budgetary picture is for investment. I believe that it is an important reform in which we have ensured throughout the country in a very thorough way that all our citizens can receive an ambulance for urgent medical care within 15 minutes. So people and resources will also be handled more efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u62	Madam President, Minister, I understand that there will not be an immediate decision on this particular case. This is particularly reflected in the global exercise, which has yet to be completed between you and the relevant Minister for the Interior. I'll keep an eye on the file at that level. I will say back that the solution will not be for the next few weeks or months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u63	Madam President, Minister, this too is a short question. I've interviewed you before about the HPV vaccination and about the vaccination against Zona. In your reply at the time, you referred to the advice of the Supreme Health Council, which you were waiting to see if the HPV vaccination could be applied in boys and idem ditto before vaccination against zona. Madam Secretary, is there any clarity yet? Are the HPV vaccine for boys and the zona vaccine in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u64	Madam President, Minister, Papillomavirus or HPV is responsible for uterine cancer, which is why it is recommended that women be vaccinated before the beginning of their sexual life to protect them. However, this virus, considered a STD, is transmitted between men and women. It is also transmitted between male partners in homosexual relations. It can cause cancer of the anus or throat, as well as women elsewhere depending on their sexual practices. Also, in some countries, it is envisaged that homosexuals will be vaccinated to protect them from this risk. Minister, is this approach being considered in Belgium? It is also mentioned by some doctors, the usefulness of vaccinating heterosexual men, as they are vectors of contamination during sexual intercourse. In their view, this would compensate women for insufficient vaccination. Those who are opposed to this approach explain that the male mentality which is a bad fit for this kind of constraint would make it difficult to carry out an effective vaccination campaign. They object to the fact that it is enough to vaccinate one third of the population to see contamination disappear. If all women were vaccinated, the problem would be solved. This would also allow medico-economic efficiency to be maintained, which must be in charge of any care policy. Except that, as indicated above, depending on the sexual practices adopted, cancer can start at the level of both the anus and the throat. Furthermore, since sexuality was a shared act, protection measures should also be shared. Madam Minister, what is the status of the vaccination rate for women in Belgium? Is it enough to cause a decrease or even a disappearance of papillomavirus in Belgium? Do you think that a vaccination policy of both sexes would be relevant in our country? Would the cost of this be of health and financial benefit, since a vaccine is always less expensive than the treatment of cancer? Do you intend to do this? What is the approach to these issues in the Council of European Ministers of Health? Is a common policy to combat papillomavirus and its consequences under development? Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u65	You know there are three working groups in the High Health Council's lap. As regards vaccination against chickenpox in children, the opinion has now been finalised by the competent working group. The Supreme Health Council will soon publish a publication on this issue. A second working group is still working on the availability of zona vaccines for 50+. A third working group indeed takes care of vaccination against the human papilloma virus in boys. The latter has not yet completed its work. The Supreme Health Council hopes to have the advice ready by the summer. Pending this scientific decision, the demand for HPV vaccinations in boys was now included in the research programme of the Knowledge Centre in order to also understand the cost-effectiveness of such a measure. The start of this study is scheduled for early July. In response to Mr Flahaux's questions, I recall the various vaccination programmes against HPV: - free vaccination of girls in the first secondary year in Flanders, introduced since the school year 2010-2011; - free vaccination of girls in the second secondary year in Wallonia, introduced since the school year 2011-2012; - partially reimbursed vaccination of girls aged 12 to 15 years since 2007 and girls aged 12 to 18 years since 2008 throughout Belgium, upon request. These vaccination programmes are the result of several memoranda of understanding on prevention, concluded successively during the period from 8 December to 21 March between the Federal State and the federated entities. These are programs that the federal government pays a third. Flanders has a high vaccination rate among girls in the first secondary level, between 85 and 90 per cent for the two or three doses in 2016. In Wallonia, the rate is much lower, 29% for the period 2012 to 2013. There is still work to be done at this level. As a result of the reform of the State, there is no record of vaccination against HPV incorporating all sources of information, since each federated entity - they are independent of each other - has competence in this area. However, it can be said that the vaccination rate in Wallonia is one third of that in Flanders. You should ask your colleagues who are elected to other assemblies to put this item on the agenda, so that the young girls of Wallonia are also protected. As you said, it starts with an infection. Vaccination is a lesser evil. First of all, you have to take the problem from the source, from the girls.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u66	In this context, I would like to point out that la suite often involves costs that are incurred for the federal treasury, whereas it is, in fact, a result of a Walloon policy that is completely behind and, I think, immoral. If one sees that a vaccine is available for such a thing and Flanders is using it and paying it back, why is Wallonia not doing its part? I can only once again call for a division of social security so that everyone does their part, but also pays for the consequences. With regard to the working group, I wonder why it is taking so long. I remember asking that question in 2015, two years ago. Then you expected the results in the second half of that year. It is strange that this has been delayed for two years. I wonder why. I look forward to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u67	Minister, I fully agree with you. As far as Mrs Van Camp is concerned, although I like her for the rest, I do not agree with her conclusion. Indeed, its reasoning leads to the division of social security. However, it is necessary to reverse the situation. Why? Because the young Flemish girls and the young Walloon men or the other way around have - I imagine! - sex together, unless we build a wall that would prevent any relationship between them! It makes sense to me that even an independent Flanders would not want to leave the European Union or become an island. This risk will always exist. Therefore, I can only plead - Mrs Fonck is the political friend of the Minister of Health in Wallonia...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u68	We're still talking about me!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u69	I hope you'll plead for us to put the turbo in Wallonia. In this area, as in the issue of roads, progress is not very fast in the Walloon Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u70	Madam President, I can tell Mr Flahaux that love knows no Community borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u71	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u72	No borders at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u73	From now on, things will change.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u74	Madam Minister, this question concerns a dossier that I have been following for a long time. You refer to a working group set up in 2013 or 2014 and operating since 2014. Recent figures, in response to a written question on this subject, show a rapid increase in the scale of the problem. I would therefore like to know what is going on with the working group. If I may be a little disrespectful and with all due respect for your work, after three years, only a hotline has come out of the bus, leaking like a sieve. We have been able to see this very clearly in practice and this has also been supported by a study by the University of Antwerp. When exactly are policy improvements implemented to ensure that stock breaches are properly recorded, with the type and cause of them, so that a distinction can be made between deficits of a voluntary and involuntary nature, and that stock breaches can be prevented and addressed if they are motivated by profit? You also replied that you don't keep track of the types of medication that are involved. That seems very important to me, in addition to identifying the cause. In your answer, you say that a cause should indeed be indicated in the medication shortages, but more than half of the answers to the cause demand is "other," "there is a medication shortage" or "new tickets not yet available," which means that there is a shortage. However, that does not say anything about the cause. I also note that the N-VA has both a legislative proposal and a proposal for a resolution on this issue, and we hope that you will be able to support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u75	Mrs Van Camp, I have already referred in previous answers to your questions to the task force on the unavailability of medicines, a working group set up to seek solutions to ever new problems, if there is a stock problem. One of the initiatives is to establish a trigger-based decision tree, which should allow measures to be taken in case of unavailability to minimise the negative impact on patients. Since then, the decision tree has also been further developed. The aim is to continue this work so that it becomes a useful tool in the field. This means looking at what is not there, what is the alternative and where one can go, every time for everything that is possible. In addition, a communication platform is being considered, to which all interested parties in the sector can send reports of inaccessibility. That information shall be validated and monitored by the responsible firm, which shall transmit the unavailability, if applicable, to a unique hotline. The possibility of implementing the communication platform is still under investigation. The results of this analysis are also very soon to be discussed with the representatives of the pharmaceutical companies. The working group meets at very regular intervals to develop these and other initiatives with the aim of finding a solution to stock problems, but also to take a number of preventive measures to prevent stock problems, a problem which is not only a Belgian but also a European and even a global one. The aim is to ensure the correct registration of stock breaches through the communication platform. Negotiations with the parties concerned are also under way. We have set the deadline for this at the end of this year. All drug stock problems are recorded in the database. In that database is a link between the medicines and the class to which they belong. No statistics are currently being kept on the type of medicinal products that are unavailable. In the context of the work on the communication platform, it is being examined whether such information can also be documented in a simple way, so that we can see the evolution of the problem. A solution is also sought in the FAGG. This is the subject of communication with all relevant actors, especially with wholesalers and pharmacies. So our system is working. You say there are more incidents. There are also increasing numbers of medicines on the market. The stocks at the wholesale trade are also less large than before. That's true in the pharmacies. It depends on daily deliveries. Sometimes temporary stocks from abroad are also brought here. We are really trying to minimise the difficulties in the field for the patient. Nevertheless, it remains a complex matter, also because of European legislation. After all, one cannot just bring similar medication from the other side of the world here. There has to be an EC approval for this. EMA should also be enabled to do so. So at European level, too, we are looking at the problems of the stock breach. We will not, of course, wait for that, because things are going much slower there. Maybe the EEA will have to move again. That may also be a problem in the coming months or years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u76	I welcome the fact that a number of measures have been taken and that you recognise that this is going to be fairly slow, both at federal and at European level. I am also pleased with your intention to continue to do so. Let my legislative proposal and motion for a resolution on this be a reason to speed up work. I am counting on your support and on the support of my fellow Members to tackle the problem. It is, of course, a good thing that the pharmacist is being accompanied in providing alternatives, but in fact such deficits, especially if they are motivated by profit-seeking, should not be allowed to happen today. What you are saying is certainly correct: both wholesalers and marketing authorisation holders must be included in the bathtub. Our proposals provide for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u77	Question No 15866 by Mr Jan Spooren is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u78	Madam Chair, in fact, I have tabled two questions, because the first was tabled several months ago. So I updated it. If you don't mind, I'll put them down at once. Minister, we have asked you a number of questions on this issue. As you know, it has a different approach between the South and the North of the country. In the North, it is an act performed by physiotherapists, occupational therapists or logopedes. In the South, it is a competence specific to psychomotricians and training in higher education that has existed since 1980, with, in recent years, a training of paramedical bachelor in psychomotricity (bac+3) that corresponds to European references in this field. In Switzerland or France too, psychomotorism is, in fact, a specific paramedical competence. You refused to recognize psychomotorism as a paramedical profession. This leaves thousands of students, graduates, practitioners, who are in a state of uncertainty and whose professional future is completely challenged. Minister, the situation is extremely difficult, as they cannot engage in the professional activity that was theirs or that corresponds to their training. May I ask you to enter into a consultation with your fellow ministers of public health in our neighbouring countries, such as, for example, the French Minister of Health, so that there can be a validation of the diplomas obtained in Belgium and to allow our students to work abroad, particularly in France where – I would remind you – this is a specific competence? On the other hand, I would like, once again, to question you about your refusal to recognize psychomotorism. You have always considered it totally unacceptable that the French Community has decided to organise training without your permission. However, I note that, with regard to the mondzorgassistent, on 20 March last you issued a royal decree to the Moniteur, aimed at adding oral care to the list of practices designated as paramedical professions, whereas this training of mondzorgassistent was created long before the publication of this royal decree. In other words, you accept in the north of the country what you do not accept in the south. Minister, I have no problem with the recognition of the formation of mondzorassitent. In my opinion, this is, in fact, a very good thing. But I ask you to reconsider your copy. Although the training already existed on the francophone side, I note that it is possible to recognize it, today, as a paramedical profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u79	Madam Chair, Minister, I have two questions that I would like to summarize as some of the points have already been raised by my colleague, Mrs Fonck. In the debate on non-recognition of psychomotorism as a paramedical profession, you have often felt that it was not logical for training to be launched before the profession was recognised. After having done some quick research, it seems that the trainings in physiotherapy, occupational therapy, logopedia or podology were in each case launched long before the profession was recognized. This, moreover, seems to me to be quite logical since these training courses have met some of the needs of the population at some point. Madam Minister, why are you systematically making this argument when the reality has been quite different for many other professions and when psychomotor training was introduced in the 1960s already? In addition, following the request for recognition of the psychomotricians, a simple letter was sent to them in order to inform them of your decision. No administrative act, and therefore no formal reasons, must be issued in case of refusal of recognition on your part. A simple letter was sent to the applicants. This de facto prevents any application for suspension before the Council of State. Do you not consider it necessary to put in place a system allowing an effective remedy and the right of access to the judge in case of a negative decision? Also in the context of this non-recognition as a profession, a decision based on a single negative opinion of the National Council of Paramedical Professionals, I note, as Mrs Fonck alluded to it, that since the end of 2012, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation had empowered several high schools to organize curricula and to issue bachelor's degrees in psychomotority. My group has already asked you about this issue. This decision deprives hundreds of students and graduates of any prospect of exercising their profession in a therapeutic setting. An application for interim measures has also been brought in this respect. According to the National Council of Paramedical Professions, it appears that psychomotorism is already part of the basic training of doctors, occupational therapists, logopedes, speech therapists and physiotherapists. Therefore, only these professionals could perform psychomotor intervention. Minister, actions that can be performed by care professionals are usually included in a task repository, with a list of technical services that can be performed. Today it appears that the situation and functional training for the development, recovery or preservation of psychomotor functions appears only in the AR of 8 July 1996 relating to the occupational therapist profession. Psychomotority is not included in the acts and performances of speech therapists and logopeds. Do you confirm that? How do you explain, therefore, that the performance of psychomotor intervention is recognised in these two professions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u80	Minister, my question is based on a research that I, along with others, have done on the definition of psychomotorism in our home and in other countries where it is taught. The high schools organizing this training define the psychomotrician by "his psycho-corporeal availability and his commitment both body and psychic in his relationship with the patient, with whom he will share emotions and sensations through the tonic-emotional dialogue. This particular relationship, based on the two-way movement, aims to build body experiments aimed at establishing or restoring the somato-psychic bond of the patient." They use the term "patient" because it is from this perspective that these trainings are envisaged. Recent international studies highlight the effectiveness of psychomotorism, particularly in policies to combat obesity and, as I was surprised, against faecal incontinence. A whole series of recent studies show the value of this discipline. In Switzerland, the functions of psychomotorism are the detection of psychomotor disorders, the assessment and analysis of abilities and difficulties, the establishment of a therapeutic project, the organization and administration of therapy sessions and the proposal and organization of family and parental guidance. In the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, psychomotorism concerns treatment and intellectual impairment, personality disorders and the rehabilitation of psychomotor development disorders. In France, such care is considered on the basis of a therapeutic relationship. The same applies to the United States, Australia and the United Kingdom. Minister, my questions are independent of the ongoing legal action. Have you investigated the specifics of psychomotorism and existing training in Belgium and abroad? Are you familiar with studies on health care effectiveness? I've mentioned two of them about obesity and fecal incontinence. Have they been integrated into your thinking? How do you explain that in other countries the therapeutic specificity of psychomotorism is recognised, whereas in Belgium it would not be possible to recognise this discipline as a paramedical profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer you to my answers to the many questions on psychomotorism that have already been asked to me. There is no difference in approach between North and South regarding the definition of therapeutic psychomotority. The legislation on the exercise of health professions is federal and equally applicable across the country. As you mentioned – this is the case both in the North and in the South of the country – since the 1980s, there have been complementary training for health professionals who want to be more competent in the use of this technique. But only the French Community considered it useful to introduce, in 2012, a specific baccalaureate in psychomotorism for people wishing to practice this technique in the field of educational well-being and development, especially for children and persons with disabilities. It is not correct to say that there would be a European consensus for the creation of a full profession, a discipline that would cover both the therapeutic and non-therapeutic fields. Rather, it is a particular vision for some countries, such as France and Switzerland. The other countries do not share this vision. I have not started discussions with my colleagues from other countries on the possible bilateral recognition of such a profession, because none of them has asked me to do so. On the other hand, my administration responded to my French counterpart when some questions were asked. I hope that students coming from countries like France will learn enough, before starting a training course in Belgium, why it is so easy to take this training at home while in France an entry examination is planned. The number of places in this country has been severely limited. With regard to Mr Frédéric's question, I can inform you that the opinion of the Federal Council of Paramedical Professions is duly motivated and available to the public. In addition, if you wish and consider it relevant, you may request to consult additional documents as part of the administration's advertising. Some also went to the Court of First Instance of Liège, with a request for a preliminary ruling by the Constitutional Court on unequal treatment. State counsel informed me that this request was declared inadmissible by the President of the Court of First Instance. In essence, even if the urgency is recognized, the president held that "the question referred for a preliminary ruling concerns the illegality of the infringement, which punishes an exercise of the art of healing without belonging to a recognized profession. This offence is clearly defined and sanctioned by law." By empowering the King to draw up a list of recognized professions, the legislator gives him, at first glance, a simple role of execution. The principle of legality is therefore, at first glance, safeguarded. There is no serious doubt as to the compatibility of the disputed law with the Constitution or the applicable norms of international law. No reference should be made to the question referred for a preliminary ruling by the applicants. The same reasoning on the equality of the infringement makes it possible to reject the request for the finding of such illegality and as regards the finding of the various errors alleged by the plaintiffs, it falls to the substantive judge, who will eventually be seized. The plaintiffs appear, moreover, to draw no particular conclusion which should result from the formation of the said errors. Mrs Fonck, I must also tell you that there is a great difference between the route followed for the recognition of the mondzorgassistenten and between the tasks of the latter and those of the psychomotricians. For the mondzorgassistenten, the opinions were positive. In the case of psychomotricians, the 2013 opinion requested by Ms Onkelinx was negative. The one I asked for was even more so. The two opinions are not the same. You will find that the second is very explicitly against the recognition of the profession of psychomotrician, as a paramedical profession. I think I had no choice but to say that it was not possible to make recognition. If I have said that I am sorry that this training started in 2012 and that it was actually given a negative opinion by the Paramedical Board in 2013, then I fear that a lot of students were misled. They were assured that it would be all right, but that is not the case, because the second opinion was very negative. I invite you to read this. I'm not going to read it to you myself, because that's what I'm being addressed to. I didn't draft that advice, but I have to respect it. Moreover, Mrs Onkelinx also knew that the recognition of such a profession would be of short duration, especially in view of that negative opinion. It would not take two weeks for a legal action to be launched and there would be even more uncertainty for the students. The training is therefore not suitable for inclusion in the law on the exercise of the health professions. Of course, the schools and the institutions of this training are free to provide the training. Moreover, we have had their curriculum examined by our services to see if a switch to another profession is still possible, provided that additional training is provided. However, this does not seem to be as simple as it should be for a further two years of additional training. This too is a difficult decision for the students. I do not understand any possible legal action in this file, but I cannot recognise a profession as a health care profession if two consecutive negative opinions were provided. This has nothing to do with an opinion on the North or the South. There's more than ten in the pipeline. On the basis of objective criteria, it will be examined whether there is a need for a particular profession in the law on the exercise of health care professions. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u82	Madam Minister, if I use the comparison with the North, with the "mondzorgassistent", which I am in favour of, it is because, on several occasions, you have invoked – in writing, I have copies of your answers – the fact that this could only happen before the formation was actually created. So I have to see that there are two things to do. On the one hand, your refusal, on the basis of this argument and, on the other, the authorization you gave in Flanders, when the training had begun long before. You're poaching. I think you are making a mistake, when there is a solution that would allow us to take into account the reality of different practices in our country, with a double recognition, both that of the competence that can be exercised by the kine, the occupational therapist, the logopede, and that of a paramedical discipline as such. I can only regret your position, Madam Minister. To rob yourself in this way is to consider students and graduates who already exercise as less than nothing. In addition, you have not answered me – except that you have not been asked – about other European countries. There, you really make the minimum minimorum in relation to this file. I therefore ask you to engage at least with France in order to achieve a compensatory measure and to validate the training, which will allow these young graduates, these students or those already practising in the field, to go to France or elsewhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u83	I thank the minister for her response. We are still at the same point: there are hundreds of students who have this training and who will not be able to exercise. Mrs Fonck is right to say that many training courses in kine, ergo, logo, podology were launched long before these professions were recognized. So the excuse you're giving is not good. You're quoting the judicial route. We will wait, Madam Minister. I trust justice. I welcome the decision of last week's Constitutional Court on the Psychotherapist Act. I hope that, in this case too, there will be decisions that will go in the direction of those people who have invested time and money hoping to be able to practise a profession that they cannot currently practise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u84	Minister, I introduced a written question several months ago to ask which health professions were recognized only after training, in order to be able to take this chronology into account. I still haven't received the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u85	I told you, at the firm we're writing the answer when the administration provided us with the information. When we do not have this response from the administration, we try to answer for ourselves. But the administration sometimes tells us that they don't have time to look for this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u86	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u87	In my commission, there is a diarrhea of questions. And the administration already has a lot to do and can no longer follow and answer questions on time. It's a problem that's frustrating for us, and for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u88	Minister, what I wanted to say is that if there is recognition of a health profession and then only, training, the answer would be simple. So there would be no recognition until the training started. If the answer is slow, it is because it is not at all obvious to find recognised professions prior to training. And that makes sense. Things are changing; training is changing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u89	You know that for this to happen, you have to contact the federated entities to get the answers of the teaching. Education is not a federal jurisdiction. You also have to ask the federated entities, Mrs Gerkens, you know that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u90	I think it's bad faith to say that you first had to recognize the profession before you could imagine training and that it's always been like that. Reality shows it's not like that. This is normal since things are changing and when we are changing, we are changing training and creating new professions. That's where the bastard hurts. The Grand Duchy, which recognizes psychomotricians, appreciates the training given in Belgium. International studies highlight the interest of psychomotority in a range of health issues, such as obesity and faecal incontinence, and are also to be taken into account. The Committee on Paramedical Professions has not paid sufficient attention to what is happening elsewhere and to the evolution of these different practices. I would like him to be led to open his eyes, to look at what is happening elsewhere, to look at the content of the training and to take a better position than in previous opinions. I think you can give a boost to this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u91	Minister, there are a lot of health issues. Like you, I feel sorry for the administration. The majority of the questions you are asked are political questions. Answer the questions and don't send them to the administration! I think that, indeed, the administration will not be under pressure and will not be subjected to this diarrhea of issues which must be resolved by the firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u92	I can still say that these questions are not sent to the administration. Do you think we're going to pass on the political issues to the administration? This has never been done!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u93	Why, in this case, do you say that the administration is under pressure because of our questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u94	I'm not a beginner! Don't tell me you don't have to send those questions! I see. It's not a reproach. The administration notes and everyone notes that there is a diarrhea of questions in my committee. That's the case!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u95	There are indeed many questions in the Committee on Health. This has always been the case, as there are many questions in the courts. In the Conference of Presidents, since I was a Member of Parliament, the number of important issues in health, justice and infrastructure has always been highlighted. This is characteristic of these subjects, but it means that we have to meet regularly to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u96	Minister, I have already asked you about the recognition of clinical hypnosis practitioners. You then told me that for you, it is not based on any scientific basis. It is up to me from the Directorate of Algology and Palliative Care at CHU Liège, a leading centre in this field, that hypnosis technology has been used for more than 25 years to help patients manage acute pain during invasive gestures, intensive care and emergencies, dental care, delivery, etc. This technique has also become an anaesthetic method called "hypnosedation" and can replace general anaesthesia for certain types of surgery. Hypnosis is also proposed as an apprenticeship to be used in chronic pain problems. Many studies have also been published in national and international scientific journals, with 'impact factor', where you can find the interest, effectiveness and even cost-benefit analysis of this technique. In light of these complementary information, could your perspective on this practice change? You have stated that hypnosis should not be considered a "medical or health discipline within the meaning of our legislation" but according to the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health care professions and according to the law of 22 August 2002 on the rights of the patient, health care refers to all "services provided by a professional practitioner (...) with a view to promoting, determining, maintaining, restoring or improving the health of the patient", without restriction. What are the reasons why hypnosis as described does not seem likely to be so qualified? Finally, you also mentioned that "no advisory body (...) has issued an opinion on this matter". Do you therefore intend to seek such an opinion in order to have full knowledge of field practices, their results and possibly to be able to take initiatives in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u97	Mr Blanchart, in my answer to your previous question on the subject, I replied that hypnosis was not a health discipline in its own right in the sense that our legislation on the problem meant it. However, in accordance with the principle of therapeutic freedom, this technique may be used by a recognised health professional, provided that it does so within the framework of his or her competence and that this technique is of interest to the patient. I also indicated to you that no Council or advisory body has yet considered the question of the exercise of hypnotherapy by the health professions. It is my responsibility that the health professionals concerned by it - including mental health specialists - already know their usefulness and act within the legal framework imposed on them. As you know, I want to promote the therapeutic techniques that are evidently based. In this regard, I will refer the issue of the use of hypnosis in health care to the Higher Health Council for its consideration and possible framework. But we are talking well about his practice by health professionals. I will not fail to pass on to the Supreme Council of Health all the information you have provided us through your two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u98	Minister, thank you for taking this hypnosis seriously. The aim of the Liège Centre is to regulate training in hypnosis technology, so that professionals (doctors, psychologists, dentists, etc.) It is only in practice, and they can do so only after proper, high-quality and recognised training. We are pursuing the legitimate objective of avoiding abuses that could cause harm to patients if they use the services of someone who does not have the required qualifications – and we are really joining. Therefore, we hope that this information will allow you to pay more attention to this globally recognized technique. Not only does it have a low cost, but it also empowers the patient to be an actor in the care provided to him. Moreover, it empowers and empowers it when a health and biochronic problem changes its quality of life. Ultimately, hypnosis is an ecological and economic approach. I'm talking about it because, personally, I practiced hypnosis in the difficult passages of my life that you know. Honestly, this technique has helped me a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u99	Madam President, Minister, this too is an older question. I refer here to a study by the KCE, which examined a number of studies carried out for an operation. A number of studies appear to be useful, but some appear to be tending towards overconsumption. I am thinking of chest X-rays, an example often cited in the context of overconsumption in medical imaging. A number of tests are performed by default for each operation. The CCE adopted a new directive that can reduce this overconsumption. It saves the patient time, effort and especially exposure to harmful rays. My questions on this are as follows. Will you follow the new RCE directive? How and when will you inform healthcare providers about this? Are you also thinking of financial incentives, for example within hospital funding, to reduce over-consumption of medical imaging? You have already given a number of examples of this. Do you have any idea of the possible savings that this could entail? Do you have a health objective in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u100	Madam President, before I ask my question, I would like to know whether Question No 17385 in point 112 of the Agenda is the same as Question No 16587 in point 44, attached to that of Mrs Dedry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u101	No. This is a completely different question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u102	Minister, often doctors, especially hospitals, have examinations done that are not useful or that could be replaced by equally effective but less costly examinations for social security. Indeed, it is possible – I am telling you a case of experience – to replace some scanners made and invoiced one hundred and fifty euros, ultrasounds reimbursed seventy-five euros. My sources are from the ULB, a university hospital. I understand that this allows hospitals to make figures, but it partly undermines your policy of remediating and limiting health spending, when there is a way to save money that does not affect the patient's portfolio or health. Minister, can you tell us what proportion of medical procedures and costs are represented by the different types of medical imaging (scanners, ultrasound, etc.).( )? Can you tell us what tests can be performed independently by scanning and ultrasound? Can you tell us what savings can be achieved by replacing ultrasounds with scanners when medically possible? Can you tell us what action is being taken, will be taken or could be taken by INAMI to induce prescribers to make this change in examination? Finally, what means do you have or intend to implement to put a little bit of reason and measure back into these practices that I find excessive?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u103	Madam President, Mr Flahaux's questions require numerical answers. I propose to send him the written answer in order to save time. Mrs Dedry, I have, of course, taken note of the recent KCE report 280 to which you refer. It has always been my practice to promote the responsible use of research and treatment in a scientifically based way and based on validated guidelines. My policy notes of 2016 and 2017 explicitly refer to the evidence-based practices in the decision-making process. The resources currently devoted to various initiatives will be pooled into a multi-annual framework of evidence-based practices 2018-2021. At various levels, including within the RIZIV, work is carried out on a network of evidence-based practices. The findings and recommendations of the KCE such as this report are also part of the promotion of an evidence-based application of medicine. Following the publication of this report, a press release was distributed by the KCE. They also developed a corresponding app, which can be downloaded free of charge via the website. In general, recommendations are communicated through various channels, such as the professional association, permanent training and feedback campaigns to the providers and hospitals, which should lead to the proper use of resources by the appropriate target group. For example, it depends on the age, which preoperative studies a patient should undergo. Finally, there is the Health Care Enforcement Action Plan 2016-2017.This was drawn up on my request by the RIZIV and the healthcare partners concerned. The General Council of the RIZIV approved this plan on 18 July 2016. In addition to structural measures and measures to combat fraud, it includes nine measures to promote the efficiency of health care. The rational use of preoperative tests is also part of these measures and action points. This is already being done. No cost-effectiveness study was carried out with respect to this KCE report. Avoiding unnecessary studies, which benefits the patient, can generally be expected to be saved. The tests studied here were not quantified. The central objective included in the federal government agreement is to ensure quality, affordable and accessible health care for all citizens of this country in view of new developments and evolving needs. Therefore, I refer to my policy papers 2016 and 2017, which mandate the KCE to develop a methodological framework for defining both global and operational instrumental objectives for health care. Mr Flahaux, I will give you a document containing the figures (number of examinations and cost). It is difficult to provide a list of CT examinations that could be replaced by ultrasound. The attending physician shall prescribe an examination based on the specific clinical context of the patient, taking into account existing validated recommendations and other factors such as his/her expertise in the field concerned. The doctor proposes the examination which can answer the diagnostic question. In addition, the radiologist can currently replace the prescribed examination with a more appropriate examination. It's already possible and it's done a lot. On the basis of the data, he may consider that it is not a CT but rather an ultrasound that needs to be done, or the other way around. The proper use of medical imaging and the conduct of a more appropriate examination is a shared responsibility of prescribers and radiologists. Avoiding unwarranted reviews in general and CT reviews in particular prevents not only unnecessary spending but also unjustified irradiation. In general, applying good practice rules in the field of medical imaging should lead to savings or, at least, lower cost increases. Only very comprehensive estimates can be made to quantify these expected savings with a large variation by type of review and by indication studied. A specific study carried out in 2012 by the University of Ghent estimates that the application of the recommendations could reduce the number of applications for medical imaging examinations in Belgium by 20 to 25%. Specifically for the lumbar column, the number of CTs could decrease by more than 70%. The replacement of CT with ultrasound has not been specifically studied in this context. Often, CTs are replaced by MRIs. An update of this Belgian study in 2015 estimates that for the lumbar column CT and the abdomen and thorax CT, expenditures could decrease by 28%. Several measures have already been implemented or are in the process of being implemented, all of which are currently under consideration. In particular, in the nomenclature of health benefits, reimbursement of the X-ray of the lumbar column is only possible when the recommendations are implemented. If this is not done, the detailed reasons for this derogation must be kept in the patient's medical record. Other arrangements are laid down in the nomenclature for the reimbursement of certain CT and PET-CT examinations, including limitations on the prescriber or indication. In addition, the Memorandum of Understanding on Medical Imaging published in the Belgian Monitor on 20 June 2015 provides, among other things, for the establishment of a national register of medical imaging devices. In this register, CT and MRI scanners, PET, PET-CT, SPECT-CT devices are recorded. All devices are provided with a unique identification number and a unique billing number per device and to be included in the billing of these examinations as a condition of reimbursement. Examinations carried out with devices that do not meet all the required criteria will no longer be eligible for reimbursement. Recommendations for the proper use of medical imaging have been published since 2010 on the Public Health FPS website. Recommendations are a way to help physicians choose the most appropriate test for the patient. The BELMIP platform has been established and various relevant authorities are involved, including INAMI, SPF Public Health, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency and stakeholders such as radiologists, nucleoirists, generalists, medical imaging technologists. This platform develops initiatives to streamline the use of medical imaging. Several information campaigns have already taken place to inform doctors as well as the general public about the overconsumption of radiological examinations and to promote the rational use of imaging. INAMI provided feedback to prescribers on their own use of medical imaging and leaflets "Focus on medical imagining" informing physicians about the use of radiological examinations under specific clinical conditions. The desirability of introducing decision support systems is currently under consideration within INAMI. These systems can assist prescribers in choosing exams by providing them with an active feedback based on the recommendations when choosing the exam. For the implementation of a decision support system, electronic application for each medical imaging examination is a mandatory requirement. Development is under way. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the rational use of examinations and means in general but also in the field of medical imaging is one of our priorities. Mrs Dedry, we are also going to do this through the new hospital funding, of which the programming of heavy equipment is an important part. The heavy equipment will then be located in the networks and no longer in every hospital. We shall work with referral and referral back to committee. We can allow funding to be made possible within the network and not by hospital. I believe that there too there is a need for rationalisation. For the rest, the decision we made about the unique song is important. Now we can map how many studies for how many patients happen to each device. That is also important for the refund. It'll teach us a lot. You know that this only started last year, but we are going to learn a lot from it. We will therefore try to make use of the hospital reform to prevent things that are bad for public health. Too much radiation is bad tout court, everyone knows that. The number of mutations in our genetic material increases sensitively due to external factors such as radiation. Especially children are very vulnerable, but so are adults. This is therefore an important aspect of public health. It shouldn't always be just budgetary, certainly not. I believe that the health aspect here is primordial. However, this also makes it possible to invest in less harmful equipment. So the number of CTs has to go down, so we can use more magnetic resonance or whatever else is going to come that means less radiation for the patients. It is important for us to be able to implement it through the means that are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u104	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. I hope, but I can already hear it in your answer, that you will monitor the results, play briefly on the ball, follow up the case well and also communicate regularly on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u105	I think this is one of the big questions that have been asked today and an important subject. You're a thousand times right: we're putting in motion methods to help with decision-making. But the basic problem – that's what I'm talking about and I won't tell you from who – is that we give instructions to radiologists to practice this way, because it's part of the money pump for the hospital. That is the fundamental problem. And that is what we must be able to resolve. You are in no way responsible for this state of affairs, but you must be aware of it. I think it would be interesting to make a comparison between hospitals, another between the situation in Belgium and our neighbours, in order to be able to "point" clearly those who are at fault from this point of view. I know it's not just the financial aspect. There is nothing to prevent us from working on both fronts at the same time so that we can improve things, both in terms of de-listing and in terms of the budgetary means which are still too limited. The economy that would thus be generated,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u106	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u107	Excuse me, Madam President, but when you ask questions, there is no time limit!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u108	Think about finishing, Mr. Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u109	It would be done if you hadn't interrupted me, Madam President. So, in this context, I think we really need to act. That must be one of our priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u110	It is good to remember from time to time to be synthetic. I'm not saying "stop," I'm saying "attention."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u111	Madam Minister, I do not know why these questions were linked, because they are two very different questions. As regards the status of self-employed workers, it has been pointed out from practice that the law makes it difficult for self-employed nurses to work in institutions. For example, self-employed nurses who would like to be registered in a general practitioner's practice would not be able to do so under their statute because they could not obtain fees for, for example, practical support. Today we do see that there is a special master's programme, in which the University of Antwerp pioneered, which provides an additional training of nurses just to support that general practitioner's practice. I therefore think it is necessary to support this trend in policy terms. By the way, I hear that this would be possible in the Netherlands. The same would be true of care professionals employed in home nursing. Today this can only be done on a wage basis, not under the self-employed status. Do you recognise that today it is impossible for self-employed nurses to work under that statute at a general practitioner's office or a home nursing service? Do you have ears for solving this problem? In what way? My second question is a very different one and concerns the number of nurses in bed. I have been following this dossier for a long time and, above all, I am addressing the appalling situation in which our nurses have to work in health care today. I am talking not only about nurses in the institutions, but also about the self-employed. Today my question concerns mainly the nurses in the institutions. As far as care personnel are concerned, there is such a thing as a standard form that determines the minimum level of benefit and the funding on the other hand. I have already pointed out in plenary that this was established in the sixties. It is true that a number of adjustments have been made since then, but certainly not enough to cope with the enormous increase in care gravity, as well as the progress in medical technology evolutions. In short, people are sent home much faster today with a much more intense problem, which has greatly increased the workload during the shorter period in which patients stay in the hospital. I also asked you about the use of the budget of financial resources. I was very surprised that you did not check whether the envelopes paid to hospitals were also spent in accordance with the objectives for which they were paid out. Is it true that as a minister, you don't know how many nurses are at the patient's bed today? In itself, the opposite reasoning is made: the number of responsible beds and the care gravity determine the right to a specific envelope which includes, among other things, the nursing staff. Is there never a check on whether the money is being spent on it? In practice, we do know that, because there are studies that show that there are more nurses than there are standards at the bed, but that is what the government wants to know. So I wonder: how does this calculation happen? What is the current standard bestaffining per service? Who's checking it out in what way? If checked, are there actually more nurses on average than standards? Studies show that. Do you have any figures on that? On the basis of the calculation B2 of the budget of financial resources, should you know how many nurses are being financed? It must be possible to make that reverse calculation. I come to my final question. Are you aware that the workload for care staff in our institutions is becoming unsustainable? You promised to deal with it earlier in the reform of hospital funding. However, when you took stock of this, you did not speak and referred to the fact that it had been transferred to the Länder since the sixth state reform. I am now asking you for your opinion. Even if the norm has to be set at state level, you still have to provide the necessary funding for this. If you agree that the standard funding needs to be raised, you can contact your fellow state officials in the IMC. If these fellow statesmen agree, will you provide the necessary funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u112	Mrs Van Camp, you asked two questions, which have been merged by the services. I'll answer them separately. There is indeed no specific nomenclature for nurses performing benefits in kind in a general practitioner's practice. A nurse employed in a general practitioner's practice may, regardless of his employment status, charge the benefits in kind provided for in Article 8 of the Nomenclature if the conditions are met. For example, the nomenclature states that no fees are payable to the nurse when the care provided is an integral part of a consultation, visit or technical provision carried out by a physician. The coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of healthcare professions defines the healthcare professional and lays down the conditions under which the healthcare professional can exercise his or her profession. There it is another pair of sleeves: the current legislation allows the caregiver to carry out certain nursing activities under the supervision of a nurse and within a structured crew. The minimum attestation conditions for the activities carried out by healthcare professionals are also described in the Royal Decree of 22 November 2013 amending Article 8 of the Royal Decree of 14 September 1984 laying down the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind for compulsory medical care and benefits in kind. These conditions must, of course, also be respected. The conditions laid down in Article 8 of the Nomenclature do not impose any restrictions on the employment status of the healthcare professional concerned. Regarding your question about the number of nurses in the hospital units, some data can be retrieved from the Minimum HospitalData (MZG), which can be found at the FPS Public Health, others from FINHOSTA and also from the mandatory annual reports of hospitals. Until 2014, the number of full-time equivalents per nursing unit was collected four times a year through the Minimum HospitalData. In other words, this data is a snapshot. The recognition standards indeed impose the number of VTEs per occupied bed. I can assure you, on the basis of the hospital reports on hospitalisation units, that the real bestaffin is significantly higher than the bestaffin imposed by the accreditation standards. I have a table for you that contains some illustrations of this determination for a number of bed types. You can see that for each type the presence per occupied bed is always higher than the standard. Sometimes it's much higher, sometimes it's just over. So I do not think it is right to revise those standards. We could check with the federal states. That's not an easy discussion. We can possibly talk about that in the IMC. I do not think there is much interest in this in the Länder. I could always ask. If you want, I can ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u113	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u114	That's all connected to that. I'll have you deliver the list. You might want to take a look at it. We're above the norm everywhere. As far as funding is concerned, you know that the BFM is a very complex issue. In the context of a different financing of the hospital landscape, we are currently having an unraveling of the BFM. We hope that we will be able to draw certain conclusions from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u115	Thanks! As far as the self-employed are concerned, I must certainly reread the law to which you refer, because if I understand your answer correctly, this is possible because not all benefits in kind are already included. So we need to see what's still possible there. As far as the number of nurses is concerned, I am very pleased that you would like to take up this point with your colleagues in the state. I'd love to! We are waiting in suspense for the exercise of unravelling the BFM. I believe that this is the ideal opportunity to reward hospitals that are just more committed to nursing staff and care staff at the bed. Today, funding is very performance-oriented and not at all quality-based. It may be pointed out that on average there are more nurses than the norm requirement, which means that there is no need for an increase in the number, but I think it is above all a question of funding. As a government, we have to reward hospitals that do well, for example, when they rely on more nurses on bed because we know that this improves the quality of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u116	In previous discussions it was mentioned that the government does not keep track of the supplements charged by deconventional care providers or institutions. Why is that? Do you intend to do so in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u117	The reason for the situation you are describing is that the health insurance funds are only occasionally informed of such supplements. We are dependent on information from the health insurance funds. The patients provide proof of payment to the sickness funds, which in turn reimburse the amount. They are also not aware of the supplement. They ask the patient for information. They're getting that information, too. You often see publications about this. The Financial Transparency Act provides for a discharge for the patient, if the third-payer scheme is applicable in combination with the electronic invoicing or if reimbursed together with unpaid benefits in kind are charged. Then the patient knows what is being paid back, what is his personal share and exactly how much the supplement is. Then the patient will know, but that doesn't mean that the health insurance fund doesn't, and we certainly don't. We are now engaged in discussions with various sectors, including doctors, with a view to communicating supplements to the health insurance funds on the invoices and certificates of assistance provided. So it's not just about doctors, it's also about dentists and anyone who charges a fee. I do not have to tell you that these are not simple discussions, but we are conducting them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u118	I'm sure it'll be a pleasure. Simple or not, the government provides for significant compensation for health care providers. We also have several consultations with them in order to use them. Then I think it is only logical that we at least have a view of the supplement charged by those who do not join the convention. I therefore hope that these talks will progress well, so that there will be more transparency on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u119	Question No 15955 by Mrs Becq is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u120	Madam Secretary, there was already a question about the mini-agreement with the doctors. There is certainly light at the end of the tunnel, but the tariff agreement with the dentists is still pending. That agreement also remains out, which means that there is no more tariff security for that profession either. It is said that about 60% of dentists are conventionated. That's a very low number. In the absence of an agreement, a large group can no longer offer tariff security to patients. Pending a new agreement, the Federation of Flemish Dentists proposes to the convening dentists to increase their fees by no more than the health index of 2.5 %. The VVT is milder than the VBT, which calls for an increase of 3 to 5 %. It is logical that there should also be an outcome here and that there should be clarity both for the profession and for the patients about tariff security; hence my question about the latest state of affairs in the consultation between you and the dentists. Are there any other professions besides dentists, doctors who have more or less a solution in sight, and the physicists who have plans to cancel the convention? Are you in favour of our many proposals that we have made to deal even more with the waste in health care, so that fees should not be affected and there should be more resources for healthcare providers? In particular, this has caused the sector's malaise. We do not support this explicitly, especially if we look at and see the many reports on it, certainly again in the recent OECD report specifically on waste in health care, how much there is to pick up there. It is irresponsible to touch the rates of our carers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u121	Madam Minister, I will not repeat Mr Van Camp's introduction. The problem is outlined. I have already put a written and an oral question on this, but I would add that deconvention, in part or in full, is indeed a serious problem, because in this way patients really do not know what to impose. Someone who is partly deconventional is at certain hours of the week, and then there is actually no clarity at all for the patient. I would also like to add that this is certainly problematic for the health gap, because dental care is really an excellent measure of differences between richer and poorer patients. Another question has made it clear that at the Federal Committee on Patient Rights the complaints certainly last year were very often about the quality of dental care and about the peppered invoices the patients received. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Have you talked to the dentists? Will there be an end to the deadlock? What will you do against the deconvention trend? Will you ensure that the health gap in dental care does not widen? What measures will you take to deal with the lack of dentists in certain regions and the ageing of the profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u122	It is correct that no new agreement has yet been reached with the dentists. The previous agreement expired on 31 December 2016. In the meantime, further work has been carried out in working groups and the Technical Dental Council has further developed the proposals contained in the draft agreement of 15 December 2016. These were submitted to the meeting of the National Committee on Dentists and Diseases on 23 March, so this week. The working groups MyCareNet and telematics meet on the operationalisation of electronic invoicing by dentists, in order to remove the diseases of children. A specific working group looked at the particular problem of the registration of dental numbers and patient profiles. This problem is part of tackling waste and inefficient use in health care. So there is a moving consultation. I hope to be able to reach an agreement there soon too, so that patients will have further tariff security with the dentist. Mrs Van Camp, if you say that you are not in favour of these savings on fees, then I can say that those savings were actually a decision of the whole government. Your party is part of that, too. We must remain somewhat politically honest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u123	That's what I agree with. If reforms and waste management are not implemented in a timely manner, then, of course, the time has come to take measures that are much more painful. That is why I would particularly like to see our reforms and the many proposals we have made to tackle waste as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u124	Exactly. We're doing that now, and we'll do it for the dentists. The misuse and waste of resources must also be avoided. We'll all get better from that. I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u125	The positive thing in your answer is that you will certainly put those dental numbers under the magnifying glass, allowing you to detect the improper use. There is indeed something going on there. Apart from that, I will continue to point out the problem of deconvention because this is at the expense of the people with the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u126	In December 2016, De Standaard published an interesting article on liver disease, based on a recent study by the UZ Gent, which shows that non-alcoholic fatty liver disease has been the second most important cause of cirrhosis in the last ten to twenty years. Our diet and sedentary life explain a lot, but not everything. Sometimes the cause is genetic. Patients with type 2 diabetes often also get a fatty liver because of their lifestyle. In obese children there would also be a high risk. There is also a recent study, this time by UZ Leuven. A third of the obese children have clearly disturbed liver tests. That has to do with an excess of fructose in our diet, especially in children. We have less defenses against fructose. Obese children systematically screen for fatty livers, as American scientists suggest, is not a solution, because diagnosis can only be done through a biopsy. We know that obesity in children causes health problems and I am concerned that major diseases, such as liver problems and cirrhosis, are on the rise. What are the agreements in the Sectoral Agreement to reduce the fructose content in food intended for children? How will you enforce these agreements? Are you in favour of slimming programmes or are you thinking more of a systematic screening of fatty liver in obese children? In short, what measures do you intend to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u127	Ms Dedry, in 2016, a first agreement was concluded with the food sector, including soft drinks producers, with concrete commitments to reduce the average energy content of their products by 5% by the end of 2017. We are once again in consultation with the food sector and with the soft drinks producers on further energy reductions. We aim to establish concrete commitments to reduce the average sugar content in products by a further 5% by the end of 2020. There has been no specific consultations on fructose with those sectors, but we are taking that with us. It is something that also lives in the food sector. We have recently learned that a particular producer's children's ice cream would now be sugar-free and contain tagatosis. I think that's a good trend. Currently, the obese child, who is being followed in the context of an outpatient multidisciplinary guidance for weight loss, is not screened for liver damage. One can do an ultrasound, but in order to make a hepatological diagnosis, one has to do a puncture. It appears to be more problematic in children when it comes to clotting. The prevention of obesity in children is mainly related to food education, both in the family and at school. Programmes for the prevention and promotion of healthy nutrition are essential in this context. It is therefore of paramount importance that the Regions and the Communities also ensure their role in the area of public awareness and information, so that children do not start to suffer from serious diseases from an early age. At the federal level, I am putting in the levers I have at my disposal. In addition to the covenant, I also participate in actions such as healthy food at school. Furthermore, my services are investigating whether it is desirable to introduce a front-of-pack label in Belgium that can help consumers make a healthy choice. Finally, we are talking to the food industry about responsible advertising and marketing of food products aimed at children. The covenant already contains a number of agreements on this subject. The voluntary agreements that are being made on this should cover a larger market share and also become more stringent. This is all part of a joint plan of action, which I decided in March 2016, together with my competent colleagues from the Länder, in the framework of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health. The negotiations and implementation will continue there. That must be voluntary, because products must remain tasty. If not, people are buying foreign products with a fall in the consumption of their own products. For public health, this may be the wrong way forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u128	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. The answer is mainly about your agreement with the sector and the Inter-Ministerial Conference. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gerkens and myself contains a number of proposals which can be incorporated federally. I suggest you and your staff read them thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u129	Mrs Jiroflée is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u130	Madam Secretary, I asked you about this earlier. You then referred to the reimbursement of a cochlear hearing implant, but a BAHA is something completely different. Especially for children without eardrums and with a closed ear canal, as with 18q deletion, only a BAHA does not offer a solution and a cochlear hearing implant. You also referred back then to a project that ran to see what precisely determines the high cost, or that is due, for example, to supplements. Madam Minister, has that project already been completed and, if so, what has it shown? You also said that the agreement committee wanted the reimbursement to be better aligned with the indication and technological level of the hearing aid. What exactly is decided there? As I said in the introduction, a cochlear implant is fully refunded, but a BAHA is not actually. Why is that? It is also covered by the reimbursement system of classical hearing aids, while it is something completely different. For children with a working middle ear, a BAHA offers a much better and cheaper solution than a cochlear implant. Up to the age of five to six years it can be placed on a soft band and then, if the child's skull is thick enough, it can be implanted. In any case, its cost is around EUR 12 000 for both sides, of which only about EUR 2 500 is reimbursed. I checked. Parents of a child with 18q deletion are in this case at the choice: almost 10 000 euros coughing up or depriving their child of his hearing, essential for development. Why is only EUR 2 500 out of EUR 12 000 reimbursed? You referred to the supplements in a previous reply, but they cannot amount to EUR 10 000. A processor in itself has a very high price tag, which is not covered at all by 2 500 euros. 18q deletion is a rare condition, but there are some disorders in which the eardrums or the ear canal are not developed. How many people actually charge a refund for a BAHA? How often are these devices placed and refunded, to estimate whether the government has the room to raise the refund? Finally, I find it strange that children with a middle ear problem for a cochlear hearing aid and also for an external speech processor should be compensated, while children with a closed ear canal are not. In practice, it comes down to both cases, so people see that the children can't hear without the right hearing aid. They do not themselves choose what condition they have and therefore whether they need a CI or BAHA. Do you recognize that difference? What will you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u131	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, my services are currently unable to extract the supplements of BAHA devices from the global figures of supplements that are now available. In July 2016, the Audience Insurance Institutions Agreement Committee published a restrictive list of all reimbursed hearing aids and updated them already in December 2016. This list ensures that in the future it will be possible to see how much supplement will be paid for all devices delivered after 1 October 2016. The project to adjust the reimbursement to the indication and the technological level is still ongoing and is being examined further. In the light of the European Directive 93/42, the sound processor should be classified as a class IIa medical device. These aids therefore fall within Article 31 of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind and cannot be reimbursed by means of legislation for the implants. Article 31 provides for a refund per hearing aid delivered, with an additional refund per leg-conductor, e.g. a BAHA device. This refund is currently EUR 1 145 for one ear for children and EUR 651 for adults, with an additional refund of EUR 96 for leg-guided appliances. I'll get back to you on this. In 2015, approximately 200 hearing aids with leg guidance were refunded. The different types of devices and implants have different functionality and have been developed for specific types of hearing problems. A BAHA is suitable for a person with a mild to moderate conductive hearing problem, but not for a person who is completely deaf. As a result, there are several criteria for eligibility for a specific type of appliance. It is indeed difficult to understand that two persons, with a similar hearing problem at first sight, can therefore be eligible for a refund of a different type of appliance. As has just been explained, hearing aids and BAHAs are covered by Article 31 and the fees, supplements and conditions to be met are determined by the Audience Insurance Institutions Agreement Committee. For the other implants, the mid-ear implants and the cochlear implants, the fees and compensation conditions are proposed by the Commission as compensation implants and invasive medical devices. There are therefore two different routes for reimbursement. The methods of reimbursement for both regulations are completely different. In addition, each committee must use the budgetary envelope it has when fixing the amounts of compensation. You say it's hard for people to understand. I think so, too. However, these are two different committees and two different ways of reimbursement. And it's definitely different indications. You have a point, if you say that one will be repaid in full and the other will not. However, there is another history to it. I think the BAHA is more recent than the other. This may evolve, but there will still be two different routes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u132	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It is good that you acknowledge the problem. The people who are confronted with this on the ground will certainly find it a boost to explain why it has been included in a different reimbursement procedure. If I understand correctly, the European directive in particular means that BAHA cannot be reimbursed like the other implants. It seems at the insurance consultation with the audiologists that it is necessary to examine whether the refund can be increased. Since I hear you say that there are only two hundred patients, this must be possible. I understand you're in favour of it as a minister. Hopefully you'll work for it too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u133	Debates of the European Parliament 16000 by Mrs Hufkens will be converted into a written question. Questions Nos 16005 by Mrs Somers and 16094 by Mrs Van Peel are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Becq's 16025 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u134	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked a question on this issue in the past. At that time, you said that the Committee on Orthopedists' Insurance would check whether all the prefabortheses in Article 29 of the Nomenclature are justified for reimbursement and that they would therefore re-evaluate this on the basis of the new scientific insights in the framework of a price transparency project. This would also be the case for the rescue device, which is prescribed for hallux valgus, among other things. Has this exercise been completed yet? If so, what are the findings?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u135	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the exercise that is under way goes a little bit wider and within the framework of the project on price transparency, in which all orthes from Article 29 of the nomenclature of medical benefits are re-examined on the basis of scientific evidence. The project also provides for a new and correct refund for all these products. This means that, in addition to a scientific evaluation, price agreements must be made within the Agreement Committee for each type of product. It is also necessary to list all the products concerned on the Belgian market. In order for this system to be fully implemented, the relevant Committee on Agreements is developing the modalities. The RIZIV is also exploring how the underlying systems can be set up. So the work goes on. So it is more than just the problem of the night splints in hallucinogenic valgus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u136	Madam Secretary, I understand that the exercise is still ongoing. I'm gonna go back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u137	Question No 16062 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question. We're going to give Mr. Carcaci time. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale No 16149 by Mrs Valerie Van Peel and No 16149 by Mrs Van Peel and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Questions No 16156 by Mr Philippe Blanchart, No 16180 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle, No 16124 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée, No 16248 by Mrs Els Van Hoof and No 16458 by Mrs Anne Dedry, No 16249 and No 16250 by Mrs Els Van Hoof, No 16295 by Mrs Anne Dedry, No 16302 by Mr Philippe Blanchart are transformed into written questions. As Mr Daniel Senesael has not told us, his question No 16306 is withdrawn. Question No 16326 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u138	Madam President, Minister, the ambulance services active in emergency medical aid demonstrated to your office on March 10 to denounce the lack of resources available to the sector. The Belgian Association of Professional Ambulance Services, the Royal Federation of Belgian Fire Brigades and the Brandweervereniging Vlaanderen denounce in particular the fact that the current lump sum amounts are too low to cover the actual costs of the vehicle, fuel, the care equipment used and the compulsory presence of two paramedics who have graduated continuously 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. They also raised the issue of unpaid invoices, which are only partially reimbursed by the AMU Fund. The demonstrators asked that you support the opinion of the National Emergency Medical Relief Council, with special attention to the funding component. In the January 2017 notice, the National Emergency Medical Council issued six recommendations on funding, funding components, user tickets, fund creation, external sources of funding and synergies. I won't mention them here. They are included in the question that has been forwarded to you. Minister, can you shed some light on the discussions that took place at this meeting? What commitments have you made in relation to their request to support the recommendations made by the National Emergency Medical Relief Council in January?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the deployment of 1733 at national level, the new circles of general practitioners and the new guard areas should, in principle, have the possibility to join the system, starting in autumn 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u140	Minister, isn't there any confusion in your answers? My question is about ambulance services. My question was attached to the one on 1733, but since its author is not present, it becomes irrelevant. That said, it's not very serious. Continue your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u141	New general practitioners' circles and new day-care areas are expected to be able to join the system as early as fall 2017. To determine when the guard position could do so, it is necessary to wait until the guard position meets all the criteria that will be specified in the coming months. As you know, non-emergency transport is the responsibility of the federated entities. This agreement was reached at the Inter-Ministerial Conference this week with the consent of all the federated entities. I would like to point out that, at present, only ambulances approved under 112 are allowed to use a siren and gyrophars and, in that sense, the agreement is in fact an implementation of the existing rules according to which the use of gyrophars and sirens is reserved for urgent transport only. The agreement also provides for a new category of intermediate vehicles: ambulances primarily responsible for non-emergency transport and which, occasionally, are used in the context of 112. They will now have their own external characteristics and will have to comply with the procedures and meet the quality and maintenance requirements of a 112 system. They will also have to have an authorisation to operate this type of vehicle. My collaborators have developed a plan for urgent medical assistance. It focuses on two pillars: - first of all on a programme guaranteeing to the citizens that, in 90% of cases, one of the resources of emergency medical aid able to prepare acts of advanced life support, will be on site within 15 minutes; - a reform of the financing of ambulances, with an increase in the financing of permanent posts. As I have already said, this issue requires a budget from the Council of Ministers together with my colleague Mr Jan Jambon, Minister of the Interior. This plan is entirely based on the advice of the National Emergency Medical Relief Council. I would like to point out that ambulance services have not come to protest but have come to show their support for this plan. They had letters for all the vice-prime ministers and their cabinets. They were very nice and didn't turn on their sirens during my interviews. That says enough, I believe, about their motivations! They were also consulted during all the work carried out. I also addressed the issue of underfunding urgent medical assistance to government partners in order to be able to release the resources necessary to fund this plan. But it must be said that it is a sector that has been underfunded for years and years. In the reform of the fire services, the public health and emergency medical aid aspects were not taken into account at that time, as I believe the latter to be deplorable. It's also a file I inherited, but we're gonna try to find ways. We have a plan, but we need resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u142	Madam Minister, thank you. This is an extremely important issue, namely ensuring the speed and quality of care. The heart of demand is therefore good to have funding, not luxury because it is not their demand, but correct funding to ensure this quality and speed of support. In this respect, it is nevertheless interesting to compare and see that the same urgent medical aid is taken care of by ambulances in the Netherlands. It's ten times more expensive. In Belgium, for a ten-kilometre mission, we can charge a little over sixty euros. In the Netherlands, just starting the ambulance produces an invoice of six hundred to seven hundred euros. This comparison is an inquisitive one. You're going to apply for additional funding from the government. Can you already give us a deadline? It's not for me, but to relay the information to the ambulance services? Will it be before or as part of the next adjustment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u143	As part of the next adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u145	Minister, I would like to repeat the point with regard to the logopedia. A year ago, on March 7, 2016, logoped professional unions and insurers signed an agreement. This Convention provides for many measures. A year later, I would like to take stock of these measures. There was a section on a reform of the nomenclature with the introduction of locked-in syndrome, parental guidance classification codes and flexibility standards. Where are we? There was a component on the financial intervention of INAMI in the use of certified software, thus a telematics premium. Where are we? What are the conditions for benefiting from it? What is the work schedule? There was a part on an amendment to the Royal Decree of 20 October 1994 so that a check could be made by a logopede without a doctor's prescription, which was a nonsense, I find, first and foremost for children but sometimes adults, and therefore the families concerned and the State since it required additional consultation. So it was more expensive for everyone. Will we go back to that? There was a component on the quantitative estimate of the budgetary impact on logoped expenditure in relation to the effects of population ageing. Has this study been initiated at the CPS level? Finally, there was also a section on solutions to be brought in relation to the plethora of logopeds. Thank you for providing different answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u146	Madam President, Minister, a type 2 disabled child must attend special education for his or her development. He is only entitled to specialized medical supervision for five years. School infrastructure is often poorly adapted and the different types of disability are mixed, in particular type 2 and type 3, which is already not conducive to their development. School transport is also poorly managed in the sense that childcare can only be provided to the nearest specialized school, even if it is not the first choice of parents. In addition, the costs of logopaedia are not reimbursed, while for unrecognized children with type 2 disabilities they are reimbursed. Minister, why don't we pay back the costs of logopedia care?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u147	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, Mr Carcaci, the provisions of the Convention have indeed been transposed into a Royal Decree of 20 February 2017 and come into force on 1 April 2017. Locked-in syndrome has been added to the nomenclature as a new disorder in its own right. The patient with this syndrome can obtain a health care insurance intervention in a logopedic treatment at the rate of 150 treatment sessions in the first year and 100 sessions for each of the following years without any time limit. Parental guidance allows for certain disorders to draw a number of sessions from the overall quota granted, up to 10 individual or group sessions, or to assign them to sessions in the presence of persons in charge of the child's education, to which the treatment agreement was obviously given, to teach them the specific strategies of targeted intervention to support and increase the effectiveness of the child's logopedic treatment. The flexibility standards refer in fact to the possibility of treating relapses for some of the disorders in the nomenclature, i.e. to retain a number of sessions drawn from the overall quota granted for the disorder up to a maximum of 30 % of that quota and to use these sessions after the end of the maximum total duration of treatment, as provided for in the nomenclature. This relapse should be treated within a period that begins six months after the end of treatment and ends two years after the end of treatment. It is therefore not, strictly speaking, an extension of the current treatment period – two years for most disorders – but an additional period after the end of this normal period. The granting of the telematics premium is, in fact, requested under the Convention but has not yet been the subject of extensive negotiations within the Convention Commission and a timetable is not set for addressing this issue. On the other hand, the granting of a benefit plan, called "social status", also provided for by this agreement, was the subject of the publication of a royal decree of 27 November 2017 and is applicable from the financial year 2016. The removal of the requirement of prior limitation of the initial balance sheet remains a request of the commission and involves an amendment, by the SPF Public Health, of the Royal Decree of 20 October 1994. As a transitional measure, the new version of the nomenclature in force from 1 April 2017 provides that this check-up requirement can be established by a general practitioner and not necessarily by a specialist, in order to simplify the administrative procedure for requesting interventions, since it was sometimes more difficult to obtain an appointment with a specialist than with a general practitioner. But this only concerns the balance sheet. The prescription of the logopedic treatment itself remains within the competence of the specialist physician. You know that there are waiting lists of two years or more for a child to be assessed. This is a very challenging situation. Indeed, before defining a treatment, a balance sheet is always necessary. The general practitioner is also able to make this assessment. The lists are known. I think he'll have more time...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u148	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u149	No, we have to go through the generalist.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u150	(...) The order will be amended and we will continue to go through the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u151	That's it! With regard to the effects of population ageing on logopedia expenditure, the study has not yet been carried out, but this remains a concern of the Commission of Agreements between logopedes and insurers. The above-mentioned committee sent me letters explaining the problem of the plethora of logopedes. It is of the view that this problem should also be considered in terms of the education which forms the future logopedes which fall within the competence of the federated entities. As a result, consultation meetings have already taken place with them. But concrete measures have not yet been defined. I come to the question of Mr Carcaci. My colleague, I will send you a copy of the very technical answers I gave during the debate on the budget. The problem does not only exist on the francophone side. A change has indeed been made. Thus, children attending school in a normal school can now benefit from a logopedic and kinestherapeutic treatment. Previously, it was in special education, where these benefits were sometimes included. I'll send you the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u152	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. This is the problem when a question is tabled in January and the answer is given at the end of March. Meanwhile, the royal decree is out. Good! I'll go read this royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u153	Do you not have a warner who announces to you the publication of every new royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u154	I was starting to find the long lead time. I had been called by a few logopedes. So I thought it would be good to put a little pressure back on. Maybe it pushed things to turn things on... I'm kidding... I welcome the publication of this Order. With regard to parental guidance, involving parents to ensure continuity of treatment on a daily basis is a good thing. I believe that the same thinking could be applied in schools. You will remember that I had insisted a little on taking care of the logopedia in school. Linking teachers could also add value, especially as children with logopedia problems have other associated "dys" (dyslexia, etc.).). Finally, as far as the transitional regime is concerned, urgent action is needed. There are many children waiting to consult an ENT. I'm glad it's April 1st. That was essential, because the situation was catastrophic. We took a huge delay and pushed back the support of logopedia, which is obviously harmful to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u155	Madam Minister, thank you. Despite this long wait, I am delighted that the usher transmits to me the answer already given in advance. Since I am not a member of this committee, I do not know what is happening there: the questions that have already been asked and to which an answer has been given. Excuse me! There was no signal that a question was being asked. We could've picked up your answer. Thank you for taking the time to send me the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u156	Madam Minister, I asked questions earlier about the Rule 81 procedure. I understand that we cannot always get all the details about this. It's still something untransparent. The answer to my question on this question also raised more questions than it solved. The Court of Auditors' report warns that the implementation of this article threatens to derail the budget. If I understand correctly, Article 81 is very often invoked for funds that the CTG indicates have added value but are rather expensive. This leaves room, for example, for a company's portfolio to consider what other means of price reduction could be used to compensate for the price increase in the budget for the newly reimbursed medicinal product. I requested the data, but they were not entirely clear to me. Are there other forms of Article 81? How exactly does it work? Does the Court of Auditors' warning take account of the price reductions that are often agreed upon for another medicine? If this is taken into account, why does the Court of Auditors warn against a derailment of the budgets? What about the reform of the CTG, which you announced earlier? I understood that one of the aspects involved a relaxation of the Article 81 procedure. Is that right? Why should this procedure be made more flexible? I find it very strange that the mutualities have almost half the seats in the CTG. What do they actually have to do with scientific data on cost-benefit analyses? They are health economists, scientists, who must be represented in them. Why are the mutualities in there? Do you have any plans to remove them from that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u157	When a medicinal product enters an Article 81 procedure, there are several possibilities. There can indeed be a drop in prices, either for the medicine itself or for another medicine from the pharmaceutical company's portfolio. It is then a matter of reducing the social public price. However, the company often wishes to maintain its facial price, for example for reasons of pricing in other European countries. In this case, other budgetary compensation mechanisms can be chosen, whereby the company makes a confidential return. This budgetary compensation mechanism may take various forms, such as a payment to the Institute of a percentage of turnover, realised by the speciality in question in Belgium, subject to this turnover and/or estimated turnover. Either a payment to the Institute of an amount corresponding to the total or part of the difference between the planned expenditure and the actual expenditure for the medicinal product in question. When a new medicine comes, people always say how many people it will be able to use, and how much it will cost. Do you remember the hepatitis C refund: it would then be 800 people, but in the end we are stranded at 1 500. It may also be a reduction in the reimbursement basis for other medicinal products placed on the market by the same applicant. It may also be a payment to the Institute of the difference between the proposed basis of concession and the value, corresponding to the evaluation of the criteria, for the packages reimbursed in the course of the contract; or any other modality to be borne by the applicant which allows the expenditure to be reduced. Sometimes they make suggestions themselves. It may also be a combination of the above mentioned modalities. At present, the communication of expenditure and refunds under Article 81 does not take account of the fall in prices. For a full therapeutic class of medicinal products, reimbursed under Article 81, contracts shall be drawn up with the aim of controlling the costs for the whole class. Furthermore, the principle of the net pharmaceutical budget will be applied at this level of the budget from 2017. For example, in 2017, the net budget for proprietary medicinal products also takes into account the 238 million euros in refunds for Article 81 contracts. Due to the introduction of the advance payment system in 2017, an additional EUR 56 million will also be repaid in 2017. This amount is included in that 238 million euros. That is to make it more transparent when we talk about the budget. An amendment to the Royal Decree regulating the reimbursement procedures for medicinal products is planned for October 2017. One of the changes is that the Minister will have the opportunity to propose to a company, after a negative opinion from the CTG, to start a contract procedure. This option is reserved for exceptional situations and enables the Minister to find or attempt to examine an agreement. Finally, there was your question as to why representatives of the insurance institutions within the CTG are justified. It is not just about the representatives of the insurance institutions, it is also about scientists, as you say. They are co-managers of the healthcare system and they are also representatives of the patients. It is also laid down in the law that they are therefore represented within the Committee on Medicinal Products.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u158	That was very clear, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u159	The Committee on Medicinal Products (CTG) would have discussed an application for the reimbursement of vaccination for pneumococcal disease. However, the general reimbursement would have been rejected there, because it is not cost-effective. Refund would then be possible for certain target groups, for example for older people. Where are we on this discussion? When will a refund be provided for which target groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u160	Mrs Van Camp, first of all, we must distinguish between the vaccination of children and that of adults. In the case of children, vaccination against pneumococcal disease has been carried out under the Community free vaccination programme. These are carried out by Child and Family and by the Office de la Naissance et de l'Enfance in the French Community. No vaccine has yet been reimbursed by the RIZIV for vaccination for adults. In Belgium, two vaccines are recommended against pneumococcal disease in older people, namely the polysaccharide vaccines and the composite vaccines. The specialist Pneumo 23, or the polysaccharide vaccine containing 23 serotypes, was in an evaluation procedure by the CGT in 2011. The company responsible withdrew that application before the then Minister for Social Affairs could decide on its reimbursement. Meanwhile, the company has no longer applied for Pneumo 23. On the other hand, there is the conjugate vaccine Prevenar 13. This is the only speciality approved in Europe by adults. More recently, it has also received an evaluation by the Commission on medicinal products. Based on the advice I received from the CTG, in June 2016 it was decided not to register Prevenar on the list of refunded medicines. The efficacy results in older people were not convincing. A pharmaceutical economic study was conducted by the KCE, which evaluates the vaccination against pneumococcal disease in older people. The Commission's opinion on medicinal products was to await the recommendations of the KCE for the possible vaccination of risk groups instead of all the elderly. The study of the KCE was published in October 2016 and concludes that none of the two vaccines show its effectiveness in individuals over 80 or 85 years of age, nor in persons at increased risk of infection. In short, one vaccine is no better than the other in terms of its clinical impact. The report of the KCE also underlines that the 11 serotypes present in the PPV23 and absent in the PCV13 actually represent 42% of invasive diseases and 24% of pneumonia that are not invasive. If Prevenar is administered to a patient, vaccination with PPV23 should also be followed, as otherwise the patient is not fully protected against all serotypes. The High Health Council gave another advice in 2014, namely to first give PCV13, followed by PPV23 with eight weeks interval. This should be given to all healthy persons aged between 65 and 85, to persons aged between 50 and 85 who have comorbidity and to persons aged between 19 and 85 who are at risk. There are therefore many recommendations, but so far no refund has been provided for any vaccine against pneumococcal disease. In order to get a medicine reimbursed, the company marketing the product in Belgium must submit an application to the Committee on Medication Medicines. So far, no procedure has been initiated for a vaccine against pneumococcal disease. I believe that this will be followed up. We'll wait and see. Nor is it clear how we can trace both opinions together, because they are heading in the opposite direction. The Committee on Medicinal Products could decide to recommend reimbursement, but we should wait for scientific conclusions to be reached on the schedule to be followed and on the target group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u161	My question No. 16339 may be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u162	Oral question No 16381 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u163	Madam Minister, last June we passed a law that expands the status of the "palliative patient" and various measures must be taken to make it a reality. From now on, palliative care is provided from the moment the patient is identified as palliative up to and including the terminal phase. Palliative care can also be started while treatment is already in progress, up to the care of close relatives and caregivers until after death. Ideally, the use of palliative care is phased in, depending on care needs and wishes, regardless of life expectancy. The law provides that "the King shall lay down the procedures for the implementation of the scientific guidelines applied both for the identification of the patient as a palliative and for the assessment of the wishes and needs for care". At the end of 2016, during the discussions of the Policy Note and Budget 2017, you recalled the decision to request an opinion from the Federal Palliative Care Evaluation Unit, following the results of the ICPT study. The Unit is committed to formulating proposals, within a budget-neutral framework, for the implementation of the ICPT tool as well as for the optimization of palliative care, depending on the patient's status. In this request for an opinion, specific attention was also requested to advance care planning. Once this opinion has been provided by the Unit, the proposals can be analysed by INAMI. Certain aspects of palliative care can certainly be an integral part of health care. In this sense, it is therefore recommended that the definition of health care be met. Palliative care, however, goes far beyond health care alone, as it requires a holistic approach. Minister, is there a specific timing so that we can read the opinions of the Federal Cell? The two-time one-month palliative package in the expected period of death within three months at home is still applicable. When can time-limit deletion changes be expected? Can this provision come into force before the one relating to the different phases that could be organized in the patient's follow-up? Is there already information on patient increases that would result from the removal of pre-death delays and the necessary staff adjustments? Is there an organization of transfers between the federal and the Regions of subventions for palliative care platforms and support cells, in connection with the changes envisaged in the status of "palliative patients" and the care provided to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u164	Mrs Gerkens, since Mrs Van Hoof's question was attached, I will reply in Dutch to what has been asked in Dutch. On 23 December 2016, an opinion was issued by the Federal Evaluation Cell Palliative Care regarding the early detection of potential palliative patients and the proposal to use the Palliative Care Indicator Tool (PICT). On 27 February 2017, there was also the additional advice on early care planning. The starting point is that on the basis of this care planning we want to determine what the therapeutic objectives are based on the patient's values and priorities. It is therefore a proactive and anticipating way of working in which it will be easier to make decisions, improve care, avoid unnecessary treatments and thus avoid emotional chaos in patients and their relatives. We are currently examining these two opinions, given the important implications of their implementation. In the context of compulsory health-care insurance, many adjustments should be made. In addition, on palliative status, some points need to be changed in the nomenclature, but there is also the palliative package, etc. As long as the decision on the use of these instruments and the technical arrangements are not finalized, of course, the current palliative package will continue to apply. The competence of platforms and palliative teams has been transferred to federated entities. As soon as I have given my opinion on the basis of the opinion of the Federal Cell with regard to the procedure for the care of palliative patients, I will put this point on the agenda of the interministerial commission. There was one this week. The next one is scheduled for July 3rd, so even before the holidays. After that, it will be September and December. In Public Health, we have four per year. Some were not brought together. We'll try to work as fast as possible, but I hope it'll be on July 3rd, otherwise it'll be September.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u165	I hope that we will be able to move forward quickly in terms of implementation but, of course, taking into account all the parties involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u166	Madam President, Minister, there has been a significant development in the flat-rate practice sector over the past decade. More than 300,000 patients receive front-line care in teams that have opted for this method of funding, i.e. 3% of the Belgian population. As part of the health care savings measures, the government has decided to save €7 million for future medical homes on the package. However, on 16 December 2016, during the budget discussion, you explained that the new medical home projects that had been submitted before 8 October 2016 would still be dealt with by the permanent working group responsible for these issues at INAMI. For the others, you have declared a moratorium in order, you said, to carry out an audit of the sector. You can imagine that there are fears that the medical home model that exists today could be completely challenged. This sector, which develops a global and multidisciplinary model of care, has demonstrated its effectiveness in terms of both public health and the fight against inequalities. Minister, could you explain to us what the specific objectives of this audit are? What will be the composition of the working group responsible for the audit? Will the actors of the Commission responsible for implementing the rules on the flat-rate payment of certain benefits be involved in this audit? Since my question was tabled some time ago, can you tell me whether this audit has already begun? According to some sources, it is expected to be finalized by the end of July 2017. Do you confirm this deadline? What will be the next step? Under what conditions could new medical homes open from July 2017? Can we expect the end of the practice of the package in medical homes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u167	Madam President, Minister, I have a very specific question. You have applied a moratorium and an audit with an evaluation project. I want to ask you about a very specific case. This is a medical home. I'll explain it to you, you can't fail to know, especially since the news is explosive in this area. Minister, the Open Vld of Menin commune has published a leaflet, a pamphlet directed against the request for the installation of a medical home on its commune. I don't want to believe you don't have it at your disposal. The extracts are incredibly virulent, since this leaflet states that medical homes violate the freedom of choice of patients and providers. The leaflet says: Minister De Block has rightly decided to cut off the ELG's system. Finish it! I continue: "free" – what free? – "flat-rate financing is harmful to public finances and contrary to the principle of accountability". "This is unfair competition for de facto providers". "Less doctors will settle in the municipality of Menen" and "medical homes attract poor people to a commune". Minister, since I've been asking my question for a while, I thought I'd ask you about this Open Vld tract. I was hoping you'd tell me that you're not confirming that you're going to dismantle the front-line care centre system and therefore medical homes and that you're clearly going to fake yourself with the content of this real pamphlet. But this week is full of news, since on March 20, 2017, this dossier of the medical house La Pyramide has passed. It was presented this Monday, March 20, 2017 for advice to the Insurance Committee. An extremely thorough study of this case was carried out as complaints had been filed by deed claimants. Following the different reactions of each other, this file has been carefully studied by the insurers. It is absolutely not about the moratorium, since the file was filed before the date fixed by you for the moratorium. Finally, the insurers felt that they could grant their licensing agreement on a serious basis. There, we are in the fight, since Mr Bert Winnen, the Commissioner of the Government, decided to apply the veto, your veto, on this matter, not on the basis of the clearly identified elements and which allowed the insurers to give their approval, but on the basis of Article 52. It's never before seen! It never happened! He therefore decided to block this file. Madam Minister, I dare not even ask you what you think of the pamphlet because I imagine you agree with this pamphlet drawn up by the local Open Vld because you have mandated Mr Winnen as Commissioner of the Government to go before the ad hoc Commission to block this matter in the Insurance Committee on your behalf for political reasons. Minister, I'm waiting for an explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u168	Mr Massin, Mrs Fonck, concerning the audit and its composition, it was an independent office that carried it out; as always and as was done with the guard stations. We have asked for an audit in which the issues to be addressed in the review must be determined. We give the order ourselves, but the audit is carried out by an independent agency. So we do not know the outcome. A draft command text has been created. Then my policy cell will be consulted with the responsible authorities on the possible decision-making or advice to be taken prior to the assignment of the external audit mandate. As far as the moratorium is concerned, it is true that there is a delay. It was decided in October but it dragged a bit into the Public Health FPS of INAMI in the service of Mr. From Ridder. I am working with members of the government to decide how to harmonize the various components of these budget decisions, taking into account the fact that the government text states that no medical home files will be approved prior to the audit findings. The results of this consultation will be forwarded to the INAMI bodies, so that the Institute will be able to communicate on this subject with the medical houses that have submitted a request for an agreement after 8 October 2016. In the meantime, all the files that have already been submitted and received positive opinions have been assessed by the Insurance Committee. As far as the pamphlet of the Open Vld is concerned, I think I remember that it was Mrs Karin Jiroflée who came to committee with that pamphlet. The content of the latter surprised me a lot. Indeed, it is wrong to claim that it is in my intention to reduce the number of medical homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u169	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u170	No. As I have done with the duty stations of the general practitioners, I try to see if they have the same method of work, not least from a budgetary point of view, but also at the level of very important elements, zoals of continuity van de dienstverlening. We have seen sentries that were open from 09:00 to 12:00 and from 14:00 to 16:00 and where the people before and after did not know what to do. We also want to know what is happening in the maisons médicales. We know there are little ones. There's really big ones. There are also those that are very close to each other. We want real transparency there. That's where a lot of money goes every year. We want this money to be well spent. As I have already said, I am talking about good governance, but also about the quality of service to patients. The latest report by the KCE on those maisons médicales dates back to 2008. It's a different situation now. It is certainly not my intention to reduce the number, but to know that the centres are being properly financed, but also to avoid over-financing. I also read that there will be funding from the provinces, from non-profit organisations, from certain municipalities and so on. I ask what happens to all these financial flows and how they relate to each other. This pamphlet of the Open Vld was not written by me, nor by one of my collaborators. I can assure you that they acted on their own initiative. This was confirmed by the president of the local Open Vld. It's a political war. This also exists in Menin. That's right. With regard to the opening and financing of a new medical home in Menin, it is true that my representative on the Insurance Committee informed me of a discussion and an opinion delivered at the meeting of the Committee on 20 March. I asked Mr. From Cock the minutes of this meeting to find out what was said in it. We didn't disapprove of the file. We simply said that complaints were also made to us by other Menin care providers, who told us about their concerns for patients, for patient care, for their free choice, for the quality of their treatment. Mrs Fonck, if I have any doubts about this, even if this situation is unprecedented, I am acting accordingly. That means I'm doing my job. He's the patient I need to protect. That's what I did. I took on my responsibilities. I knew the pamphlet. If I wanted to avoid difficulties, I wouldn't have. But I had doubts about the organization and development of the project. I took on my responsibilities. Nothing prevents that next time, it goes to the Insurance Committee. You say this is new, but it has already happened that, for lack of time at the end of the session, projects have been sent back to the next meeting. Nothing serious happened. I didn't write that pamphlet. I don't usually write pamphlets. I find that some of the points in it are not true about my policy. The leaders are the president and his entourage, who is not only from the Open Vld, we must say too. Some of these actors in health care are not part of the Open Vld training.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u171	Madam President, I am not going to enter the debate on this medical home. Minister, I hear your answer. You say it's an audit and he'll be independent. I assume you have initiated a public procurement procedure. I would like to know the company that was designated following this invitation to tender. As you do not specify the specific objectives of this audit, could you send me the special specifications to verify the purpose, the conditions, the deadlines? That would be the least way to ensure the transparency of the case. I took note of the delay between the decision-making date of the moratorium, i.e. December 2016, and the deadline of July 2017. It is clear that during this time, you realize an economy. Finally, I hear we're waiting for the results of an audit to find out if we're re-opening the tap. I hope that we will not limit the flow and that the aim is not to make closures. I therefore await the transmission to Parliament of the special specifications, the name of the designated company and the time limit within which it must work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u172	Indeed, it would be interesting to have these elements. The date has changed but you don't know the new deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u173	No, because it has fallen behind in the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u174	Does not the specification provide for a maximum estimated duration in months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u175	They didn't start until January.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u176	Minister, I do not mind that we are organizing an audit to ensure that the budget is properly used by medical homes. Je reviens sur ce tract: "New medical collaboration The Pyramid is a bad thing for Menen." Since you do not know very well what happened on this Insurance Committee, I will tell you. An agreement was reached between the members of the Insurance Committee. I repeat: it is your government commissioner who is in your office that I know, Mr Bert Winnen, who has indeed used a veto on a decision which has nevertheless followed the traditional procedure laid down by INAMI. You've made yourself the voice of local political debates. It's a denial of the Insurance Committee, a denial of the players of the Insurance Committee. This situation, for which I have a deep malaise, is unhealthy. You are creating an extremely challenging precedent for the governance of health care insurance. I repeat: this is a denial of the Insurance Committee. In practice, you impose your own decision based on political interests. You know as well as I do that health insurance normally works on a competent committee work which analyses the items in charge and in discharge in an objective and expert manner. In this case, the legal framework was respected. There was no obstacle to therapeutic freedom, neither the freedom to undertake nor that of the patient, since the commission had ruled unanimously. In addition, you allegedly use the patient's interest as a sex cache to defend partisan ideologies and interests. In my view, the approach to the communal elections must not be alien to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u177	Your accusations go too far! Your accusations are serious!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u178	What happened is too serious! You implement a health care system with a decision by the prince or rather the princess. I assure you that what you are doing here, Minister, is a real slap on health care governance and on the Insurance Committee. This is a complete denial of these actors. It's never seen what you've done! It wasn't an end of meeting because we didn't have the time! This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u179	Madam President, I would like to say something. Mrs. Fonck here pretends that I wrote that leaflet and that I'm making my decision on the basis of that leaflet, through the government commissioner. None of that is true! Mrs. Fonck, take the charges you're making on you. I completely deny them. You say you know what happened there. Were you there? Were you there yourself? Then you should know. If you weren't there, and there's no report yet, you can't know that. I'm not taking your accusations, Mrs. Fonck. You may do politics here, you sit here to do politics, but it must remain a little intellectually honest. This is not the truth: I wanted to see the free choice of patients and the quality of care safeguarded. Whether it's called The Pyramid or The Totem pole, I don't care, but it's my job to tell the patients that there should be caution when there are complaints.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u180	Madam Minister, here I have the conclusion...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u181	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u182	Minister, please let Ms. Fonck finish her speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u183	We're applying the rules. The last word is in parliament. Madam Minister, I have here the file which contains the agreement on lump sum payments for this medical home. He was unanimous. You didn't write the pamphlet. However, at this week's meeting – yes, I persist and sign – you clearly sent your representative a veto. The concomitance of these events...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u184	That's enough!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u185	This is the first time this has happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u186	That's Ms. Fonck's interpretation. You don't have to agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u187	So you followed a partisan line and did not respect the governance of health care insurance and the Insurance Committee. I think what's going on here is very serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u188	The attached questions Nos. 16556 by Mr Senesael and 16644 by Ms Van Camp, 16624 and 16625 by Mrs Jiroflée, 16645, 16646, 16647 by Ms Van Camp, 16648 and 16649 by Ms Van Camp, 16693 by Mrs Hufkens, 16709 by Ms Van Camp, 16737 by Mrs Fonck and 16846 by Mrs Dedry, 16721 by Mrs Fonck, 16722 by Mr Calomne and 17351 by Mrs Jadin, 16725 by Mr Verherstraeten and 16729 by Mr Crusinière, and 16767 by Mrs Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u189	Madam Chair, Minister, on June 23, 2016, the House adopted a motion for a resolution on the legality of the storage and transport of medicinal products for palliative use. I will not repeat here all the provisions of this resolution. They are included in the written question that has been communicated to you. Having said that, I had tabled an amendment containing a series of consensus recommendations, respecting the recommendations of the stakeholders on safety in the timely and adequate provision of the medicines and equipment concerned and the priority interest of the patients concerned. This amendment had the merit of bringing together a large number of actors and, in any case, all those involved in this matter. However, the majority had decided not to take into account these recommendations drawn up by the actors in the field directly aware of the problem. The Palliative Care Federations and representatives of the PDB met after the adoption of the resolution and prepared a proposal for a framework for the provision of exceptional use kits for palliative situations and palliative sedation to nurses of multidisciplinary palliative care support teams, alias support teams. Minister, have you been aware of this proposal for a framework? What do you think? Do you intend to implement the resolution adopted in June 2016? How long? How? Will you take into account the fruitful reflection carried out by the federations of palliative care and the representatives of pharmacists, in line with the recommendations that had been made by the federations, but also by pharmacists in collaboration with the mutuals?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u190	Minister, my question is the same. It is true that when our resolution was adopted, I was struck by the fact that the collective work of palliative care platforms and pharmacist representatives was not taken into account. After our work, they submitted to us a dozen proposals for frameworks to implement the measures planned or proposed. I would also like to know what you have put in place to put the resolution into practice while taking into account their proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u191	Ladies, I have asked AFMPS to consult with professional organizations representing pharmacists to adapt the list of medicines and medical devices to be found at all times and in useful quantities in pharmacies, adding active substances for palliative care. This is Annex 2 of the Royal Decree of 21 January 2009 on the instruction of pharmacists. The list of palliative care supplements was proposed by the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association, after consultation with the Palliative Care Federations, to the Belgian Pharmacopoeia Commission. The latter is responsible for approving this list. The additions have been approved by this Commission and the new version of Schedule 2, including palliative care products, is currently being published by the AFMPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u192	Minister, I hope we can translate it. The minimum that can be expected is that such a work, carried out by the actors on the ground, which has brought together a full consensus, supervised by the Federal Evaluation Unit in Palliative Care, is translated, to the benefit of the patient, of the quality of care with something that directly fits into reality. I hope that will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u193	Madam Minister, of course I have the same hope. I think that we really need to take advantage of all these times when the actors are working together to reach conclusions through different places of intervention from the country's three regions. It is really worth integrating their work into the actions to be taken. You have asked the Federal Medicines Agency to contact us. What's the timing for the next one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u194	I've been told they're being published. The work was done and the Commission approved the new version. They are taking steps for publication.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u195	So it's imminent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u196	Joined Questions No 16776 by Mr Hedebouw, No 16806 by Mrs Dedry and No 17209 by Mrs Van Hoof are referred to written questions as well as Questions No 16799 by Mrs Dedry, No 16824 by Mr Miller, No 16871 by Mrs Jadin and No 16874 by Mrs Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u197	Minister, as we know, proton therapy seems to be one of the important techniques to be used in cancer treatment. Projects have been developed in Charleroi, among others. It was the Walloon company IBA that won the market for the installation of this new centre. This company, the world's number one company, of which we can be particularly proud in Belgium, has been designated following a European call for tenders led by the four universities involved in this project, namely the ULB and the universities of Liège, Mons and Namur. This means that it is all the universities present in Wallonia, with the exception of Leuven even if there is a great rapprochement between Namur and Leuven. This project would have as its priority the search for new techniques in the treatment of cancers, to which would be added, but incidentally, therapeutic activity. The Walloon Region has planned to invest €47 million and the centre is expected to be operational by 2020. On 20 February, you expressed your willingness to recognise only one such centre in Belgium. It seems that as soon as next year, as the KUL, UCL and the University of Ghent will be opening their protontherapy centre at the Gasthuisberg University Hospital site, and that this project is more advanced in time, the Charleroi project may not have the approval granting reimbursement to patients who will be treated there. You can imagine that this could be a major disappointment for the partners of this project, for the Walloon Region and beyond, for Charleroi, who made every effort to have this centre set up on the campus of the Marie Curie Civil Hospital. In fact, there are several hospital sites concerned. Madam Minister, could you tell us specifically why only one centre could be recognised in Belgium? What would be the arguments in this regard? Should not the issue of geographical accessibility also be taken into account in this context? Is this caroloregian protontherapy centre in danger? Will he not receive the necessary accreditation for the reimbursement of patients who wish to be treated there?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u198	Madam President, honourable Member, these are two different centres. For the Gasthuisberg centre, five universities participated in its funding, without our intervention. The same firms as in Charleroi will start construction on April 28. The centre planned in Charleroi by Minister Marcourt, Minister of Economy and Scientific Research and not Health, will not be located in a hospital but at an industrial site in Charleroi. I did not imagine that it was intended to treat patients because there is no radiotherapy service while patients require supervision in the event of oedema or bleeding. It will be up to the minister to take responsibility. For my part, I announced an amount for this type of therapy and that a procedure was provided for patients who wished to benefit from this treatment. The amount allocated will enable them, through a convention, to benefit from these treatments in neighbouring countries. We note that few patients currently wish to have access to proton therapy, but this situation may change when further information becomes available. I have never been informed of Mr. Marcourt's goal with this centre. If you have more information, I invite you to share it. It is a scanner that will be installed by the Walloon Region as part of a Marshall Plan. I will ask Mr Prévot what he is planning as an indication and for whom this centre will be intended. This centre will be located in an industrial park, and it does not seem obvious to me for patients to be transported to such a place to pass an examination, where the head of service is an industrial engineer. I have a lot of questions to ask, I hope I will receive information in the coming weeks. In Flanders, it is not only Flemish universities, but also the UCL that is concerned. They have a financial plan. It's obvious that instead of sending our patients abroad, we're going to treat them here in this centre. All I'm saying is that the incidence is not so common in our country so we need more centres. If it is for research, it seems to me more understandable that it is in an industrial park. But that is not within my jurisdiction. I find this very well, I have always been in favour of medical research. That's what I can tell you right now. I'm waiting for information from your Minister of Economy, Mr. Massin. It does not seem obvious to me to send such fragile patients to an industrial park.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u199	Minister, I am particularly surprised at your answer. If you have read my question, you will have found that it is not in an industrial park, but on the campus of the Marie Curie Civil Hospital - which has just been inaugurated. It is practically the most modern care facility in Wallonia, which also works with the GHDC, which aims to build another site in the Charleroi region as part of the various hospital restructurings. So, don't come here to talk about an industrial park! That is not the case at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u200	That's what I read in the papers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u201	Yes, but what I also read in the newspapers is that this project is focused on research. You mention five universities that join forces in Flanders to create a centre for protontherapy. These are four Walloon universities that work together to support a research centre. In addition, the Walloon Region provides financial resources. Beyond the research centre, there is also therapeutic activity. The fundamental question that arises, and I ask you on the basis of your statements, is whether people with cancer who would be receiving therapy on the hospital site and on the GHCD site will be able to benefit from the management by INAMI. In other words, will these patients be reimbursed? I am concerned about your press statements in this regard. In this case, the newspaper L'Echo is well informed. I am referring to your remarks that there would be only one approved centre for the whole of Belgium. This means that patients who would be treated in Charleroi, not Gasthuisberg, would not be reimbursed. Reimbursement would only be permitted if treatment was provided in the proton therapy centre of the latter university hospital. It's pretty clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u202	All I said was that, given the number of patients we have in Belgium who do not even reach a hundred people a year, a centre seems sufficient. If the Minister of the Economy and Scientific Research wants to install another for clear reasons for him, and having never had contact with me, at least we need to get some information from him, and have a discussion with him, to see if we want to have two centers to treat patients. It's obvious!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u203	Minister, you know that this project to establish a protontherapy centre in Charleroi dates back to the time when Minister Demotte was Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health. Don't come here to say we don't know! You, perhaps, as a minister, but the services, and more particularly INAMI, are impossible. I'm telling you that the project began to emerge when Mr.Demotte was a minister, so it's been over ten years. Don't come now to say that you didn't know about it and that you've never been contacted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u204	If we need ten years before the project develops, that's another situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u205	Minister, INAMI's services are well aware of this. When you receive a question, I suppose you are still speaking to the competent services, and therefore to the services of INAMI. Or INAMI is lying to you, and then I'd like to know. This is a care. You have to know what.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u206	What do you want from me? What do you want me to say now, knowing that I don't know the project, and I didn't even know where it was? I'm not used to taking the information, for such important files, in the newspapers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u207	You're the one who made these statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u208	I ask you to ask your minister to inform me. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u209	And your services, which are called INAMI, do not inform you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u210	All I have said is the number of patients now counted in Belgium. A proton therapy center is enough. But since it's about research, as with other specialized scanners, there are programs in which patients are treated. That's all I'm saying. The first to be set up, due to various circumstances, will be in Gasthuisberg. It's true that we've been talking about it for ten years in the Marshall Plan in Wallonia. And now we've found the money. That's good. The funding is absolutely...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u211	Here, it's the same thing. There's not a euro you're asking for. The only thing is to know if a patient, because incidentally he should be treated on the spot, can benefit from the INAMI reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u212	To answer you, I need to know where this centre is and what team will be there to treat patients in case of complications. You think I'm gonna grant the refund like that? I don't have that naivety. I remember the discussions with Mr Demotte as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u213	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u214	I was also on his commission at the time, as was Mr. Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u215	I think the minister's answer is clear even if it does not satisfy you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u216	But come and say we don't know, it's still amazing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u217	The approach to be taken is contained in the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u218	Question No 16893 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux is transformed into a written question, as is question No 16911 by Mrs Anne Dedry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u219	Minister, this Tuesday, February 28, 2017, the European Commission made a new proposal to the Member States on the criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors related to their toxicity to human health. Again, the European Commission has failed to convince a majority of Member States on these proposals which have been considered too lax. Minister, what was the precise content of the European Commission's proposals? What was Belgium's position and on what basis? Finally, what is the timing and what are the new tasks entrusted to the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u220	Gerkens, at the meeting on 28 February 2017, the European Commission did not come with new proposals. The text just included the changes made during the December meeting, but these changes had not already resulted in a qualified majority in December. During the meeting, the Commission explained some points concerning the procedure and interpretation of the text and two amendments were made to the text: firstly, to make the revision clause more concrete in terms of action for the Commission and, secondly, to clarify the scope and exclusion of an intentional endocrine mode of action and to move the paragraph in order to separate it from the explanatory elements of the criteria but still in the annex. For Belgium, the paragraph concerning an exclusion from an intentional mode of action does not fall within the scope of the identification criteria but rather within the scope of the regulatory measures. It may be appropriate to allow certain substances whose mode of action targets the endocrine system of target organisms, but their authorization must be subject to certain conditions. The European Commission has scheduled a further meeting on 7 April on this paragraph, which is a problem for several Member States, but only in the presence of biocidal experts. No date has been set for plant protection products. The file is very complicated but it is progressing. However, until we all agree, there is no agreement. The file is moving in the right direction, contrary to what was happening before.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u221	Indeed, we have already discussed it here and I wanted to know the new elements of the file. I would therefore like to thank you for that clarification. We'll have more items after April 7th.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u222	Question No 17050 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and question No 17090 by Mr Daniel Senesael are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u223	Madam President, Madam Minister, every day the press reveals, to the general astonishment of the citizens, the extremely generous revenues granted by public agents in many public and parastatal structures. Thus, we learned that in the hospitals of the ISPPC (Intercommunal Public Health of the country of Charleroi), the Director General received the remuneration of 334,872 euros gross per year. It's too bad Mr. Massin left. It is not a question of Mr Massin, but of a socialist mayor of the Charleroi region. Of course, my concern is not to make populism properly. Too much. However, may I ask you whether such structures exist in other countries? What wages are paid to their incumbents? Are they also Pharaohic? Minister, I will not limit my criticism to members of the opposition parties alone. I also exclude Ecolo, who is not in this situation, I would like to say so. The way in which our institutions operate and the powers that flow from them concern almost all parties. However, minister, can you tell us how much of this income, which is very generous to many administrators, represents in hospital budgets, which often have budgetary difficulties? Can you tell us the proportion of deficits that a more measured remuneration policy could compensate for, for the benefit of all? At a time when, in order to save our social protection system, the rigorous management policy you are pursuing is necessary, how do you respond to those who, in the opposition, cry out for orfray while colleagues from their parties who sit on these boards earn hundreds of thousands of euros? Madam Minister, how do you act or intend to act, in order to restore order in the remunerations, but also in the composition of the boards of directors of the hospital services, so that the money of the Belgian workers' social contributions goes to their social security cover and not to the creation of substantial assets for certain directors? Since the intercommunals are under the authority of the Regions, have you had encouraging contacts with regard to the rapid and complete implementation of a cadastre of mandates and remunerations in the intercommunal hospitals and its transmission to your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u224	Madam President, my colleague, the remuneration of the management and the members of the board of directors of a hospital is supposed to be covered by the budget subpart B1 of the budget of the financial resources (BMF). This subpart covers on a flat-rate basis the costs of administering a hospital. This is the rule. However, it is impossible to conclude accounting data, which is available to the Public Health FPS, what amounts are spent and to which part of the hospital administration. This means that no specific information is available on the remuneration of individual members of management or management boards. I don't know the case well, but it's complicated. Indeed, I do not think that the allocation of such amounts is possible with the B1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u225	These are own funds in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u226	Other funds will be taken into account. I know a little about hospital financing. The amounts I know through the press are not compatible with the B1. There are other sources of compensation for such an amount. But that is not within my jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u227	As is the case with many specialist doctors, there are sometimes over-payments to attract doctors, but this is done on own funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u228	In any case, what seems extremely interesting to me in what you're saying is that normally B1 should be enough to pay the general manager of a hospital. Secondly, we have obviously taken money – I did not say illegally, but morally, we can discuss – in other posts to achieve this. A salary that is x times that of the Speaker of Parliament or the Prime Ministers, is still a little surprising. That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u229	I can say I was also surprised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u230	Yes, sometimes there are amazing things!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u231	Question No 17119 by Mr Raoul Hedebouw is transformed into a written question. Questions 17120, 17129, 17151 by Miss Yoleen Van Camp are transformed into written questions. Question No 17133 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u232	Madam President, a recent article mentioned that the increased use of generic medicines would save INAMI EUR 150 million and patients EUR 55 million. You yourself have supported this policy, particularly in the context of the agreement with pharmaceutical laboratories. Belgium lags behind its neighbours, but is still increasing from 24 to 30 per cent in the consumption of these drugs. Can you tell us whether this development has become even more pronounced since your drug policy was put in place? Are pharmaceutical laboratories playing a full part in this evolution? What arguments do they make to justify their possible reluctance? What actions are you putting in place to facilitate this transition? Patients still have concerns about the safety and similarity of generic drugs compared to the originals. How do you act or intend to act to dispel the fears of patients who often, for fear of bad reactions, prefer their pharmacist to give them the original medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u233	Mr.Flahaux, regarding my policy, in 2016, 53% of drugs with the cheapest status were prescribed by doctors. This has created a competitive dynamic between pharmaceutical companies with a view to lowering prices. This resulted in a savings of 30 million in 2015. This downward price review mechanism – as on the Stock Exchange! - continues. That's good. We have therefore asked to prescribe more medicines that are cheaper. However, it is important to make it clear that these are not necessarily generics. In fact, originals are also found in the cheapest drawers. Every time a drug gets its price down, competitors also know it and will do the same, taking into account the profile of doctors. We witnessed such a phenomenon when Minister Vandenbroucke had developed a mechanism to promote generics. But in this case, it is also the originals that are concerned. It's good for the patient. It is therefore foolish to ask for further prescriptions, because then the refund will be lower. The patient will pay a lot more because he wants a more expensive medicine. In Belgium, regardless of the price of a drug, the quality remains the same. I'm also thinking about bioavailability. We discussed it 20 years ago. Mrs Gerkens, this is not rejuvenating us! This had started badly at the time, since it was then referred to as "white products" – which damaged the reputation of the medicines concerned. So far, it's been growing every year. Perhaps thanks to the measures taken to reduce the price of medicines. When I started, it was a problem. Cost-effective solutions were found with the voluntary assistance of dentists and physicians. And we had no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u234	Personally, I am very supportive of generic drugs. It is the responsibility of the public authorities to encourage them. Some laboratories already have enough sugar. However, there was this famous story in France, where it appeared that the Servier laboratories were also on the generics review board. As a result, people today have doubts about some generics. Anything that can be done to comfort what you just said is in the right direction. That's the first point. The reduction in the price of some originals is also a good thing. But if I can afford a suggestion... we'll have in a few days an increase in the price of some antibiotics and nasal sprays. It would be interesting to see in the consumer price index what the increase in the drugs we have talked about today represents, on the one hand, and what the decrease in generics represents. It should be considered whether the overall weight of the consumer price index is actually increasing or decreasing. Many articles are published on the subject of increases, but I think it would also be interesting to have an overall study not only of the decreases but of what they represent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u235	At the request of Mrs Özen, excused for medical reasons, I agreed to postpone her question No 17238. Questions No 17248 by Mrs Jiroflée and No 17318 by Mrs Temmerman are transformed into written questions. On the basis of agenda item 110, further requests could be made to defer its questions. Joined Questions No 17332 by Mr Calomne and No 17549 by Mrs Heeren are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u236	Madam President, Minister, the use and reputation of geisha balls to help women rejuvenate their perineum is no longer to be demonstrated. Indeed, this system helps women who come to give birth or who are victims of constipation or face menopause. Women who have had difficult deliveries can also experience this tissue relaxation problem over time. Sexologists, gynaecologists and kines use this instrument to help their patients regain their tonicity, support internal organs and combat incontinence problems. In France, this object is reimbursed by social security but not by us. Minister, is it conceivable that the purchase of such an object, for medical purposes, will be taken over by the INAMI? How many women are affected by this muscle relaxation in Belgium? How much would the cost of this measure be? Is it sustainable for the social security budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u237	Madam Chair, Member of Parliament, your question is about women's privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u238	This proves that I am interested in women!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u239	Certainly! Women may face perineum problems following childbirth, menopause or other reasons. On the other hand, INAMI does not have detailed data on the number of women suffering from muscle relaxation of the perineum. Although in France, geisha balls, also known as Ben Wa balls, are reimbursed, a search in the PubMed database refers only to a study. A Conservative treatment of stress incontinence with Geisha balls by Glavind was published in 2001 in the International Urogynecology Journal and Pelvic Floor Dysfunction. The study only describes the case of six patients – albeit few – who have had therapy using these types of balls. Thus, there is little scientific evidence available that can justify reimbursement of geisha balls by INAMI. Now, my collaborator tells me that we can buy these geisha balls for twelve euros. It's not an insurmountable amount. Nevertheless, the most effective method to drive the perineum muscle is Kegel's exercise. Where appropriate, medicine may prescribe such exercises which consist of alternating contractions and relaxations of the muscles that form the pelvic floor or perineum. Exercise is to be repeated several times a day for a few minutes. From a few weeks on, Kegel's exercise leads to a perineum that increases urine loss and improves sexual life. There, one can prescribe sessions in physiotherapists, but it must be said that they are physiotherapists specialized in this field because in fact, one has to put Kegel in the vagina and then the woman has to contract. The physiotherapist then sees the magnitude of these contractions. The patient has to do the exercise at home. But if, for these exercises, she wants to buy geisha balls, my collaborator tells me that their price is twelve euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u240	Thank you for your answer. I am glad to have put it down, because it is not just women who need to be interested in men, but reciprocalness should also exist. I never had to buy Geisha balls and I don't know the price. You're teaching me. After all, many more things are paid back in pharmacies than that. I understand that this is not the priority. As a result, I have a positive record of your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u241	Madam Chair, the title of the question is not correct because my question is about HIV and its consequences and not at all about medical examinations. There's a copy and paste that went wrong. Since the discovery of HIV, doctors, researchers, as well as people with HIV, have been looking forward to one day defeating this deadly virus. While waiting for this happy day, everything has been done to offer patients ever more effective treatments, with the least possible side effects, so that they can live their pathology in the best possible way, until, finally, a curative treatment will eliminate the virus in all parts of the body. Nevertheless, in addition to persistent side effects, HIV causes an accelerated aging of the body as a result of a permanent inflammatory state. Many attempts have been made by many research centres. Hopes that have always been disappointed but that have not demotivated scientists and allowed them to advance in knowledge of how HIV works and, therefore, in the various ways to combat it. In France, in Sophia Antipolis, the Biosantech laboratory has developed a vaccine candidate, TAT-OYI, whose objective is to neutralize the TAT protein that promotes the multiplication of the virus. On the verge of entering phase 2B of the clinical trial, in order to study the case of patients in retro-seroconversion with discontinuation of tritherapy and observation of a possible functional healing step, i.e. the indetectability of viral cells and particles, three months after the discontinuation of the tritherapy in question, the CNRS has imposed the cessation of any research and communication on the clinical trial. Minister, have you had any information through your current colleague, Marisol Touraine? What are the reasons for this decision? Is this related to the low "cohort" of patients involved in research? The word "cohort" may be a little surprising. Is this due to the doubts expressed by the ANRS about this research? Is it, as the president of the laboratory implies, to protect the financial interests of the laboratories that provide the triple therapies? Can you tell us if this trial will be continued? Minister, can you report on the progress of this research, particularly in Belgium? Is it true that a protocol is being developed in some Belgian hospitals to test vaccines on HIV-positive patients? What is the position of pharmaceutical laboratories that place HIV treatment on the market in response to the occurrence of therapeutic vaccines? I know that, in this respect, we must not feed unsubstantiated hopes that may lead to a relaxation of vigilance in sexual practices. However, Minister, are the ongoing experiments sufficiently encouraging for all HIV-positive patients around the world? I am thinking in particular of third-world countries, some of which see their economic future weakened by endemic HIV. South Africa, in particular, is in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u242	Mr Flahaux, studies of this vaccine in HIV patients are available in the scientific literature. Although this seems very promising, it is still recommended that some caution be observed regarding the results of small-scale studies and on a small number of patients. To the knowledge of the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS), there are no ongoing clinical trials in Belgium for this vaccine. If a vaccine trial was conducted in Belgium, it would be evaluated by the AFMPS and an ethics committee, depending on the location of the trial. Any medicinal product for which a clinical trial application is submitted is evaluated independently of any commercial interest. If there were to be studies in progress without our warning, this would be a serious problem as they should have been submitted to the AFMPS and the ethics committee concerned before they could be conducted. Before an effective therapeutic vaccine can be marketed, other therapies such as those that now exist and continue to be developed will always be needed. Additional therapies will also be needed for patients who do not respond to the vaccine. It is not so obvious to generate an immune response in immunocompromised patients and therefore the results of the study should be expected. We haven't found anything. This may still happen, but to have a study, it is necessary to have the opinion of an ethics board and the approval of the AFMPS for safety reasons for the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u243	Madam Minister, thank you. I know that she is only here for three weeks, but could you ask your colleague, Mrs Touraine, about the reasons for the judgment in France? Can I also ask the secretariat to rename the issue differently and instead indicate as "new HIV vaccine"? Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u244	We'll see because I think Mrs. Touraine's in the election.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u245	Probably!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u246	Ms Jadin requested the postponement of her question No 17399.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u247	Minister, the Constitutional Court issued its ruling on the application for annulment of sections 11 and 12 of the Act of 10 July 2016. It does not affect Article 12 but cancels the provisions of Article 11 considering that they cause serious harm to professionals who, before the entry into force of the law, were practising as psychotherapists, in accordance with the provisions of the Law of 4 April 2014 which was also to enter into force on 1 September 2016. It therefore considers that this Article undermines the legitimate expectations of the persons concerned, without any compelling reason in the public interest being able to justify the absence of a transitional regime for them. It is considered that the principle of legitimate expectations and legal certainty has been infringed. I do not go into the details but it follows from this judgment that persons who, before the coming into force of the law, practiced psychotherapy without meeting the requirements of the law of July 2016 may continue to practice this practice until the legislator takes the necessary transitional measures to remedy the unconstitutionality found by the court. Minister, how are you going to follow up on this decision? Will the associations of psychotherapists concerned be met again, in order to reach the most just and appropriate solution with regard to these quality psychotherapists and the people benefiting from their psychotherapies?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u248	Mrs Gerkens, I have taken note of the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 16 March 2017. A legal analysis of this judgment is under way. Based on this analysis, I will decide whether a legal amendment is necessary. Since other appeals are currently pending, I cannot move on to this matter. However, I can inform you that my current priority is the implementation of the law of 10 July 2016, namely the constitution of the Federal Council for Mental Health Care Professions. Once this advice board is set up, it will be able to form working groups on various topics including psychotherapy. The working groups will be composed of members of the Council as well as external experts. It must be said that Article 11 as a whole was not annulled. It's just a game. For the rest, we can continue the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u249	Absolutely, but you didn't answer the question about a psychotherapist association meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u250	I think the point of view has been known since the hearings we had, etc. This work must not be repeated. We both still have something else to do. We'll see when the Federal Council looks at this. Moreover, as I said, other remedies are pending. It will be for the Council to invite representatives or experts. It was just the part about the possibilities of transition. They say it's not wide enough, but for us it was. This is the subject of the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u251	If I understand your answer correctly, the members are appointed and the Mental Health Professions Council and the working groups are composed, and they will try to find a solution, possibly by meeting with the organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u252	But before that, we're looking at this judgment. I asked for a legal opinion. It is not in a week that such an opinion is obtained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u253	That's right. I encourage you, however. Even though the discussions have already taken place, although there are disagreements, I think it may be interesting to continue to think together about the solutions to be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u254	The other questions were postponed except for question No 17431 by Mrs Muylle, who had asked to turn it into a written question. So there'll be just nine points.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u255	I think she could come here. Because several of his questions have already been deleted from two or three sessions. If she doesn't want to come, you don't have to let her do all this work...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u256	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u257	A little respect for the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u258	We'll get him the message. So there will be only nine points for the next time. It was the parliamentarians who asked for the postponement; it was not you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic635x.u259	However, we have made a great effort to make up for the delay, but there are still issues that lack interest.
