ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, Good morning to everyone . Debates of the European Parliament 17573 by Mrs Hufkens has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u2	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, citizens can find products in businesses that benefit from quality labels and certificates of excellence of all kinds. This information on packaging can convince us to buy certain items and producers therefore do not hesitate to use them to sell their goods. Today, these statements are legion and refer to more or less specific considerations: "Agriculture of Wallonia", "Zero pesticide residue", "Belge", "Better for all", "Organic farming", "Consensual selection", "European biolabel", etc. Consumers have a choice, but often they get lost. Of course, the European bodies have already helped to put some order in the field by proposing, in particular, the "Protected Designations of Origin" (PDOs), the "Protected Geographical Indications" (PGIs) or the "Traditional Specialties Guaranteed" (TSGs). However, an increased effort to streamline the various labels in order to protect consumers through better product information may be necessary. Mr Minister, what is the state of play on this subject in Belgium, but also at European level, in order to strengthen the clarification of the landscape of quality labels and certificates of excellence for consumers? What are the current product labelling guarantees? In concrete terms, what benchmarks and obligations are imposed on producers who sell their products on the market? Thank you already for all your answers, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u3	Mr President, Mr Calomne, there are indeed a number of labels and particulars which may appear on food labels. Some labels are recognised and harmonised by European legislation and correspond to strict specifications: EU organic logos, quality labels (PDOs, etc.). Some of the labels belong to regional bodies responsible for the promotion of agricultural products, but many of them are part of national or international private initiatives: producers, industries, distributors, independent bodies. These organisations are free to set up labels on a voluntary basis if they consider that they have added value. Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 on consumer information on food provides a clear labelling framework for all operators in the food chain. This legislation allows voluntary information to be communicated to consumers, for example, via labels or specific statements, provided that it is not misleading, ambiguous or confusing to the consumer and does not encroach on the space available for mandatory information. In this context, the Economic Inspectorate has the possibility to act against the misleading use of labels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u4	Deputy Prime Minister, I am not opposed to the initiatives of private bodies that contribute to providing more information about the product on sale, provided that this information is not fraudulent or misleading to consumers. It is not always obvious to the consumer to find themselves there in the multitude of denominations and designations, official or informal. This gives rise to a reflection on the harmonisation or clarification of this information, while respecting the freedom of the various producers to choose names to qualify their products. Consumers need to be better informed because sometimes they can get lost in all these names.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u5	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in his magazine Brussels Métropole, BECI, the Brussels Chamber of Commerce, looked at the potential of the various sectors of the economy whose products and services meet the demand and specific needs of the elderly at the beginning of the legislative term. While population ageing is often perceived only in terms of financing public policies, it also represents new economic opportunities linked to the increasing adaptation of entire sectors to "silver hair": from leisure to transport, to safety, sport, telephony and health. This is commonly referred to as the silver economy. According to this body, over the next 15 years, the share of citizens over the age of 65 in the Belgian population is expected to rise from 17% to almost 23%, a fairly significant increase. It is therefore a significant and growing market for Brussels-based companies. In addition, it appears that seniors are a consumer category made up mainly of owners, who account for 80% of savings, buy 50% of new cars, concentrate 65% of the expenditure on restaurants, leisure and travel, or are responsible for 78% of beauty care purchases. De facto, many companies have already taken the leap forward by innovating with new goods and services, particularly in the financial products, food, housing and televigilance sectors. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, do your departments have an overall assessment of the "senior economy" in our country and more detailed data on the outlook for business development? Could you, if necessary, provide us with the outline and developments since 2014? In addition, has a silver economy strategy been planned or developed by your services? Where appropriate, what measures are currently being developed to support the business potential in the face of these new opportunities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u6	Mr Calomne, my services did not carry out an overall assessment of the elderly economy and its new needs. However, it is indeed important to pay particular attention to the ageing of the population and the resulting economic challenges. According to Eurostat figures, average household consumption expenditure almost doubled between 1988 and 2010 for persons over 60 years of age, while expenditure increased by only 67.8% for persons between 30 and 45 years of age. I am well aware of the potential for growth and the economic importance of the silver economy. Many sectors can be affected by aging, such as health, home maintenance, organic food, housing equipment, media consumption, Horeca, tourism, but also the real estate, financial and leisure sectors. Companies must also take into account the consumption habits of older people. In fact, seniors consume differently, depending on their real needs, the most important of which are the maintenance of their health and quality of life, financial security and, above all, contact with family and friends. No specific strategy has been foreseen by my services. Nevertheless, the federal government remains attentive to initiatives that promote the quality of life of our seniors and create jobs. Private initiatives that contribute to this must have every opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u7	Vice-Prime Minister, I am pleased with your interest in this new economy, which carries with it development and job creation. While there is no initiative at the federal and public sector levels, I am pleased to see that you will be attentive to the private initiatives that will be taken in this framework to better support them. The authorities must support this movement, which, I am sure, can also contribute to the development of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u8	Mr President, Minister, the European Commission has decided to take a position on the collaborative economy. This new form of economy raises many challenges and poses a huge challenge for modern society. During the presentation of your policy note, we had the opportunity to discuss it. On 2 June 2016, the Commission presented several recommendations to the European Parliament with a view to liberalising the sector, while providing a minimum. It announces amounts ranging from €160 billion to €570 billion to describe the capital that could be generated by the collaborative economy. Finally, on 3 May, the European Parliament adopted a non-binding resolution calling on the Member States to standardize their rules in terms of collaborative economy. As I know that you have started working on this subject, my questions are about the progress of your projects in this area and whether they are following the path taken by the European Parliament. Mr Minister, can you give me an overview of what recommendations the Commission has sent to the European Parliament about the Belgian market? What about the recent European Parliament resolution? Some of the European Commission's recommendations concern areas where Belgium has already advanced. Are they likely to call into question our country's current progress in guiding the collaborative economy? Together with your colleague Alexander De Croo and other European ministers, you signed a letter to the Commission asking it not to put in place a too specific legal framework. Can you tell us a little more? In its communication to the European Parliament, the Commission expresses its readiness to cooperate with the Member States. Are there any discussions with her on this? It is because this new economic model seems to me to occupy an important place, that I would like to ask you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u9	Mrs Winckel, the European Parliament's recommendations are not addressed to the Member States, but to the Commission, which is asked to check whether an amendment to the rules in force is necessary and to draw up guidelines to distinguish between "pairs" and "professionals". I also have some concerns about consumer protection and the balance to be struck between stimulating this new form of economy and respecting the rules of the game in legal terms, in order to preserve equality with the players in the traditional market. Thus, I look forward to the Commission's assessment. However, this does not mean that I will not take initiatives until it gives its opinion. As far as my competences are concerned, I have recently asked the various economic sectors in order to obtain their views on the adequacy of the rules in force and on the advisability of regulating the development of the collaborative economy. Their answers should be available at the end of June; I am waiting for them by Friday. The letter you mentioned was only signed by my colleague, Alexander De Croo, as Minister for the Digital Agenda. The problem cited in this letter concerned only the point of digital platforms. I therefore propose that you ask him to take stock of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u10	Mr Minister, you say that the recommendations are addressed to the Commission and not to the Member States, but the Commission did, in particular on 2 June 2016, ask the Member States to take legal guidance on the matter in relation to a note they have already issued. It is an excellent thing to have consulted the sectors and to see the answers they will lead to reflection. I will allow myself to come back to the subject at the beginning of the year. This will give you time to read the answers that will be given to you. It is really a sector of the future that needs to be able to fit as well as possible in order for it to be as optimal as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Winckel. I conclude that the incident is closed but that the file remains complete and open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u12	Mr President, Minister, a narrow rate parity clause is imposed by some online reservation centres, such as Booking.com or Expedia, on their Horeca partners. It prohibits the latter from offering a tariff advantage on their website, whatever the price, at the prices displayed on the website of the platforms in question. In view of the importance of these platforms in recent years, tourist accommodation establishments cannot refuse this clause. This principle runs counter to free competition, both in relation to the other platforms operating honestly as intermediaries and to hotels and other establishments, which are deprived of their freedom of pricing. The sector has been complaining about this for several years. In this context, the Belgian Competition Authority carried out a monitoring semester, the first assessment of which was to take place in July 2016. The second was to be completed by early 2017. I have already asked your colleague Mr Willy Borsus about this. On 12 February, he indicated in the committee that an inquiry to the Belgian Competition Authority was not the best way to act in this case, but that the door was not closed. He intended to work with you on this issue. Minister, what were the conclusions of the Belgian Competition Authority in its July 2016 and early 2017 monitoring semesters? Has an application been filed with the Belgian Competition Authority? In general, on the eve of the holiday, can you take stock of this important issue? I don't think there are many regulatory changes to this issue, and I wanted to see if you were ready to take the lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u13	Mr President, Minister, we read in the press that Horeca Flanders calls on you and your colleague, Minister Borsus, to work on a new regulation on the rules that booking websites for hotels impose on the participating hotels. These booking websites would force participating hotels to always offer the lowest price through the booking websites. Hotels are forbidden to offer better promotions through their own website. In addition, hotels have to pay a substantial commission fee for an entry on the website. Given the market share of these booking websites, hotel operators have no choice but to comply with these mandatory rules. Action has already been taken on these practices in the neighbouring countries. For example, hotels in France and Germany can offer a lower price on their own website. The aim of this regulation is, on the one hand, to protect the hotel sector but, on the other hand, to allow the free market to play to the benefit of consumers. My questions are as follows. Firstly, will you respond to the call of the hotel sector by introducing regulations that prohibit mandatory rules in breach of free competition due to booking websites? Secondly, do you have any knowledge of European initiatives in this area? If not, will you yourself take an initiative to harmonise this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u14	Mr President, Minister, my two fellow Members have already outlined the problem sufficiently and I shall confine myself to my questions. I have already asked you a written question on this subject and your reply showed that you had already consulted the online reservation centres. It also showed that you are a man of dialogue and would like to sit around the table with all parties. I would therefore like to know whether there has been any consultation with the catering sector and whether you can give some explanation. My fellow Members have already referred to the European Commission working group, which published a report at the beginning of April. Has the Belgian Competition Authority already initiated an investigation in order to maintain control of the sector? Can further conclusions be drawn from this? The problem was raised in the press and by fellow Members. Do you think it is necessary to take a legislative initiative in this area in order to resolve the problem? If so, will you take your own initiative? The online reservation centres are of course active not only in Belgium, but also in other European countries. Can you explain how other European countries deal with this? Is there any other legislation applicable there? Are there any examples that we could follow?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u15	On 8 June I consulted the international management of Booking.com. In the meantime, I have also been in contact with the Flemish, Brussels and Walloon Catering Federations. They have explained to me the problems they experience with online reservation centres. They ask for a legal solution to the use of the parity clause, in particular the narrow price parity clause. I have confirmed that I will take the problem to heart. As Minister responsible for Consumers, I also planned a meeting with Test-Achats/Test-Achats, to make sure that I have heard all the parties before intervening. The parties are therefore the Booking.com company, which has clearly explained its position, the Catering Federations, which have asked for a legislative initiative on the narrow price parity clause, and Test-Achats, with which I will have a meeting on 5 July, because I also want to hear the representatives of consumers on this issue. The monitoring of the hotel sector by the Competition Authority has not led to unambiguous results. The European Commission and the national competition authorities have therefore decided to continue to monitor this sector. It was also agreed that all new investigations and market analyses will be coordinated with the European Network of Competition Authorities. The Belgian Competition Authority itself indicated that it did not have specific elements justifying the opening of a new investigation. It is not yet appropriate to make statements on how to solve this problem at the present time. As I have already said, I would first like to hear Test-Achats about this. Secondly, and on the basis of the information I have collected, I will decide how best to solve this problem for the Belgian hotel sector. It is important to put all the elements together. Mr Janssen, you are right to say that this ban has already been introduced in a number of other countries. France and Austria have introduced a legal ban on the application of price parity clauses. Again, this is the scary one, because the spacious one has already been solved. A legislative initiative on this subject is also being developed in Italy. In Germany, the use of this clause is prohibited by a decision of the competition authority, but that decision is challenged. I will look at this with open eyes and with all the elements and do not exclude that we will take a legal initiative to introduce this ban in Belgium. However, I would first like to listen to the consumers because a lot of them are now going to Booking.com and have the certainty that the lowest price will be displayed there. As you said, even on your own website you should not offer a lower price. I understand that this is a serious handicap for many hoteliers. I want to discuss with Test Purchasing whether the consumer is better off when we ban it. I'll probably take an initiative after a well-deserved vacation for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u16	Minister, thank you for your precise answer. It is important to take the necessary time for consultation. My group had tabled a bill on the matter. We also took the time to meet with the various stakeholders involved in the case, whether they are representatives of the hotel sector, representatives of platforms such as Booking, or Test-Achats. We proposed to remove this narrow tariff parity clause and to ensure that it could no longer be adopted. I think these platforms are good. They bring positive things to the sector. Indeed, the horeca sector was heavily affected, especially during 2016. We must be able to support it, while admitting that the platforms bring positive elements, because they allow us to centralise the hotel offer and highlight smaller hotel structures. So you have to be able to juggle both. However, I believe that large companies like Booking or Expedia will not be harmed if this narrow rate parity clause is removed. The dynamics could remain the same. Take the time of the concertation! Other countries have already acted. We cannot say that France is not a tourist country and I think we could follow what it has undertaken in this area. We will allow ourselves to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u17	Minister, Mrs Winckel has already said a great deal in her reply that we also want to say. I would like to make one more comment. It is true that currently no cheaper price can be offered on its own website, but it is of course allowed to communicate with the hotels by phone or by mail and then the hotels may offer lower prices. This should also be highlighted, because many consumers do not know that. Of course, it's not always interesting when you live in Belgium and book a trip abroad to call off all those hotels, because then you may have spent more on phone calls than the amount of the discount compared to Booking.com. Or another provider, because of course it's not just Booking.com that uses this. We will follow it and hopefully get an answer after the recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u18	Minister, I am glad that you are once again engaging in dialogue with all the parties involved in this dossier, because it is true that there is usually only one clock in the newspaper. It is important that you bring everyone involved around the table and listen to their stories, also to see what the impact of a decision can be. I am pleased that you are entering into the dialogue. I also welcome the fact that you are going there with open eyes, because you are absolutely not ruling out the need for a legislative initiative if there is a problem. That needs to be cleared up first. Is there a problem right now or not? Thank you for your answer. I wish you every success in the negotiations. And we are, of course, looking forward to the follow-up that is being given to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u19	Mr President, Minister, at the end of 2016, you indicated to Parliament the beginning of a wave of controls on electric bicycles. On the basis of samples of bicycles collected from different points of sale, both technical and administrative checks had to be carried out. How many controls have been carried out? What are the numbers in your possession in relation to these? As the minister responsible for consumer protection in particular, what is your assessment of the situation? Are there any new controls to be foreseen? It is an expanding sector; it would be interesting to know the results of the checks carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, I will try to be very brief. Following a call for tenders, this procurement was awarded to an external laboratory. At the moment, a total of eight models of electric bicycles are being tested at the technical level. These are long-term tests whose results are expected during the summer holidays. It is therefore too early to draw conclusions. Once the tests and administrative control have been completed, a campaign report will be published, I hope after the holidays – for the third time, Mr President!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u21	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, we are therefore aware of the issues that will be discussed at the beginning of the year because I will deal with the subject again at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u22	Minister, this question follows your answer to a previous parliamentary question. You then told me that various measures had been taken concerning several connected toys, including Test-Achats, on December 6, 2016, denouncing the lack of security and the lack of respect for privacy. These measures include monitoring of websites, an informative survey and the solicitation of other national consumer protection services. Minister, what can you do to date to take stock of the measures already taken, particularly with regard to the solicitation of foreign services? A joint meeting between the European national authorities was to be organised by the European Commission. What came out of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u23	Mrs Winckel, in the Netherlands as in Belgium, "My friend Cayla" was temporarily sold, but this is no longer the case. This is why the Nederlandse Authoriteit Consumption & Markt does not consider this a priority for the moment and is not aware of any other initiative regarding toys connected to the Netherlands. In Germany, the Bundesnetzagentur, competent in the fight against espionage, removed the Cayla doll from the market on 17 February 2017. In France, the consumer protection authority considers that the privacy rules are very clear. In Belgium, the Economic Inspectorate monitored the websites in order to verify the sales channels for the toys in question. An informational survey was also carried out among the companies that offered these toys for sale at a given time in order to verify the effective stoppage of sales. The toys concerned are no longer found at the Belgian sales outlets of toy sellers and are no longer available for sale on their websites in Belgium. On 23 March 2017, the European Commission organised a joint meeting between the consumer protection authorities and the privacy authorities. Particular emphasis has been placed on the Norwegian authorities, which are carrying out in-depth research on this subject. The latter will keep the other Member States informed of the results. The theme remains on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u24	Minister, thank you. It is good to have acted in this area and to have removed these toys from the market. These connected toys announce new issues such as privacy. Should we not consider amending the relevant legislation to protect ourselves from the sale of such toys? Should not legislation be strengthened or improved? In this case, it is good that the toys in question could have been removed from the sale. We await the continuation of the Committee's work on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u25	Mr President, Minister, this is the fourth question I am asking today about new technologies, which shows that they bring good things, but they also raise new issues that need to be addressed. At the beginning of 2017, we found out how dangerous the technology in general and that of USB drives, particularly in terms of consumer protection and privacy, can be. Firstly, there is what is called in France "the scams to the USB drive": individuals discover USB drives in their mailbox, insert them without paying attention to them in their computer and see themselves stolen their private data. The USB drive is actually infested with a powerful virus. Second, there's the USB Killer. Under this barbaric name, we find a USB stick, sold about 50 d€ on the internet, which allows to destroy any smartphone, tablet or laptop by delivering electrical impulses. This product is not new but has recently been improved to make it even more powerful. One minute would be enough to burn a whole system. If the sale is legal, use for purposes other than testing is strictly prohibited, subject to judicial sanctions. Minister, is Belgium affected by the phenomenon of usb stick scams? Have any contacts been made with the French authorities or other national authorities? What about the European Union? What legal framework does it apply in practice to USB Killer sold in our territory? What are the possible sanctions? As a result of recent improvements to the system, are further measures planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, the Economic Inspectorate has confirmed to me that I have not received any signals in relation to the two types of scams that you have raised. If you have other information, it will be very useful to me and to the Economic Inspectorate; it will allow us to benefit from concrete dossiers that we can examine. At this point, we are not in possession of the same information as you. The Administration also consulted with the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU), the Center for Cyber Security Belgium (CCB), the Certified Information Privacy Technologist (CIPPT) and the Privacy Commission. All these bodies have confirmed that we are not aware of such scams in Belgium. I therefore ask you, for the second time, if you have any other information, to send it to us so that we can actually examine it. The legal rules that may apply to the cases raised are part of the ordinary law. With regard to possible damage and the problem of privacy, I refer you to my colleagues Koen Geens and Philippe De Backer. For the third time, I am ready to review all the information you have received.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u27	Minister, thank you for your brief answer. As I point out in my question about the USB stick scam with private individuals, this is happening in France. Since France is next to Belgium, I wanted to know if there were any similar cases in our country. I don't know. I live near the French border, and I was alerted. The second problem with the USB Killer is that it is a USB drive sold on the internet. You have to be aware of that. I wonder whether the legislation is sufficiently precise in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u28	Mr President, Minister, for several years, under a legal obligation, petrol pumps have a calibration set at a temperature of 15 degrees Celsius. De facto, regardless of room temperature, the customer will always have a full amount of gasoline equivalent to that temperature. Depending on the weather, the fuel expands or contracts depending on whether the temperature is above or below the threshold of 15 degrees Celsius. Without calibration of petrol pumps, it would be difficult to provide a constant supply of fuel to customers. This calibration is based on an electronic gauge placed in the pump tank which calculates the number of litres of gasoline actually pumped at a reference temperature. The motorist thus has the assurance that the number of litres displayed on the panel of a pump equals the number of litres transferred to his tank. However, it appears, following the controls conducted by the SPF Economy in 2016, that 12 per cent of petrol pumps would be poorly regulated in our country. If my information is correct, the firefighters concerned would face a fine of up to EUR 3 000. At the same time, many customers may not have obtained the volume of fuel paid when they were purchased. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Can you confirm the percentage of incorrectly calibrated petrol pumps? What measures are being taken to improve the situation? Finally, do you possibly have a financial estimate of the loss to customers of non-compliant petrol pumps?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u29	Mr President, Mr Calomne, ladies and gentlemen, 7,332 petrol pumps were checked in 2016. Of these, 4,921 were administrative checks on the presence of required marks of conformity, an annual periodic check by an approved inspection body and the presence of a temperature compensation to convert the volume to 15 degrees C. 82% of the pumps were in order, 18% were not. 2 411 pumps were checked during which precision tests were also carried out. In this regard, only 22 of them (0.9%) were rectified due to too wide a measurement gap. For non-compliant petrol pumps, the Metrology Department has taken the measures planned, ranging from a warning to a proposal for a transaction and the referral of the case to the Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, the Metrology Service continues to carry out numerous inspections on the ground on an annual basis. Exceeding the maximum permissible measurement error of 0.5% as well as the absence of a temperature compensation can be both beneficial and detrimental to the customer. My administration does not have any evidence that errors systematically benefit either party.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u30	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his reply and I note that although the number of cases of non-compliant pumps is relatively limited, there are still a few cases which, as you have said, do not necessarily have to be at the expense of the consumer, but it is still important to ensure the viability and credibility of the sector and the consumer must also be in good condition so that controls can be carried out and the pumps which would be defective in this respect can be remedied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u31	Mr Minister, a few months ago I noticed with you that the hotline Terap broke down from Test-Achats in a very short time could receive more than four thousand complaints from consumers about the lifespan of purchased products. In the meantime, the counter for this problem stands at 6,000 reports. Following my previous question on this subject, you proposed a number of initiatives to examine the subject further, with a view to a more comprehensive guarantee scheme. At that time, you were waiting for an opinion from the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs and the Council for Consumption on your proposals in this area. You were due to receive those advice at the end of February. You also announced that you ordered a study from the FPS Economy on the sustainability of consumer goods and artificial ageing. Based on a press article, I learned that the study of the FPS Economy has produced results in the meantime. The study shows hardly proven cases of programmed aging. However, a number of recommendations were made. In addition, you would insist at European level on a uniform guarantee scheme for consumer goods. In the meantime, have you received the opinions of the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs and the Council for Consumption? If so, what opinion was it drawn up on the extension of the guarantee scheme? What measures are highlighted in the study of the FPS Economy on the sustainability of consumer goods and artificial ageing? In what period can we expect further initiatives on the extension of the guarantee scheme and the adaptation of producers to the lifespan of consumer goods? What initiatives have you taken at European level to ensure uniform arrangements for the guarantee of consumer goods?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u32	Mr Janssen, I have indeed received the opinions of the Council for Consumption and the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs. These opinions are available on the websites of the FPS Economy and the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, as can be expected, there is no consensus in the opinions on the extension of the legal guarantee. For example, consumer representatives are in favour of an extension of the time limit for the reversal of the burden of proof and an extension of the guarantee period for certain goods. The company's representation is against that. More importantly, the small and medium-sized organisations want to shorten the period during which the legal presumption applies. There are also differing views on the possibility for consumers to contact the manufacturer directly. Consumers believe that the seller, thus the retailer, should be the first contact point. The representatives of the professionals consider that the consumer already has this choice under the rules on hidden defects. Small and medium-sized enterprises consider that the consumer should not turn directly to the manufacturer until the trader does not wish to intervene. There was no consensus among professionals on the measures to improve the position of the retailer in terms of legal guarantee and his right to redress. The study proposes 10 measures to extend the lifespan. The measures have an impact on the different stages of the lifetime of the products, in particular on the design, purchase, use and repair phase. The measures contain an important chapter containing information obligations on lifetime, warranty and recovery, as well as some fiscal measures. When the study was discussed in committee on 12 July, it could be discussed in more detail if necessary. I understand, Mr President, that this will be discussed on 12 July. We have certainly become smarter, but therefore not wiser with all these advices. I will make a proposal on the adjustment of the guarantee scheme this year. I'll keep that commitment, too. In the area of sustainability, my colleague Marie-Christine Marghem is competent. Following the two directives proposed by the European Commission at the end of 2015, our country has taken a clear position. We support better consumer protection in terms of guarantee, but we do not agree with a different guarantee regime for goods purchased at a distance and for goods sold in a physical shop. In fact, we are not alone with that vision. I hope that you too will be able to endorse that view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. We are initially looking forward to the discussion on 12 July. I understand that you will make a proposal to amend the guarantee scheme. We shall also look at this in the autumn. You will probably be able to expect further questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u34	Minister, an investigation conducted by Test-Achats in 57 conventional tanning centres, 14 automated centres, 29 beauty institutes and 17 fitness and wellness centres revealed that most of these centres did not comply with the legislation in force. In an interview on this subject, you indicated that, last year, 199 tanning centres had been checked and that 1,214 offences with a real health risk had been found. In other words, 94% of businesses are in violation. Several seizures took place and a number of seals were placed. With a view to protecting the health of consumers and enforcing the law, you have drawn up the Royal Decree of 22 December 2016 which requires, among other things, the various tanning centres concerned to identify themselves with the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises by 1 March 2017 in order to organise the surveys in the sector in an optimal manner. You promised to carry out even more checks. In addition, the Higher Council of Health was asked two years ago to give an opinion on this issue. This opinion would make it possible to consider other avenues for strengthening consumer protection. Minister, the news is putting the subject on the agenda. Thus, in its opinion, the Higher Council of Health would like the removal of solar benches pure and simple. How many tanning centres were identified by the Business Carrefour Bank as there was an obligation for March 1, 2017? What is the procedure for identifying centres that have not been identified with the Banque Carrefour des Entreprises? What penalty is provided for centres that do not comply with this obligation? Test-Achats suggests that a tanning centre be controlled when it is opened and then every two years. What is your position on this point? Minister, I would also like to know what your position is on the report that has been provided to us, which calls for pure and simple removal of solar benches. Finally, in September, you proposed that solariums could display a health warning. It had to be clearly stated that the use of solar benches increases the risk of cancer, but there could also be a label. What's the status of this label? It would be interesting today to take stock. We're playing with people's health. It is realized that the sector does not implement all the rules and does not comply with all its obligations. I wanted your opinion on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux has set the stage well. So I'm not going to repeat what he said. Mr Minister, you informed me that a royal decree would enter into force on 1 March 2017 and that it would invite companies operating solar banks to register under a new NACE-BEL code. You also announced that, by that date, an information campaign for consumers would be organised. Again in this prevention effort, you would inform that controls in this sector would continue during this year at a pace similar to that of 2016. You have recently indicated in the press that you would like a mention to be placed visibly at the entrance of tanning centres, in order to make it clear that "violet rays can cause skin cancer and seriously damage the eyes". Minister, four months after the coming into force of this royal decree, what first assessment can you draw from its application? Have solar bank operators been receptive to these new measures? As we arrive in mid-2017, can you give us an indication of the results of the checks that have already taken place? What comparison do you make with the first half of 2016? What about the consumer information campaign? Why could it not be organised as early as 1 March, as you announced to me in response to a question asked on 17 January? It is indeed a good time to launch an information campaign, since it is at that time that consumers begin to engage in solar benches. Finally, can you provide us with an update on this issue and the objectives you expect to achieve?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u36	Mrs Cassart-Milleux and Mrs Winckel, I prepared a bilingual answer, since Mrs Van Camp had also introduced a question. The obligation for solar centres to designate a specific NACE BEL code in the registration with the CBO is a fact. The Royal Decree of 22 December 2016 entered into force on 1 March 2017. On 23 June 817 companies were registered with the specific NACE BEL code. Excuse me. The date is June 23, 2017. On 23 June 2017, 817 companies were registered with the specific NACE BEL code 9604002. Together they counted 903 units where there is a solar center. These units are spread over the three regions as follows: Flanders has 610 units, Wallonia 255 units and the Brussels-Capital Region 38 units. Between 1 June and 23 June, there were an additional 100 companies in the sector. The data from the KBO do not allow to know more information about the type of solar center. There is no specific procedure for identifying companies that have failed to fulfil their obligations in relation to the specific NACE-BEL code. The Economic Inspectorate obviously has several tools to do this, such as signals via the point of contact, advertisements, information on the Internet or the Golden Pages directory. The company remaining in default commits a criminal offence and can therefore be prosecuted. Criminal sanctions range from €208 to €300,000. The efforts made by the Economic Inspectorate in this domain are maintained. I decided that this year the same number of solar centres would be checked as last year. These checks will, of course, now also check the correct registration in the FBO. With regard to the investigations conducted in 2017, according to the figures of the Economic Inspectorate, 158 tanning centres were checked. This is obviously a provisional figure. I asked for a report from the administration for the first half of 2017. Only one out of four controlled centres was in order; 238 solar benches were checked for radiation intensity. This radiation was too high for more than one bench in three. Where these figures may lead us to believe that there has been some improvement, although still far too small, the evolution of radiation seems to be negative. Too many controlled benches exceed the standard. As far as the Higher Council of Health is concerned, its College approved the opinion on solar benches on 7 June. As you know, the opinion was published yesterday. With regard to the proposal from Test-Achats, it seems to me that such an approach does not give any more guarantees that tanning centres will be in order during the period between two controls, since these controls become predictable. I have prepared a series of new measures on which I have consulted the stakeholders. A royal decree on this matter was notified to the European Commission a few weeks ago. The draft was also submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. The objective I am aiming at is simple: to protect the consumer and his health by strict compliance with the rules. Finally, a word about the consumer information campaign. It was launched in early April. A brochure, questions and answers were prepared. On the SPF Economy website, a specific page has been created. The consumer is informed about the dangers of exposure to ultraviolet radiation. Social media campaigns were conducted during the month of May to raise awareness among consumers. As I said yesterday, the opinion of the Higher Council of Health is launched with the clear message to introduce a total refusal. I reacted yesterday in a press release stressing the importance of the opinion, as health is a priority issue. Today I have a meeting with the European Commissioner to discuss standards at European level. We have launched the possibility of banning solar banks in Belgium, but I do not think that is very wise. There is no problem in France or Germany. This discussion will take place tonight with the European Commissioner. I also invited representatives from the sector for a discussion. Indeed, when the rules are not respected, there is a problem! If it is not possible for the sector to comply with the regulation, the next step is very clear. Anyway, we have to react wisely. That is why I drafted a royal decree, which must be submitted to the Council of State and to the European level. I hope that this royal decree will be approved in early September. As with cigarette consumption, the message to pass on is very clear: the use of solar benches can give cancer to its users!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u37	Minister, thank you for your full answer and your frankness. In September, I would like to obtain the report you requested from the administration, in order to be able to analyse its observations. This is a problem: there are European standards, regulations and rules that the sector does not apply. When you do not comply with the rules and, in addition, you play with the health of the citizen, there is a real concern! Minister, I am counting on you. We must be able to discuss again with the sector because such strong and hard measures cannot be taken without concerted action. But it's clear that you have to pull the alarm bell and be careful. The next step is obvious, as you say. But before we get to this stage, it is important to meet the sector and see what Europe thinks of it. We will return to you after the leave to examine the positions you will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u38	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answer. This subject is very important. I take it from your answer that, during the previous checks, only one in four centres was in order. These numbers are quite intriguing. We are talking about consumer protection, but this is clearly a question of health! We will be waiting for the results of your meeting this evening as well as the report that is due to be released in September. It is important to discuss with the sector, because if there is only one in four centres that are in order, they need to be stimulated and made more aware of the problem. We must do this all the more because the Higher Council of Health has highlighted the fact that Belgium seems to be one of the European countries where the solar bench is most widely used. Apparently, in 2015, 14% of the Belgian population would have used it. I think that a shocking campaign like the one you mentioned in your answer, like the actions taken against smoking, could be interesting and shake the minds of the users.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u39	Mr President, I would like to make a small correction: the meeting with European Commissioner Bienkowska is scheduled for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u40	Thank you for that clarification, Minister. You'll have been accurate to the end of this file. I'm going to consider that the incident is temporarily closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u41	Mr Lachaert is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u42	Minister, in April last year we adopted a series of recommendations in response to the diesel gates scandal. The recommendations were made on various subjects. In addition to the recommendations, we have also asked the government to draw up an action plan and to hold a debate in each committee responsible within six months on the progress of the implementation of the recommendations. The government also promised to draw up a table containing an overview of the follow-up to the recommendations and the implementation of the action plan. Mr Minister, can you explain the latest version of the follow-up table? Can you give us the action plan with a timing of the actions you and your colleagues will take, because this is spread across different areas of competence? Could you, in consultation with the respective committee chairmen, draw up an agenda to discuss the follow-up to the diesel gate dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u43	I understand that the Prime Minister delivered the follow-up table on written question No. 208 by Mr Nollet. It was then about a state of affairs on 23 February. Of course, progress has been made since then. I would like to inform you of this in relation to my powers. In order to discuss the follow-up, I do not have the ambition to set an agenda for all the ministers and committees involved, should I be able to do so, but to provide additional information on what has been entrusted to me. Mr Lachaert also had a number of specific questions, which I also give immediately. Then you can inform your colleague. On 6 June 154 703 of the 288 821 vehicles concerned registered in Belgium were updated. If you can quickly calculate that is 54 %. The customer can postpone his appointment or have an update performed during a workshop visit that was already planned for other reasons, such as maintenance, tyre change and so on. There is no strict deadline for the recall action and therefore no final deadline. Two more reminders are sent to the customers who do not respond to the invitation, each with an interval of three months. Our services have not received any complaints about the non-free updating. In view of all the press coverage that has already been given, the content of the website and the letter the customers receive, it also seems sufficiently clear to the consumer that the updates are or should be free of charge. If there is a problem, we must be informed immediately. If you have any information that would indicate that you have to pay for it, please give it to me. We will then give the necessary consequences. The German government KBA has confirmed for the approved updates that the performance characteristics after the updates still correspond to the original catalog values. As far as the technical deficiencies are concerned, our services have not received any complaints. We still have regular contact with D.Ieteren about the follow-up of the recall action. These contacts show that Döwieteren does have a number of customers who have submitted complaints after the update. However, such complaints also occur after maintenance or other technical interventions. We have been told that this is not exceptional and that we should not worry too much about it. Again, if there is any other information, we want to take it directly to heart. In the meantime, VW has decided to give an additional guarantee to the customers who update to increase customer confidence in the technical intervention and convince more customers to update their vehicle. Up to two years after the update, any problems with eleven components directly related to the exhaust gas treatment will be solved free of charge. If damage is proven, then my position and that of the government remains that the Volkswagen Group must compensate for this damage. The Prime Minister also submitted this position in writing to the Volkswagen Group on 24 April 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Your agreement to our remark that the update should be free of charge, so that the consumer does not get the disadvantage of fraud in the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The fact that you state very clearly that Volkswagen must compensate for any damage is a very strong signal. You also reply that 54 % of Audi A6s were updated. Since no deadline or clear deadline has been set, we need to keep a close eye on whether the update is effective. I express my concern about this. During the hearings, we were able to take note of the figures on the impact of filters that are not good. As far as health care is concerned, every committee member sounded the alarm. I would therefore ask you to keep following up on the matter. If consumers are found to have some reason not to change or update the car, then consumers should also be asked to make some kind of commitment to move towards Volkswagen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u45	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of the year the European Commission presented its proposal for a "Services package", including two initiatives of concern to us. First, mandatory prior notification. The Commission is trying to impose that national measures to regulate and regulate the provision of services are subject to mandatory prior notification to the services of the European Commission by short-circuiting parliamentary debate and social consultation. Secondly, the introduction or in any case the revision of a European electronic service card, in order to facilitate the freedom to provide services and to reduce to its simplest expression any possibility of national administrative control. In fact, this could promote social dumping. I have already had the opportunity to question Commissioner Thyssen on the matter. She told me that nothing would affect the control capacity of the Member States. Therefore, it tends to minimize impact. The trade unions and employers are unanimously opposed to this proposal. Minister, I'm coming back to you for clarification. What do you think of the advance notification measure? As Minister of Employment and guarantor of social consultation, is this initiative not a risk for you to hinder the possibility for the social partners to negotiate regulatory and supervisory mechanisms at sectoral level? What is Belgium's position and its mandate in relation to the two measures mentioned? Can you tell us more about it? Do you not fear that the European service card will increase the risk of social dumping in already highly sensitive sectors such as construction, guarding, cleaning or temporary work? You have met with the workers' representatives on this matter. What are their fears? How did you respond?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u46	Mr President, Mr Daerden, I have been asked a lot of questions which I will try to answer. The proposal for a prior notification directive reinforces the notification procedure established by the Services Package Directive. Its scope is identical. Furthermore, Article 1, § 6 of the latter stipulates that it does not apply to labour law. These are the legal or contractual provisions on working conditions, including health and safety at work, and on relations between the employer and the worker, which Member States apply in accordance with their own legislation. This proposal for a directive therefore does not affect social consultation in any way. The Services Package is currently being discussed in the Competitiveness and Growth Group (Internal Market) of the Council. In this context, Belgium has not mandated the European Union to negotiate, since it is the representatives of the Member States who are discussing the Commission's proposals within the Council. The proposed notification procedure can be an important instrument for advancing European unification. However, it is important to strike a balance between it and the possibility for Member States to introduce certain regulations. The European service map as a tool for administrative simplification can be an interesting tool. However, its added value remains to be appreciated. I am personally sensitive to the question of social dumping that you are talking about. That is why, on 15 March, I received a delegation from the FGTB and CSC trade unions to inform him that I would defend - on behalf of the government and the European Commission - the exclusion of the construction sector from the European service card.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u47	Minister, thank you for your response. I have heard that the discussion is not yet closed and that there will still be a lot of exchanges and negotiations on this subject. Nevertheless, I note that you are generally in favour of these developments and that you remain attentive to them. I have the feeling that it is not by chance that both employers' and workers' representatives are against it. There are real risks with regard to the notification procedure, with a reversal of the burden of proof and a reduction in the principle of subsidiarity, with a potential limitation on the role of the social partners, even if areas are excluded from the Services Package Directive. At the level of social dumping, you mentioned the exclusion of the construction sector - I would be glad if this sector could be spared, already being so affected - but there are the other sectors that I also mentioned. Even if we hope for a change in the directive on the posting of workers, the risk of circumvention is great and we are concerned about that. We will have the opportunity to return to you as these negotiations progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u48	Minister, the code of conduct for opticians was an excellent initiative on your part. This provides for correct customer information regarding prices and differences in the quality of glasses. It also provides that the optician clearly indicates whether or not it is contractually agreed, which allows partial reimbursement of the INAMI. Unfortunately, in the field, only 38 opticians signed this code of conduct out of 3,828 officially listed professionals, or just 1% of them. If we look at the details of the geographical distribution, we see that in the 38 there are 7 opticians on the French side! Minister, how do you explain this low appeal to your code of conduct? Has information to opticians been sufficient? Has this code of conduct not been developed in consultation with the sector? I did not check if my optician had signed this code of good conduct, but when we go home, we have this detailed explanation. Perhaps the opticians apply it but without having signed it? Hence my question: how was this put in place on the ground? Has the sector, with whom there has been consultation, understood the approach or applied the code without having signed it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u49	Cassart-Mailleux, on June 15, 2017, 42 companies adhered to the code of good conduct of opticians. Although one of the recent members is the Hans Anders chain, which has 105 stores, this number remains low, taking into account the fact that there are 3,828 opticians licensed by INAMI. For a good understanding, it must be made clear that not all of these certified opticians have their own stores. This code of conduct was drawn up in consultation with representatives of the sector, in particular with the Association professionnel des Opticiens de Belgique. I communicated this code of conduct in the media when it was adopted. The SPF website uses this code with the membership list as well as the membership forms. It is also available on the website of the Professional Association of Opticians. She confirmed to me that she had sent a letter to member and non-member opticians, that she had dealt with the subject in her professional Eyeline publication and that she had explained the code during the information evenings she organized for opticians. She also recommended this code during her telephone contacts with the opticians and put it on the agenda of the Association's last general assembly. I have no explanation for the fact that the results remain weak despite the various promotion initiatives. In all cases, an initial evaluation of the application of the code is planned for the end of this year. Other measures have not been considered in the preparation of the Code of Conduct and there has been no contact with other government departments since the objective is better information for the consumer. With regard to the other measures, since Ms. Fonck has put forward alternative ideas, I must refer you to the other departments that she has provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u50	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your full and clear answer. In the field, we don't understand! As you said, you took back some measures issued by the general assembly of opticians, you checked its publication in the magazine of the profession. We can expect to know more before the end of the year. The main objective is to raise awareness of the sector and to inform the consumer. There is no malice in the leader of the opticians who do their job well, let us be clear! I'll come back to you at the end of the year, when we know a little more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u51	Mr President, Minister, this is a conversion of a written question to an oral question because the answer was not available. In 2013, the website www.bel-me-not-meer.be was launched. Those who no longer want to be called for advertising can pass on their number, both from landline phones and mobile phones. Companies that do not follow the rules can be fined up to EUR 250 000. Mr Minister, my written question covered the years 2013, 2014 and 2015, and hopefully you can also give me information about 2016. How many phone numbers are on the list? What are the possible steps taken against companies that do not behave in accordance with the rules? I am thinking, for example, of a report, a warning or a fine. According to the categories you provide in your reply, can you indicate how many companies are warned or sanctioned for the years mentioned? How many domestic and foreign companies have already been warned, for the years mentioned? How many domestic and foreign companies were already fined for the years mentioned? What is the average fine imposed on a company? How much have these fines paid per given year? How many people have complained for the years mentioned because they continue to receive unwanted calls in this context? What happens if this is the case? What's the procedure? How many people, for the years mentioned, have cancelled their registration on the list? In your view, does this initiative have an effect and if so, in what way? Have other effects already been identified, such as companies using other methods? Can you explain this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u52	Minister, last year I asked you about a state of affairs concerning the so-called "call-me-not-list', a list on which consumers can register to be no longer contacted by sellers. You indicated at that time that five projustias were sent to the courthouse and that four proposals for payment were delivered to companies in violation. Finally, you indicated that you would follow up on the situation further. Mr. Minister, how many projusti's were sent to the parquet throughout 2016? How many payment proposals were delivered to companies in violation? How many of these proposals ultimately led to payment and what amounts were collected? What is the relationship between domestic and foreign companies among the offenders? Are you considering additional measures to limit infringements, particularly from abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u53	Mrs. Dierick, don't call me again!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u54	I take note of that, Mr President. Mr Minister, my question is also a written question which has been converted into an oral question. I had asked for a lot of figures, but I will not repeat all these questions about figures now. I am already satisfied if you can give me the answers on paper today, so that you do not have to read all the figures. In addition to the question of numbers, I have two more detailed questions. Has the system been evaluated and can you explain the findings of that evaluation? In reply to a written question, you replied that the initiative of bell-me-not-anymore is a response to a long-standing need on the part of consumers. The general investigation carried out by the Economic Inspectorate between 1 October 2015 and 29 April 2016, whereby 70 telemarketing companies and a total of 1 470 368 telephone calls were controlled, also led to an additional conclusion. Companies using telemarketing should be more aware of their obligation to consult the call list prior to the calls. The investigation showed that such companies, in particular SMEs and the self-employed, are still far from consulting the list. In that answer to my written question, you announced an information and awareness campaign for companies, specifically for those SMEs and self-employed persons. Can you explain the state of play of this information and awareness-raising campaign? When will this campaign be evaluated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u55	Mr President, Mr Lijnen, something seems to have gone wrong with the answer to the written question that you have not received, for which I apologise. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a whole table with which I am about to give you, so I do not have to read it all out. Then I come to the other elements to which I would like to reply. By Royal Decree of 28 June 2015, the non-profit association Do Not Call Me was recognised as managing the central bel-me-not-more list in application of the provision of the Code of Economic Law. Previously, the list was a purely private initiative of the Belgian Direct Marketing Association. The three questions ask for figures and I will give them in a moment, Mr President, so that everyone can look at them. I cannot answer the question of how many companies have already been prosecuted by the public prosecutors. After all, the Economic Inspectorate is not systematically informed of the effect of the public prosecutor's action on the pro-justi ties forwarded to it. We've been informed of two correct sentences. In two other cases, in the context of a strike claim, which I had brought, the company was ordered to stop practices under penalty payments. Perhaps we should also agree with the Justice Department in the future that the Economic Inspectorate will be informed when the public prosecutor continues and what the consequences are. But that information isn't there at the moment. In the case of minor infringements which are almost immediately regulated, a report of warning will be drawn up, as you know. In the other cases, the inspection shall draw up a procedure with a proposal for a transaction, the amount of which shall vary on the basis of objective elements such as the duration and extent of the infringements, whether or not there is a recurrence, etc. With regard to the top 5 of the sectors where there are problems, I refer to the table I have just given. The statistical processing of the notifications via the reporting point does not allow a distinction to be made between domestic or foreign companies. When both the client for the telephone marketing and the performer, being the call centre, are located abroad, it is not evident to act. First of all, the rules of law are specific national rules. Next, in the case of companies within the European Union, it is necessary to check whether there is an infringement of European law. In the present case there may be aggressive commercial practices and the rules on administrative cooperation may require the supervisory authority of the Member State concerned to act. Where undertakings are established outside the European Union, such administrative cooperation shall not apply. The large number of numbers on the list and its constant increase prove that the initiative responds to a need on the part of consumers and is well known. I do not have any information on companies that have changed their sales methods as a result of these legal rules. I am not immediately considering new measures to combat infringements from abroad, which, as explained, is not evident. Finally, with regard to communication, the FOD together with the non-profit association I mentioned earlier, namely Do Not Call Me, abbreviated DNCM, developed a leaflet explaining the obligation to consult the bell-me-not-more list. The non-profit association has set up a first mailing by sending the leaflet to 2 000 companies. The initiative will be repeated. The FOD and the non-profit organisation will remain in consultation for further follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the table of figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u57	I agree with you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u58	Thank you, Minister, of course, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u59	Colleagues, this is the last question for this morning's session. However, we are looking for another date because there are still many questions. We proposed three dates. I hope, minister, that we can agree on a date so that colleagues can ask their other questions. I'm sorry about the other colleagues who were still waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u60	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, as part of the "Modern Regulatory Framework" component of your October 2016 General Policy Note, the issue of reprography was discussed. Indeed, on 12 November 2015, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a critical judgment on the compatibility of the Belgian reprography system with European Union law. The current legislation seems to be in conflict with European law on various points. In early 2017, the Brussels Court of Appeal will rule in the HP versus Reprobel case on the applicability of current Belgian legislation. On 9 June 2016, the Council of Ministers approved at first reading the guidelines for the new legislation on reprography as well as the exceptions for illustrative purposes for teaching. The amendments to the provisions on education are part of the administrative simplification. Exceptions in favour of education are included in a single provision to which only one remuneration will be linked. The final texts of the draft law and implementing decrees have been approved by the Council of Ministers. Subsequently, the bill will be discussed in Parliament and its approval is planned for the end of 2016. The tariffs set in the implementing orders will have to be adjusted during 2017 in the light of the results of an independent study of the damage suffered as a result of reprographic actions. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you give us some information on the state of implementation of this directive? Is there a timetable in this regard? What adjustments do you wish to make to the tariffs set out in the implementing decrees relating to damage suffered as a result of reprographic actions? Could you provide us with the conclusions of this study?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u61	Mr President, Mr Kir, because of the principle of separation of powers, it is not for the executive to comment on a judicial decision. I take note of the decision, which largely confirms that Belgian law is in line with Directive 2011/29/EC, with the exception of an important point concerning the implementation of flat-rate remuneration. It is precisely on the point of the combination of flat-rate remuneration and proportional remuneration that the judgment considers that Belgian law is not in conformity with European law, which confirms the need to adapt the legislation on this point. A lump sum remuneration with a reimbursement mechanism is complicated to set up and would be the source of administrative burdens and additional costs for reprographic payers. Moreover, the new law of 22 December 2016 on reprography is not a hasty job. This law is the result of a lengthy process of consultation with interested parties. The figures in Mrs Lalieux's question are not correct. Indeed, following the abolition of the flat rate remuneration, the proportional remuneration was substantially increased in the Royal Decrees of 5 March 2017 in order to compensate for the damage suffered by the authors. A study is also under way on the assessment of damage caused by the reprographic exception. As a result of this study, rates will be re-evaluated. The conclusions are expected by the end of the year and will be communicated to you. The Court of Appeal considers that the old system of the combination of flat-rate remuneration and proportional remuneration was not in conformity with European law. Setting up a lump sum fee with reimbursement mechanisms would mean that the harm caused by each user would have to be assessed, which is impossible in practice and would create an administrative burden and additional costs. Therefore, it is not recommended to follow this path. As far as education is concerned, a draft decree is being finalized. After lengthy consultations with the players in the sector, the draft royal decree is currently being submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. Administrative simplification should be introduced as a result of the creation of a digital platform for perception by the relevant management companies and the new way in which the declarations are made. In the future, this will be done on the basis of official figures of the number of pupils and students.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-27-54-commissie-ic696x.u62	Mr President, I thank the Minister. The incident is closed on my side.
