ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u1	Mr President, Minister, this is not the first time that the relations between the President of the ECB, Mr Draghi, and the Group of Thirty have been discussed or even criticized. This time, however, an investigation was opened by the European Ombudsman, Ms O'Reilly, an investigation originating in a complaint lodged by an NGO based in Brussels, the Corporate Europe Observatory, which specialises in monitoring relations between lobbies and the European institutions. According to NGO officials, central bankers should not have structured links with bankers in order to avoid any risk of conflicts of interest. On the contrary, some believe that an exchange of information between bankers and central bankers is necessary. The ECB must be able to assess the impact on the sector and the functioning of the sector of the monetary measures it takes. To this end, the ECB considers the G30 to be a relevant interlocutor. Mr Minister, on the basis of this ad hoc example and in the light of your European experience, I would like to know your views on the functioning of the ECB and on how best to organise the relationship between central bankers and other bankers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u2	Mr Miller, as you know, the European Treaties prescribe the independence of the European Central Bank and the fact that neither the ECB nor its leaders can seek or receive instructions. I will therefore refrain from commenting on the functioning of the ECB and its President in particular. As regards the interaction between central bankers and bankers in general, I think it is in the interest of central bank managers to take part in exchanges relating to their activities, whether in public or private forums. I therefore agree with the view of the European Ombudsman who, in the past, felt that participation in such debates allows for the collection and understanding of important information, which is essential for the exercise of their mandate. As the ECB indicates, participation or membership in a discussion group cannot be seen as supporting the publications of the organisations in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u3	I thank the Minister for his very clear answer and for his reference to the European Ombudsman's point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u4	Mr Deseyn is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u5	Mr President, with the approval of Mr Deseyn, I hope that I will ask my question. Minister, since 1 July 2003, non-profit associations and private foundations have been subject to an annual tax on inheritance taxes, the so-called patrimony tax. That federal tax is 0.17% on the sum of the movable and immovable property of a non-profit organisation. As part of the annual fee on non-profit organisations, there is also an exemption for patrimonyal management. The question is whether this exemption will continue if in practice a number of non-profit organisations make parts of a property available to other associations, for example youth associations. The exemption from patrimonyal management was mainly intended for the non-profit-making structures behind schools. Does the exemption apply, for example, if a school makes part of its property available to other associations, including youth associations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u6	Mr Terwingen, the institutions of Community education or subsidised education are exempt from the tax on inheritance tax for immovable property intended exclusively for education and non-profit-making organizations for patrimonyal management whose sole purpose is to make immovable property available for education provided by the above-mentioned authorities. In the preparatory works, a broad interpretation was given of the concept of "sustainable education' and its examples are as follows: a concierge residence near a school building complex, a swimming pool in a school which is mainly intended for school activities but is also accessible to the public, and an integrated chapel in a school institution used in the week for Eucharist celebrations with the pupils. The property in question must therefore be intended primarily for education, but where they are also used for other purposes in a corresponding manner, the exemption from the tax will be retained. Therefore, it will be examined on a case-by-case basis whether the real estate complies with the broad interpretation "only for educational purposes' and thus with the necessary direct link with the educational function. If a number of school premises are made available to another association on weekends and holidays, e.g. to youth work, this may be considered as intended for education only.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u7	Mr Minister, that means that, if a school building is given structuralally or almost daily to youth associations, the exemption cannot be granted. Perhaps we should think about this together, perhaps I can make a proposal in this respect to extend the scheme, because this would make a number of empty educational buildings more attractive to youth associations. I will ask the chairman of the committee to sign it first, if we make a proposal to that effect, so that we can give more authority to the proposal to get it through. Thank you for the clear answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u8	It is not a guarantee that a bill called Van Rompuy will be approved, quite the contrary. [[Laughter]] Then put Van Biesen first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u9	I'm sure I'll let the name Van Biesen out. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u10	Mr President, Minister, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), launched by Beijing, announced at the end of March that it had approved the accession of thirteen new members, including Belgium and Canada. This new development bank, founded in 2015 by a Chinese initiative, approved the integration, among others, of Hong Kong, three European states (Belgium, Ireland, Hungary), Venezuela, Peru and Canada. They will officially join AIIB after completing their first capital deposit and finalizing the country-specific internal procedures, the institution said, which will then have seven hundred members. The Belgian government had agreed to this accession in June 2015 and Belgium's official application had been submitted in January 2016. What were the reasons for Belgium's participation in this investment bank? Under what criteria? What will be the amount of the first Belgian capital deposit? Will this budget come from your department?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u11	Mrs Grovonius, on the basis of the fact that the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) is positioned as a major credit provider in this area, which is needed in the region, our country has considered it necessary to join it. Our participation will strengthen the weight of European states within the institution and confirm our commitment to multilateral collaboration. The Belgian share will be $284.6 million, or 0.285 per cent of the capital. Of this total, $56.9 million will be released over five years. This represents an annual amount of $11.38 million. The first instalment must be paid in 2018 after the accession has been presented to Parliament. These amounts are included in the FPS Finance budget, which will also manage our relationship with AIIB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u13	Mr Klaps will be here later. He asked for his question No. 17689 to be postponed. He's attending another committee meeting right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u14	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of April the social partners agreed on the implementation of the mobility budget. It is striking that they vetoed converting company cars into cash. Last week the plans of the Brussels Region and of the federal government became known. From 2018 onwards, the Brussels Region wants to oblige employers to offer employees with a pay car a subscription for public transport or a company bike. By reminding employers of their responsibility for the mobility problem, the Brussels Government hopes to offer 38 000 people an alternative. The employers disagree. The federal government only wants to exchange the payroll cars for a monthly net amount, which is not exactly the same as what the Brussels Region wants. SD Worx has prepared a design for this. However, that design does not leave any possibility to exchange the salary car for a train subscription and/or a bicycle. Trade unions and employers agreed unanimously that the full conversion of the company car is pay and does not solve the mobility problem. In a unanimous opinion, they stated that the mobility budget should also really be spent on mobility. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, what are we going to do now? The government always says that it has a great deal of respect for social dialogue, but today it is faced with the unanimous negative advice of the social partners to trade commercial cars for a more ecologically sound transport alternative. This is a different interpretation of the mobility budget from the government's earlier proposal. Are there any other proposals? Will this opinion be taken into account or not? When will the draft be submitted to Parliament? To what extent are the plans of the Regions and the federal government compatible? Is this being discussed with the three regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u15	Mr President, Minister, presented at the time as an alternative to the company car, the reflection on the draft mobility budget has changed somewhat recently. For example, the Central Economic Council and the National Labour Council have recently issued a joint opinion on the subject. They argued in favour of a hybrid scenario in which the worker, in so far as he freely agreed to abandon his company vehicle, would benefit from a package based, at choice, on sustainable means of transport, a smaller and less polluting car, access to public transport and a financial balance which, not devoted to mobility, could be paid in cash. Therefore, on the basis of these elements, I would like to take stock with you of this issue and ask you the following questions. Could you provide us with the recommendations that have been made to you and provide us with any suggestions that may be your preference? What is the state of play of the Mobility budget at this stage? Have some progress been made in the overall reflection? What about the consultation with the social partners and the discussion with the mobility sector? Finally, what is the timetable for the completion of this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u16	Mrs Temmerman, Mr Calomne, I have indeed taken note of the joint opinion of the National Labour Council and the Central Council for Business with regard to the mobility budget, which indeed sets out a number of priorities and preferential courses for them. As has been pointed out, the government does intend to introduce a Mobility budget in order to give workers the opportunity to give up their company cars. The government is still working on the development of this regime and the definition of what can be offered. As this is not yet over, I will not express any opinion on this matter now. We will see what the results of the work currently under way will be. At least we have to wait a few more days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u17	So just a moment, Mrs. Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u18	That is, of course, relative. At the end of your reply, Minister, you spoke in a few days' time. Did I get that correctly? At least a few days, zei u. What is the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u19	Rather a little longer to work out good proposals than quickly come up with something that needs to be remediated afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u20	I agree, but it's always good to put timing first. I also know how these discussions are going. I hope that the opinion of the social partners will not only be taken into account, but also the great mobility problem that our country has, especially in the cities. We must therefore look not only at the budget, but also at the future of our society in terms of the environment. I heard you say that this government has committed itself to achieving the Paris objectives by 2020. We will not be able to do so by a long shot, not to mention the objectives that we have to achieve afterwards. You also know that mobility in this area is a very important factor and that all elements, including taxation, will have to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u21	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answers to these various questions at the heart of the day. I have noted that you are under discussion and that work is still going on today. I will therefore not ask you where they are since you have asked us to wait at least a few more days. It wasn't about months or weeks. Take the time to refine this file because it is expected, I think! This folder has symbol value and it is therefore important. We will come back to you with more specific questions once the project has been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u22	Question No 17820 by Mr Gilkinet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u23	That's a delicate subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u24	Mr President, Minister, as you know, it is not only the financing of any terrorist offence that is punishable. Recently, the financing of a terrorist has also become a criminal offence in itself. You also know that in recent years and months our attention and concern has focused on the financing of prayer houses by a number of third countries. That concern has absolutely nothing to do with religious freedom or the experience of one's own belief. However, it is motivated by radicalisation and indirectly financing terrorist activities through the prayer houses. Minister, during one of the hearings with open doors of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016, the Director of the Grand Mosque was heard. On the question of whether the Grand Mosque was subject to tax checks, the person concerned replied to me that he had a Belgian accountant. The fact of tax controls was apparently unknown to him. That's why I have the following questions. Minister, are the statements of the Director of the Great Mosque in line with reality? Haven't there ever been any tax checks for the Great Mosque? Are fiscal checks carried out on approved and unrecognized mosques? Is there a difference in approach? How many controls are we talking about? Were any of these felonies established? How's the follow-up going? May I assume they'll be reported to the court if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u25	Mrs Van Cauter, the provisions on professional secrecy prohibit my administration from clarifying whether the Grand Mosque has been subject to specific fiscal control. My administration confirms to me that there has been no specific control action on mosques, which does not mean that no possible controls have been carried out. Any official who, in the performance of his duties, becomes aware of a crime or of a malpractice shall inform the competent prosecutor of the King and shall forward to that magistrate all relevant information, minutes and documents. In the case of criminal offences on the basis of tax laws and implementing decisions, such notification by the officials of the General Administration of Taxation, of the collection and recovery, of the Patrimony documentation and of the BBI cannot be effected without the authorisation of their advisor-general. In that case, the tax administration will continue to follow up the file with a view to establishing or recovering the tax due. To this end, the tax administration may request permission from the public prosecutor to examine the judicial file and even take copies of it. If, on the other hand, it is not a tax offence, the adviser-general's authorization for notification to the King's Attorney is not required. Officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office must immediately inform the Minister of Finance when the investigation reveals cases of circumvention of direct or indirect taxation. The role of the Financial Information Processing Cell (CFI) should also be highlighted in this context. Officials of the FPS Finance who establish facts which they know or suspect to be related to money laundering or terrorist financing shall inform the CFI in accordance with the procedures laid down for that purpose. If the analysis of the CFI shows that there are serious indications of money laundering or terrorist financing, it shall send that information to the competent prosecutor of the King or to the federal prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u26	Minister, I understand that you cannot provide further information on an individual dossier. I am aware of the general procedure provided for in Article 29, the administrative procedure and the operation of the CFI, but thank you for confirming and recalling them. I note that there may have been checks on the religious communities. I may have to generalize it, but you say that no specific action has been taken so far. Mr. Secretary, can't you give me figures? Or should I ask a written question? Finally, in view of the problem of combating terrorism, which is very close to our hearts, I would like to ask you to consider specific actions on the financing of terrorism. Perhaps that should be looked at more broadly than just the religious communities? I may have put it too narrowly. I believe that the limited instrument, as we have known so far, was rightly and necessaryly extended on our proposal. All crimes are punishable, including the maintenance of a terrorist is a criminal offence. Fiscal controls can contribute directly or indirectly to the detection of such reprehensible facts. Perhaps we should think about setting up such an action?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u27	Mrs van Cauter, I would just like to mention that next Sunday we will have a special Council of Ministers on a number of security aspects. This problem will certainly be addressed. I cannot, of course, anticipate the outcome, but at least this is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u28	Mr President, thank you for changing the agenda slightly. Mr Minister, those who live in Belgium but work abroad are obliged to declare that foreign income in the Belgian declaration. That foreign income may not be taxed effectively in Belgium, but it results in any other income, which is taxed in Belgium, being taxed in a higher tax base. Those who only have a foreign income do not pay taxes in Belgium. The problem with this is that, in this situation, a taxable person does not benefit from an effective tax reduction for dependent children. In this context, married and legally cohabitants are disadvantaged compared to actual cohabitants. The latter may, if necessary, charge the children to the partner who works in Belgium in order to benefit from the tax relief for dependent children. However, those who are married or legally living together do not have this freedom. Children are then dependent on the person with the highest income. If that is the person working abroad, the family will not benefit from effective tax relief for dependent children. Since this is particularly detrimental to frontier workers, I would like you to answer the following questions. Are you aware of this unfair situation? Will you try to remedy this situation? If so, what will you do and what is your planning?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u29	The answer to your first two questions is yes. As far as your third question is concerned, pending a legal solution to the problem outlined, the administration is currently working out an automated system that meets the concerns of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Constitutional Court against the current legislation, which allows jointly taxed married and legally resident persons to lose all or part of the tax advantage for dependent persons if the spouse or partner with the highest taxable income has foreign income exempt which is taken into account for the calculation of the tax on his other income. That computerised system should avoid the need for the taxable persons concerned to submit further objections. It is intended to apply them for the 2017 attack year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u30	This is particularly good news, which the people involved will be very pleased about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u31	Question No 17871 by Mr Benoît Dispa is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roel Deseyn's 17875 will be converted into a written question. Then we have a whole series of questions from Mr Luk Van Biesen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u32	Mr Minister, the 2016 FPS Finance Management Plan states on page 28: "In 2016 the AAFisc plans the following initiatives: the process owners of the following four processes will include their new control measures in an action plan submitted to the AAFisc Management Committee for validation. This is about process 115 on internal inspection, process 34, process 38, process 42 and so on. I am mainly concerned with the first process 115, the internal inspection. By the end of 2016, it was intended to analyse all the processes of the AAFisc for the first time and to have the action plans with new control measures validated by the AAFisc Management Committee. A year later, of course, we are interested in these measures. Was the first process analysis of the AAFisc completed, in particular that of the internal inspection? What were the main conclusions of the initial analysis? Can we now have the action plans with new control measures validated by the AAFisc Management Committee? What are the key elements of the Action Plan and the new control measures related to the internal inspection at the FPS Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u33	Mr Van Biesen, with the exception of process 112, which relates to the business management of the applications and for which a process description was missing, all processes of the AAFisc were analysed for the first time at the end of 2016. Your question concerns all the risk derivatives of all the business processes of the AAFisc. I can confirm that many new measures have been taken and projects launched to give management the reasonable assurance that its objectives can be achieved and that the planned actions are being effectively monitored. For example, the process analysis of the internal inspection process was completed already in 2015. As for all other processes, the process owner, in cooperation with the staff involved in the implementation of the process, systematically mapped and evaluated all risk derivatives and identified the existing control measures. New control measures were then defined for the main risk derivatives. They will also be followed. For example, one of the important risk derivatives of the internal inspection process was that complaints were sent out too late by the Coordination Complaints Department of the FPS Finance. In order to manage that risk, the following new control measures were taken: the process of "complaints' was integrated into the process of "internal inspection' and a new automated tool was put into operation, allowing the complaints to be forwarded more quickly. The key performance indicators are now defined and followed up with regard to the deadlines within which complaints must be forwarded to the relevant administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Are the conclusions purely for internal use or can they be found somewhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u35	I think they are for internal use, but I will inform myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u36	Mr President, this is a question along the same lines as my previous question. I apologise for being particularly interested in internal and external control. It may be a deviation from a previous professional activity, when I was still teaching on internal and external audits. Since March 2015, internal control within the General Administration of Taxation has been strengthened by the creation of three new services, the Organisational Control Cell, the Internal Control Cell and the Internal Inspection Cell. The decision concerning the Chairman of the Management Committee was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 16 February 2015. The tasks of the Internal Inspection Cell are to investigate complaints and notifications relating to violations or suspected violations of integrity and to conduct preventive and corrective actions in the context of integrity policy. With regard to that cell, the Internal Inspection Cell, I would like to raise the following questions. Minister, can you give me a more detailed overview of the mission, rights and duties of the Internal Inspection Cell? Is there a circular or a note describing in detail the mission of the Internal Inspection Cell? Is the Cell Internal Inspection required, in the context of the disclosure of governance and the obligation to state reasons, to communicate to the complainant in the event of a complaint or a notification of the outcome of the investigation conducted? If so, does it always happen? What are the possibilities for a complainant when he is denied that right? If no, why doesn't it happen or why can't it? What are the review criteria to which the Internal Inspection Cell considers any complaints and notifications against civil servants? What are the preventive and corrective actions that can be taken by the Internal Inspection Cell in the context of integrity policy? Can you give me a detailed overview of the last period of operation of the Internal Inspection Cell, the number of complaints and notifications, the type of complaints, their admissibility and so on?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u37	In the process of internal inspection, the AAFisc's Organisational Control Cell carries out the management of the complaints and notifications it receives through different channels. Such management shall include the recording, analysis, prioritisation and allocation for examination of the complaints and notifications considered admissible. On the other hand, the various prevention actions to be undertaken in the context of the implementation of the integrity policy of the FPS Finance are also recorded. The strategic policies of the Chairman of the FPS and of the Management Committee on integrity shall automatically be integrated into the Internal Inspection Process and shall be translated into actions at the operational level, paying particular attention to the specific characteristics of the AAFisc and its associated officials. As regards the examination of complaints themselves, the general rule is that the notification of receipt should inform the applicant that the AAFisc is unable to provide him with any information or results, given the confidentiality of the investigation carried out and the protection of the privacy of the duly endorsed official. In reply to your third question, I can tell you that the criteria for checking are indeed, inter alia, the deontological code for federal officials and the guidance of the FPS Finance in this area. As far as your fourth question is concerned, prevention is indeed the focus of the integrity policy pursued by the FPS Finance. It is the basis for the confidence of citizens and businesses in the AAFisc. Instruments for this preventive integrity policy include drawing up, explaining and communicating an ethical code; developing and communicating behavioural indicators for officials linked to the standards and values used; cultivating an open dialogue culture on integrity in civil servants; integrating integrity into existing training; providing a checklist so that officials can identify themselves whether or not there is an integrity problem; organising job rotation and the separation of functions; well-designed procedures for vulnerable activities; well-organising an incompatibility policy; defining the policy on whether or not to accept gifts, gifts or rewards; developing a system of reporting by AAFisc officials, allowing them to identify possible problem situations themselves; identifying a reporting point for non-integrating behaviour and so on. In reply to your fifth question, I can tell you that in 2014 100 complaints were declared admissible at the AAFisc. In 2015 there were 175 and in 2016 there were 195. The majority concerned the violation of the principle of quality of service. In 2014, 2015 and 2016, five, four and three complaints were found inadmissible respectively. They were either anonymous, concerned retired civil servants or endorsed the policy pursued by the political government. Four prevention actions have already been organised at the AAFisc. The themes addressed include telephony, privacy and professional secrecy, bullying, the trusted person, integrity, discrimination and racism. No correction actions were undertaken in the period 2014-2016. Two corrective actions have been undertaken in 2017 to date. Figures prior to 2014 are not available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u38	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u39	As I have no news from Mrs Lalieux, her question is No. 17904 deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Becq's 17942 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u40	Minister, small companies may benefit from a reduced withholding tax on dividends derived from new shares issued in name following a cash contribution after 1 July 2013. If the dividends are granted from the distribution of profits for the third financial year and subsequent to that of the contribution, the withholding tax shall be 15%. Can previous reserves or transferred income in that third financial year and subsequent dividends be paid at 15%? Or do we just mean the profit for the third financial year and next?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u41	Mr Van Biesen, the reduced tax rate on withholding tax of 15% quoted by you applies only to dividends granted or granted from the distribution of profits for the third financial year and subsequent to the transfer of new capital from which those dividends arise. The legal provisions do not prescribe how the distribution of profits should be carried out, whether by the general meeting or not, or what the origin of dividends should be, whether or not the profits for the current financial year or previous financial years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u42	Mr Minister, it can be concluded from that answer that the profits of the previous financial years can indeed be used in the distribution of dividends. That is good news for those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u43	This question may also have fiscal implications, otherwise you would have preferred it to Secretary of State Demir, who I believe is competent in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u44	Mr President, Minister, I have put this question to several members of the government. You know the problems of the Cinquantenaire Museum and the Cinquantenaire Park as such. We're in there with the Great Mosque, among other things. There are also beautiful and rare sculptures to admire. The Cinquantenaire Museum is in total more than 60 000 m2 and includes among others the Hallepoort Museum, the Music Instrument Museum, the Museums of the Far East, the Chinese Pavilion and the Japanese Tower. The museum can count on a large number of visitors, especially during temporary exhibitions that take place there. The number of visitors outside the temporary exhibitions is rather low. This has nothing to do with the offer of this museum with absolutely unique pieces, but it has nothing to do with its pathetic state. That's why the visitors stay away. In several places it even rains inside. Budgettair tries to set the museum up with 7.8 million for the four museums. Annually this 7.8 million is reduced by 2%, so that the budget is reduced. This decline is being dealt with by the donations received. However, this income is also reasonably limited because most gifts come from private individuals and amount to between €40 and €50. The museum was reported to receive approximately 15 000 euros of donations in 2016. This obviously does not allow those museums to be maintained. The big stumbling block here is the tax deductibility of gifts, which is not so attractive to most taxpayers or companies. The current state of the museum not only causes image damage, it also creates a huge amount of missed opportunities in the economic field. Museums attract people to the city because of their appearance and their offer, and that is also good for the economy in the city and for the tourism sector. Do you agree, Minister, that the museums in Brussels are losing a lot of revenue because of their appalling state? Do you consider it necessary to take additional measures, within the budgetary framework, for repairs? I know that some of your fellow Members are also competent in this matter. The figures clearly show that the problems cannot be solved through donations. After all, an amount of EUR 15 000 is fundamentally too little to get these museums back in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u45	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, as has already been pointed out by the President, neither the museums concerned nor the Government of the Buildings are under my jurisdiction. For most parts of your question, therefore, I must refer you to the competent members of the government. As far as your last tax-driven question is concerned, the government agreement does not provide for a change in the system of tax deductibility of gifts, which means that I cannot accept your question at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u46	Minister, I hope that you will take this question with you to the various future budgetary conclaves, because the appalling state of the museums is not a good sign for our capital city.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u47	Mr Minister, according to the VAT manual, the VAT administration considers, in particular, the extension of a warehouse and the addition of accessories to buildings used for professional purposes as changes and improvements to a means of operation. The review period for VAT for changes and improvements to existing business resources is five years. Indeed, it is common for existing buildings to be expanded. Let me give you two examples. Firstly, a workshop or storage space is increased by adding an additional side beech. Secondly, an industrial building is being expanded with a desk section. The characteristics of both models are identical per hypothesis. I'm clarifying. Firstly, the structure of the existing buildings is not changed, except, of course, the necessary passage between the existing part of the building and the new part of the building. Secondly, by increasing the existing building, the area is not doubled. Thirdly, the attached parts cannot function separately from the existing parts, with which they are functionally one. Can you confirm, Minister, that, in the above examples, the revision period for enlargement is five years each? If not, can you give us your reasons for that decision? Then why is the five-year review not applicable?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u48	When setting up a building, there is a 15-year review period. When transforming and improving a building, it is limited to five years, unless the works carried out are so important that a new building has actually been created. For example, given their nature and size, certain work on built real estate may give rise to the creation of a new building, even if the area does not change. The distinction between transformation and improvement works and the creation of a new building is therefore a matter of fact. When a construction is set up that links to an existing building, it will be examined, inter alia, whether this new construction constitutes a whole with the existing building and whether or not that new part can function independently of the old part. The fact that there is no separate cadastral income allocated to it or that a passage is made is not, in itself, decisive. The assessment is ultimately based on a set of factual elements. If you are referring to a specific case, I would like to have it examined by my administration, taking into account the above.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u50	Questions Nos 17980 and 17981 by Mr Vanvelthoven are postponed. Then we come again to Mr Van Biesen, for his question No. 18009.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u51	Mr President, could you have someone else ask a question, because I have an urgent call to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u52	No problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u53	Mr Minister, we are talking here about speed pedals, the electric bicycles that can provide pedal support up to a speed of 45 km/h. I have asked you a few times about this and I will continue to harass you until it is settled. My question is actually very short and simple. Where are we on this? When can users rely on a bicycle fee? Often they did get it earlier because they assumed, like the employers, that it was a bicycle. They feel that that remuneration was being taken away from them. History is, of course, a different story. A specific scheme has been introduced, so that they could no longer be legally eligible for the bicycle fee. Again, quite simply, where are we and when can we count on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u54	I have every sympathy for this more than even the fact that you continue to haunt me with it. As you know, I myself am a furious cyclist, albeit not with a pedelec. That's for when the gray hair is all there. All madness on a stick, on previous questions of yours regarding speed pedals, I replied that it does indeed seem useful to revise or adjust the tax treatment. I'm gonna keep defending that. The research carried out by my administration in consultation with the fellow Members of the Committee on Mobility and Social Affairs has now been completed. I cannot, however, imagine the background to a number of pending cases immediately, given the ongoing discussions within the government in the context of mobility. I really didn't overdo it just now when I said that there is an IKW going on around the mobility budget at this very moment in the Treasury offices that deals with a number of elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You will not be surprised that I will continue to haunt you as long as there is no clarity about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u56	The government has made support for SMEs and the creation of economic activities a top priority, including alternative financing measures such as crowdfunding and equity investments in early-stage SMEs. Direct investment in a starter company has been able to benefit from the tax reduction since 1 July 2015. In addition to this direct investment, since 1 February 2017, we can also invest in beginner SMEs via a crowdfunding platform, either directly or indirectly. This favourable tax system has been in effect since 1 February 2017. The approval procedure is still under way, but the first projects are already under way. Minister, do you already have figures on the amounts invested in SMEs starters in 2015 and eligible for the tax reduction of 30% and 45%? Can your administration, based on these figures, profile the individuals who have benefited from the tax reduction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u57	Mr Piedboeuf, the SME tax shelter was introduced by the program law of 10 August 2015. I am pleased that the first cost-effective crowdfunding projects are being introduced. It is important for our starters to collect capital in the start-up phase. Since this is statistical data, the collection of the data you are asking for takes a little time, but I will send this data to you in writing as soon as it is systematically available to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u58	Thank you, Minister. It was only a matter of adding a complementary element to all the positive results of the government's action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u59	Minister, I have a question about the hobby brewers. I have described the framework in my question. We are ideally a beer country with many trademarks and about 1 400 beers. We have not only professional breweries, but also a number of hobby brewers. In the municipality we share, Minister, a hobby brewer has been added very recently with the beautiful beer De Legende, which I highly recommend to you. They are covered by specific legislation, namely the Law of 7 January 1998, which prevents them from paying excise duties on the quantities of beer they produce. In contrast to commercial brewers, a hobby brewer should also not have the authorisation of authorised warehousekeeper. Recently published a brochure on excise duties, Beer brewing of the FPS Finance. It defines the definition of a hobby brewer as follows: "A private person who brews beer for his own use, provided that there is no sale." Then a number of items are listed that are not allowed:.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Of course, that goes without saying. Next, it says: "Organising on a regular basis degusts, which can even be free, or participating in competitions or tastings." The first point seems logical to me. The second and third points are a little more complex. Minister, what is meant by regular degustations? Is it intended to tighten up the legislation? Why is it not allowed to hobby brewers to participate in competitions and tastings? In what laws or decisions do the limitations for the hobby brewers find their basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u60	Mr Van Mechelen, the concept of "regular degustations" is defined as organizing degustations on a regular basis, even free of charge, under the pretext that the participants are the guests of the producer. Regular degustations are therefore defined as degustations held daily, weekly, monthly or annually among participants who are not considered members of the producer's household circle. The concept of "Hobby Brewer' does not exist by law. The legislation only talks about personal or private consumption. In all other cases one has to comply with the normal rules. Hobby brewers as such are not forbidden to participate in competitions or tastings, but when they do, they are no longer considered as a private but as a professional or commercial brewer, because they leave the homely atmosphere of the beer brewer and there are spectators present who cannot be considered as guests of the brewer's family. There are no laws or decisions specifying the limitations of hobby brewers but which follow from the interpretation of the provision of Article 7 of the Law of 7 January 1998 on the structure and rates of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages, which provides for an exemption from excise duty on beer produced by a private individual and which is consumed by that private individual, by the members of his family or by his guests, provided that there is no sale. An amendment or clarification of the legislation can certainly be considered, but obviously requires an agreement in the government. It is also necessary to act with due respect for the existing excise legislation. I am prepared, Mr Van Mechelen, to take the matter up as I see you smiling.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u61	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I want to be very clear about the reason for the question. There is a new trend in Flanders. The hobby brewing has a first process, until one develops a beer that suits one's taste. Then it goes to a professional brewery, which commercializes it or not, according to the rules of the game. So it's not about avoiding excise duties, it's about some kind of lab test project to get a new beer. Thank you, Minister, for taking a closer look at the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u62	Mr President, Minister, in the annual report 2016 of the Flemish Ombuds Service, submitted on 8 March 2017, the Flemish Ombudsman says: "The renewed Flemish Tax Platform offers an opportunity for compensation between taxes collected by VLABEL. Between the inheritance tax, registration tax and the mileage tax, 2 million euros were already compensated. The system is extended to other Flemish taxes and consultations are ongoing in order to compensate for taxes from other levels of government in the long term. The latter is an essential step towards achieving that single portal, on which a citizen can see exactly his assets and debts. The main aim of the proposal is to establish a regulatory and operational framework that would allow for the compensation of claims and refunds of taxes between tax administrations, both federal and regional, in order to achieve administrative simplification. In order to obtain the payment of outstanding tax debts from a taxable person, a government can today seize the tax assets of the same taxable person with another government. However, a formal attachment procedure is currently required for this purpose. At the meeting of the Regional Taxation Observatory on 30 June 2016, the proposal was explained by the Flemish Tax Administration. At that meeting, the Federal Administration stated that the legal framework had to be created first to allow for simplified compensation across the boundaries of federal and regional administrations. Mr President, in reply to Oral Question No 1, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4710 of 8 July 2015 also pointed to the use of the tax balance sheet for the recovery of unpaid penalty fines. Minister, I would like to hear from you the following. What is your position on the proposal to introduce the tax balance sheet, which includes tax debts and balances in the tax administrations of the Regions and the federal government? Has consultation already taken place with the three Regions on the proposal and have you been able to find that the three Regions support the proposal? Has a working group already been set up in which the authorities concerned are represented to draw up the proposal? How far have the work of this working party progressed if necessary? What timing do you plan if necessary to start discussions on the proposal? When do you expect the tax debt balance to be effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u63	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, VLABEL's application was indeed explained at the meeting of the State-West Working Group on 30 June 2016 at the Regional Taxation Observatory. In the light of prior discussions within the Federal Public Service Finance, it has been found that the introduction of a fiscal debt balance between the federal government and the federated entities is difficult to achieve. Debt comparison between non-integrated systems creates a huge manual workload because real-time data exchange is not possible. Within the working method used within the FPS Finance, the FPS should always check the debt status with the external partner, without guaranteeing that the deductions are correct. Additional points of interest are the following. Firstly, the right to information of the citizen. If one compares debts and therefore pays back less funds, one must be able to fully motivate this to that citizen. However, the FPS Finance has little or no information on the nature of the debt. Secondly, the risk of including external debts in the overview of debts and balances that are not very topical, making the accuracy of the information unreliable. Thirdly, the rules of use and order to be applied to what is today called the overview of debts and balances. These rules of use, for example, which costs are first recovered.... may differ between the Region and the federal government, and therefore need to be aligned. Such compensation therefore constitutes an operational risk for the process used by the FPS and this because of the many manual interventions and manipulations. As part of the objective of developing a more efficient government, any cooperation with the three Regions should be thoroughly prepared to ensure that the four systems are compatible. I will instruct my administration to examine, together with the interested regions, how such a system could be set up. Finally, the introduction of such a fiscal balance sheet will in any case require legislative measures, as this cannot only be regulated at administrative level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u64	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I must honestly say that I follow your argument that this needs to be thoroughly prepared and that it must be ensured that certain claims and debts are compensated. Surely it is not possible for Belgium, by means of a state reform which has imposed certain fiscal powers at different levels, to succeed in aligning the different systems? I would like to point out, in the general interest of all citizens, that it is too crazy to say that the federal government gives money back in the personal income tax to a resident who still owes the same person to the Flemish administration. I believe that no one understands that this can happen today because of the complexity of our systems. A second element that surprises me, but which I will of course include with you, is the lack of the legal measures still required to establish such a debt balance sheet. I believe, Minister, that we will have to take a number of initiatives to this end. Most people don't understand that someone gets money back from entity A while he still owes money to entity B. We need to get that out of the way. As you have said, this must be done thoroughly and correctly. Let us work on this together and hope that this can be achieved fairly quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u65	Mr Van Biesen, I thought you were going to talk about Mrs Rutten's proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u66	No, I have just heard in the advisory committee on European affairs that you were very enthusiastic about this. I will not therefore give you the opportunity to re-explain your position on this matter. I propose that we remain calm and move on to my question about the self-employed in the secondary sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u67	You're avoiding the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u68	In fact, are you asking for my personal view on the position that Mrs Rutten has defended today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u70	I suggest that you put that question in writing! [[hilarity]] Minister, employees and civil servants who are sufficiently employed can establish themselves as self-employed in the secondary occupation. As a selfemployed worker in the secondary profession, VAT can be deducted from his purchases and also from the normal taxable income of the main activity each year. In theory one can recover a nice amount of taxes. This situation can be found on several occasions in the case of self-employed persons in the secondary occupation. In the main proceedings, the person concerned would not have gone far after several years of loss. Minister, how many employees and civil servants respectively indicate an income from an additional occupation? How many of these self-employed persons in the secondary profession give a negative income, i.e. a loss, a loss, a salary or an official? Can you give a general distribution of income for income from a secondary occupation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u71	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, I have a whole battery of figures for you. I think it is in everyone's best interest and above all in my interest that I hand over those figures to you without raving them all off.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u72	I propose that the figures be distributed to the members of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u73	We'll have copies made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u74	Mr President, at least I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer to the various questions. I know that it is not customary to ask for figures in an oral question. Normally, that is typically the subject of a written question. Minister, given the importance of this question for special work in the near future, I believe that the answers will help us to further underpin policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u75	Mr Minister, the amendments to the law on various provisions of December 2016 provide a solution to the workability of the modified diamond system through, among other things, a solution to the problem of stock tracking and revaluation. The change to the diamond system stems from the consultation with the European Commission, which insisted on a less invasive regime and was therefore in favour of limiting the diamond system to the introduction of a calculation rule for determining the cost of the goods sold on the basis of the turnover realised. This cost is 97.9 % of turnover, so a gross margin of 2.1 % of turnover is taken into account for tax purposes. As explicitly required by the European Commission, the alternative diamond system intervenes only at the level of gross margin. Thus, among other things, the deductibility of professional costs by diamond traders is an uncertain factor in the budgetary feasibility of this system. The over-creation of professional costs could have a negative impact on the efficiency of the system. This could in itself lead to endless and difficult tax controls in the diamond sector. In order to avoid this, however, stability and legal certainty are the foundations of the new regime, which was chosen to create a minimum floor. In other words, additional provision is made for a minimum net taxable base to be obtained, fixed at a flat rate of 0.55% of the turnover realised. For the sake of clarity, it is repeated that the minimum taxable base thus calculated cannot as such be reduced by, for example, the notional interest deduction, the deduction of transferred losses or the transferred notional interest deduction. I'll come to my questions. Is the requirement to pay a minimum management fee met if the minimum management fee is paid to a company which in turn transfers it to another company which then pays that minimum remuneration to a natural person in respect of whom that fee is taxable in the personal income tax? You see, something that happens every day. Regarding processing companies that sell both out of stock and cut diamonds for third parties, the explanatory memorandum states that the costs are divided according to the working volume for each of the two processing activities measured in carat to cut diamonds delivered. We are thinking in particular of processing costs such as grinder's wages, saw wages and so on. Can this key also be used for the division of the other costs into the profit and loss account such as electricity, insurance and rent?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u76	Mr Van Biesen, as far as your first question is concerned, I believe that the legal text relating to the tax system for undertakings in the diamond sector is sufficiently clear. Indeed, the current provisions state that the requirement to pay a minimum manager's fee is met if the registered diamond dealer pays the said fee to the company manager, who in turn transfers it to a natural person whose remuneration is taxable as a professional income in the personal income tax or the tax of non-residents/natural persons. In the case referred to by you, that requirement is not met, since another company paying the said fee to the natural person does not act as the company leader of the registered diamond dealer, but as an entity acting solely in the event of the payment of that fee. As regards your second question, the parliamentary documents of the Law of 18 December 2016 show that the total processing costs for mixed processing, processing for own account and on behalf of third parties can be divided according to the working volume for each of the two processing activities, measured in carat to cut diamond delivered. In that case, such a key relates only to the costs associated with the processing of diamonds, as they cannot be linked with certainty to any processing activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u78	Mr Minister, in the coming weeks, taxpayers will be bringing their brown envelope back into the appropriate services in large numbers. Fortunately, this number is decreasing and revenues are increasingly indicated via Tax-on-web. The tax bill received by each taxable person after the declaration clearly indicates the average tax rate. The government's tax-shift measures should have reduced the average tax rate on comparable income compared to last year. Mr Vanvelthoven is not convinced yet, but I think the rest of my fellow Members are. However, the calculation of the assessment note shows that this is not the case. I have been informed that several taxpayers who have already made their declaration via Tax-on-web 2017 have found that the average tax burden would have increased compared to the 2015 tax year. Given that this is contrary to expectations after the government has taken various measures to reduce the tax burden, how is it possible that the average rate of attack, as stated on the tax bill, has increased among several persons, despite their income being comparable to that of last year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u79	Mr Klaps, the average rate of taxation is influenced not only by income, but also by many other factors, such as the dependents and the expenditure eligible for a tax advantage. Therefore, without knowledge of all the actual data of the taxable persons concerned, I cannot give a detailed explanation for any specific case in which that average tax rate would have increased. Apart from that, I would like to draw your attention to the following amendment, which has a general scope. The tax returns of the tax years 2015 and 2016 were each marked with two average tax rates, one at the beginning just above the detail of the calculation and one at the end. The first, which was simply referred to as "the average tax rate', was the average tax rate applicable for the tax years 2015 and 2016 to revenues from 2014 and 2015, which were taxable at the average tax rate of the tax years 2015 or 2016. In calculating that average tax rate, as a transitional measure introduced by the Law of 8 May 2014, both regional tax reductions and federal tax reductions were taken into account, except for the reduction for income from abroad. The second average tax rate from 2017 onwards was the average tax rate that would apply from 2017 onwards to revenues that would be taxable at the average tax rate of the tax years 2015 or 2016. However, when calculating that average tax rate, regional tax reductions were no longer taken into account in order to avoid the regional tax rules having an impact on the tax state. Now that the transitional measure for 2014 and 2015 has ended, only the average tax rate calculated without taking into account regional tax reductions is mentioned on the 2017 tax assessment bill. If the tax burden on the jointly taxable income in the tax years 2016 and 2017 is to be objectively compared, then the average tax rate should be shown on the tax bill of the 2017 tax year, compared with the average tax rate indicated at the end of the tax bill of the 2016 tax year as of the 2017 tax year. The effects of the tax shift are thus reflected in the absence of any significant changes in the actual circumstances of the person concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u80	Minister, the answer is clear, but its length proves that taxation is very complex. I do not have a ready-made solution for that either, otherwise I would be happy to deliver it to you. The mystery has already been solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u81	Questions Nos 18156 and 18157 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 18101 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u82	Mr President, Minister, this is an important question for the field of social housing. My question may be wider than your answer, but I am going to put my question to you anyway. Mr Minister, Annex XXXVI to VAT-KB No. In the case of social housing in the broad sense, 20% provides for a reduced VAT rate of 6%. Private developers who created a social offer in kind under the partially destroyed Flemish Decree of 27 March 2009 on land and property policy themselves enjoyed that reduced VAT rate. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft decree on land and buildings policy, the following is stated in relation to the VAT regime mentioned above, I quote: "In this case, jurisdiction over the determination and definition of VAT tariffing within the system of the special financing law belongs to the federal government. On the basis of this competence, the federal government may decide that social housing is subject to specific lower rates, in particular 6% instead of 21%. However, once it has taken such a decision, it should leave the concrete definition of the concept of "social housing' to the regions. Pursuant to Article 6 (1) IV of the Special Law on the reform of the institutions, the powers of housing are conferred on the Regions, which must be interpreted in a very broad manner in accordance with the parliamentary preparation of the special law. It should be noted that VAT-KB No. In other words, there is an explicit reference to the regional housing companies and to the companies they recognise. Thus, the Flemish Region can indirectly broaden the scope of the 6% scheme by considering the social housing offer created by private actors, within the normative framework applicable to the social housing companies, as being created by a social housing company, to the extent that the VMSW has issued the necessary certificates. Instead of the destroyed social security system, we are now working on conventional housing, as developed by the Flemish level. In doing so, homes are realized according to the type contract of the VMSW, whereby the properties are sold or rented at a price that is not higher than that allowed by the regulations on social housing. The type contract of the VMSW now has normative value, as it was established by the Ministerial Decision of 14 May 2013. The realisation of housing according to the type of housing of the VMSW as a regional social housing society implies, as it were, recognition by this housing society as far as the project concerned is concerned. The housing is also offered to target groups in accordance with the price standards accepted by the regional government within the social housing offer, i.e. the price standard in accordance with the rules applicable to social housing companies. I would therefore like to ask you a few simple questions. Can you confirm that such conventiond dwellings as defined and cited in my question under Annex XXXVI to Royal Decree No. - 20? - Yeah. If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u83	Your question concerns one of the conditions for granting the reduced rate of VAT on social housing, in particular the recognition as a regional housing society or as a housing society for social housing which they have recognised. By judgment of 7 November 2013, the Constitutional Court annulled retroactively the articles relating to the standards on social housing provision and the social security charges of the Flemish Decree of 27 March 2009 on land and buildings policy. The social burden obliged the landlord or builder to act so that a share of social housing would be realised in construction and landing projects of certain size. One of the possible ways of implementing the social burden was the introduction in kind, in which the developers could opt to realize social rental or buying homes themselves. The article of that Flemish decree, which was destroyed by the Constitutional Court, expressly provided that the social part of the construction project was deemed to have been achieved by a social housing company. As a result, one of the conditions for applying the reduced VAT rate was automatically met. The consequences of the judgment of the Constitutional Court were discussed in spring 2014 by the policy cell of my predecessor and representatives of the competent Flemish minister. These consultations led to a consensus that, following the deletion of the contested provision, a distinction should be made when the developer has opted to carry out the social burden imposed on him in kind. The sale by the developer of social housing he built to recognised social housing companies may be subject to the reduced VAT rate of 6%, provided that the other conditions are also met. On the other hand, the provision of social housing by a developer directly to the social target group is not intended if the conditions of explicit recognition as a social housing society are not met. Respect by the landlord of the Flemish Ministerial Decree of 14 May 2013 laying down the technical standards to be met by social housing plots does not in itself imply recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u84	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I will look at it again and see to what extent we can return to it with regard to social housing under private construction. In order to create even more social housing, it would be good to be able to build the construction covered by the social housing standard of the regional VMSW at a reduced rate of 6%, as an advantage for private housing in recognised social housing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u85	Mr Van Mechelen, we can't, but we're among ourselves now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u86	The philosophy of the decree was always that this way private companies in turn would realize social housing in the context of social security contributions. Actually, the philosophy was that through the Flemish Confederation of the Construction Industry a socially recognised housing company would be established for the private sector to realize those homes. Minister, I think you might have to consider with the Flemish Confederation whether that possibility could not be created in this way, because that was the philosophy of the decree that I remember.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u87	Mr. Chair, Minister, the government would be on the verge of coming to a conclusion in the matter of the Royal Order on the Accreditation of Collaborative Economy Platforms. In order to benefit from the recently introduced reduced tax system, operators were asked to register with the FPS Finance services. Today, some economic actors have already taken the lead by taking 10% of users' income, with a view to implementing the legal framework. At the outset, Minister, allow me to welcome this situation and to welcome the completion of a key issue for the promotion of the digital economy in our country. I would also like to stress the need not to relax efforts and to strengthen the achievements already achieved. Minister, what exactly is the number of operators registered to date? What is planned for the economic actors who will be embarking on this particular sector of activity in the future? Are there any other orders planned? Finally, according to the information at your disposal, how many users could currently be affected by this reduced tax system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u88	Mr Calomne, royal decrees dated 26 April 2017 and published in the Belgian Moniteur of 8 May 2017 approved eight platforms with regard to the new collaborative economy tax regime. In addition, four other platforms have gone through all the administrative stages and are included in a draft decree which will shortly be submitted to the King for signature. So, twelve in all. Finally, my administration informs me that other platforms have applied for approval. The administrative procedure is still under way. The information currently available to me does not allow me to estimate the number of users that could be involved. However, based on the figures published by eight of the first 12 approved platforms, it can be estimated that at least 6,500 people are already potentially affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u89	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u90	Question No 18209 by Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u91	Minister, following the collapse of the Rana Plaza in April 2013, an international awareness emerged about the production conditions of the globalized textile industry. A number of efforts have been made to support respect for the rights of clothing workers, but these efforts are now tending to run out. It is in this context that NGOs, such as the achACT platform, are relaunching the fight to demand transparency across this industry. Today, it remains impossible for a consumer to know who made his clothes, in what factory and under what conditions. Like this platform, minister, I do not consider it normal. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What exactly is the information contained in the customs files? Is it possible, on the basis of these files, to find out precisely where certain products imported into Belgium come from? Who has access to these files? Is this information transmitted to the SPF Economy? Can this information be made public in any way, either published or consulted by associations and/or parliamentarians? And is there a form of harmonisation of files at European level? So at European level, what kind of information will be found in these files? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u92	Mrs Grovonius, four questions, so four answers. First, the customs authorities shall have the data which must be completed in the customs declaration PLDA with a view to applying the provisions governing the customs procedure for which the goods are declared, and the accompanying documents which, where appropriate, must be in the possession of the declarant and at the disposal of the customs authorities at the time of the deposit of the customs declaration for the application of the provisions governing the customs procedure for which the goods are declared. With regard to your second question, a number of data are extracted from the PLDA declarations to supply two separate data banks: Eurostat, on the one hand, and DG TAXUD's tariff surveillance system, on the other. The Eurostat data are sent by PLDA to the National Bank, which in turn transmits them to Eurostat. Monitoring data are sent directly via the NCC-CSI (common communications network – common system interface) interface to the Commission. There is no direct link to the FPS Economy. To answer your third question, the data compiled by Eurostat are freely available on a website whose address I transmit to you, while the Surveillance data are confidential in nature. The declarations to be included in the customs declarations are laid down by European regulations. Monitoring data are the same for all Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for the elements of the answer that I will be able to read in depth when I have the text in front of me. The main question to which I would have wished to have an answer, which I do not see, is: with all the elements collected, can I, as a consumer or as a parliamentarian, for a product which arrives in Belgium - in this case, clothing - know where it was manufactured from the beginning to the end of the chain? I didn't understand if that was the case. I will come back eventually with an additional question, since that is where the difficulty arises today. If we want to have transparency and if, when an event like the one at Rana Plaza occurs, we want to know which firms had workers and manufactures there. We can't figure it out today. Can these items be found in customs files? If not, how can this information be obtained? I will therefore come back eventually with additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u94	Minister, in a series of cases, a person whose gross amount of pension increases sees the net amount of his pension stagnating or, worse, decreasing. That's what we call "pension trap." This results from the fact that for households with no other type of income, pensions and replacement income are tax exempt to the extent that they do not exceed a maximum amount. The problem arises when the latter is reached, because the additional communal cents are not sufficiently neutralized. This is a paradoxical and particularly unfair situation. Any revalorisation of the gross pension should, in fact, lead to a net revalorisation. We have already tried to find a structural solution to this problem. Indeed, in 2015, I had already tabled a bill to increase the amount of the exemption by 9% in order to take into account the additional communal cents. This solution could be adopted by amendment to the programme law of 10 August 2015 However, while a substantial improvement could be made in this way, it became apparent that this measure did not cover all cases and that people were still victims of this unfair situation. Minister, as your majority is about to pass a law allowing workers to pay a contribution in order to buy back their years of study and thus raise the amount of their pension, this issue is of crucial importance - you will understand that my point is more directed to Mr Bacquelaine. Under the current system, some workers will have paid a contribution to have a lower net pension. As a first step, the government stated that you would find a solution before the bill was passed. In the end, it won't be. During the discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs, the Minister for Pensions said that discussions were then taking place between experts from the Pensions and Finance Offices. He also said that you were responsible for proposing a structural solution, but only for the next budgetary control. We're close to it. Minister, my questions are as follows. What are the problems observed? What about the discussions between your firm's experts and Pensions? Have any leads been mentioned? If so, what are they? Above all, when can a solution be presented?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u95	Mr Laaouej, as already stated in your question, or rather in your analysis, the experts from the office of the Minister of Pensions and my office have agreed on this very important issue. They proposed an amendment to Article 154 § 3/1 of the Income Tax Code 92, which prevents an increase in the gross pension from leading to a decrease in net income after tax. This well-developed and well-analyzed proposal is currently being discussed within the government. We will soon have a decision on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u96	All right! I thank the Minister of Finance for the answer and take note of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u97	Minister, we have learned in recent weeks that the Council of State has stopped the appointment of three French-speaking members of the ruling service, apparently following a complaint from an ex-member of the college, who has gone to the Council of State because he would have been wrongly dismissed. The judgment of the Council of State dates back to 28 April and since then, it appears that the Board of the ruling service no longer meets. Belgian taxpayers, whether private or corporate, can therefore no longer obtain rulings at this time, as long as that case is not cleared. This does not, of course, improve the legal certainty and continuity of the files of individuals and businesses. For the sake of legal certainty and continuity, it is important that the College is and can work again as soon as possible. Hence my questions, Minister. What have you done and what will you do to get the service operational as soon as possible? Can you clarify whether the provision of services, continuity and legal certainty for taxpayers are currently under threat?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u98	Mr. President, I'm being asked a question. It appears that Francophone members of the College of the Advance Tax Rulings Service are challenged by a recent decision of the Conseil d'État. According to my sources, a call for applications is published this Wednesday, May 10, to relaunch an appointment procedure on this subject. It is unusual, Minister, to note that the procedure envisaged is not that provided for in the regulations relating to the operation of the Service and in which no oral examination is scheduled. In addition, it was not imposed on Dutch-speaking members of the College. Are you not afraid, Minister, of de facto rescission of the appointment procedure by acting in a counter legem manner? How do you justify this procedure, rather than the one provided for in the relevant legislation? I'm sure I can thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u99	Indeed, it is true that in its judgment of 28 April last year the Council of State annulled the appointment of the three French-speaking College Members to the Department for Pre-decisions in Tax Matters, the ruling service. Since the ruling service, as you have also pointed out, is extremely important for the tax certainty of private companies, SMEs, large companies and non-profit organisations, I immediately instructed my administration to remedy this situation as quickly as possible. On 10 May, today, a new call for candidates appeared in the Belgian Official Journal. That happened effectively. Applications must be submitted within 10 working days. We are therefore making every effort to ensure that decisions can be taken again. In the meantime, applications may still be submitted and the files will be reviewed by the staff of the Service. The draft decisions will also be prepared by the staff so that a decision can be taken as soon as the College is, again, operational. Finally, it is also important to note that the judgment of the Council of State does not affect the legal certainty of the decisions taken by the College from 1 May 2015. This is a very important message for the applicants, and I would like to emphasise it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u100	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that the procedure can be completed as quickly as possible and that the College can be fully operational as soon as possible, so that its operation is further guaranteed. It is also a good thing that you have underlined the validity of decisions taken in recent months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u101	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u102	Did you get answers to your questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u103	No, it's disappointing, but it's no big deal! [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u104	Minister, this question has already been put to you in plenary, but there were some additional elements that I wanted to put to you. In addition, in plenary, you had not given many answers. Since then, a citizen movement called "Belfius is ours" has held a general assembly in Brussels to oppose this privatisation. On the other hand, we have heard that the CD&V seems to oppose such privatization in the absence of a solution for ARCO.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u105	No, it's much more nuanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u106	Good thing you're here, Mr. President! Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Even if the concrete privatisation plan has not yet been submitted to it, has the government reached an agreement in principle on the privatisation of Belfius? I think the answer is positive, but I would like to hear it. What is the purpose of this privatization? Do you have an quantified projection of the state's financial losses and gains in the event of a sale of part of Belfius' capital? For example: on the one hand, the loss of dividends for the State; on the other, the reduction of interest payable on the debt? It seemed to me to understand that, in the case of BNP Paribas, you said that the financial balance sheet was negative. Is that the case here, too? Is the question of ARCO present in your case of the privatisation of Belfius? If so, how? What do you answer to the citizen movement "Belfius is ours", which defends a truly public bank, focusing on the benefits that its activity can bring to our country's population and economy, rather than on the pursuit of profit for its shareholders? This also raises the question of the social situation within the company, particularly for Belfius staff. Finally, what is your assessment of the privatization of public credit institutions in the 1990s, particularly the Crédit Communal and the CGER, which caused disasters after their privatization?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u107	Mr Van Hees, the government has not yet taken any specific decision on the privatisation of Belfius. The files are subject to careful analysis and follow-up. In the context of privatisation, the following objectives are of major importance: 1. the stability of the financial sector; 2. the bank must comply internally with the conditions of sale; 3. the decision-making centre of the financial institution must be maintained in Belgium; 4. to limit negative social effects, particularly in terms of employment and economic development; 5. contribute to the consolidation of public finances and the reduction of exposure in the financial sector; 6. seek to recover the resources invested. As you certainly know, Belfius' dividends currently amount to €215 million. If shares are sold, they will be reduced proportionately if the dividend per share remains unchanged. The reduction in interest payable on the debt depends on the value to which the shares can be sold. This exact value is not known at this time. More generally, I believe that it is possible to devise methods of privatisation in which the interests of both shareholders and other actors can converge. Smart, well-thought-out privatization makes this possible. Smart privatization can increase the size of the cake, so that all actors end up with a larger share. Everyone is then satisfied. The image that only one part of the cake wins a privatisation by giving itself the largest share of the cake is not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u108	Minister, thank you. On ARCO, no comments? Would you not have forgotten part of the question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u109	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u110	All right. I will stick to that on the ARCO issue. For the rest, I cannot agree with your vision of privatization. On the other hand, I appreciate the inventiveness of your answer. Talking about smart privatization is quite interesting as a formula. The results of privatisations in Belgium are rather negative. Remember the privatization of Fortis or the CGER. For 130 years, the CGER worked smoothly. Ten years after being privatized, it was the virtual bankruptcy of Fortis in 2008. I think the balance sheet is negative. The same could be said for Crédit Communal and Dexia, even if they were public shareholders. We must believe, Minister, that none of these privatisations were intelligent. Fortunately, you come up with this notion of intelligent privatization. I hope we can note the irony in my remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u111	Mr President, I am tempted to ask Mr. Van Hees: What is his analysis of what happened with Dexia? It is a public bank, not private, with which some incidents occurred. But I don't have the right to ask questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u112	I was gonna say it! This is an interesting turnaround in procedure. You're asking questions. But I could answer you. This is also the problem of the "Belfius is ours" platform. They make the same observation; Belfius is now a public-capital bank, but it functions like a private bank, which is normal since it is given as a mission to be privatized. So the bride must be beautiful to be privatized. What happened with Dexia is the same problem. Although the capital was public, there was still an introduction to the stock exchange, which still has an effect that is not trivial. It therefore did not function as a public society. It worked according to the logic of private companies, with a profit to be made at all costs, rather than to satisfy the needs of the population or those of the staff. That's Dexia's problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u113	It doesn't matter whether the shareholder is public or private.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u114	This is a necessary condition, but not enough, let us say.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u115	One day we'll have to write an article on "smart nationalization". What does "nationalizing an economy" mean? You want to nationalize everything - not only banks, but also companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u116	Mr. Chairman, we do not want to nationalize the CD&V!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u117	I would like to read an essay on this. The budget cost of your programme is EUR 50 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u118	Mr President, excuse me, but what has cost Belgium dearly is not the public banks, but the private banks - it is Fortis, in this case, which has cost the public finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u119	Yeah, but don't send me back the ball. What does an "intelligent nationalisation of the economy" mean? And what is the budgetary cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u120	Mr. President, I will do that for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u121	I will give you the floor at any time in this committee to address this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u122	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u123	Questions Nos 18266 and 18301 by Mrs Karin Temmerman are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u124	Minister, there is a grudge now affecting the FPS Finances, among other things because of the versatility imposed on tax controllers because of the lack of staff. You addressed this issue at a meeting on May 5 with the union representatives of the SPF. In addition, the common union front has sent you a petition on the Internet. The signatories note that: "Following the shortage of staff and the lack of VAT officers, management has decided to impose a versatility within AGFisc, not a versatility of services, but a versatility of agents. This versatility is a problem for the vast majority of staff (inadequate and inadequate training, loss of credibility during controls, stress, frustration and demotivation, etc.) and it will no doubt result from a reduction in tax revenues related to controls. Specialized FPS Finance officers are required to ensure quality control against numbers specialists. The right perception and the fight against tax fraud depend on it." Beyond the central issue of the SPF's workforce, the signatories make various claims against which I would like to know your position. Do you agree that "in recruitment, a fair distribution of assignments in both taxes (VAT and direct contributions) is achieved"? That "the versatility of agents as currently envisaged within AGFisc be abandoned"? That "for control services, the workload is linked to the composition of each service"? That "a greater degree of autonomy be granted to staff in the selection of checks"? That "genuine continuing training be given to staff"? That "the authority quickly and structurally organizes specific career examinations"?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u125	Mr. Van Hees, you're asking me six questions. To answer the first question, I would like to point out that there is no fair distribution of allocations in both taxes. The purpose of the administration is to monitor the issues that are brought to light. These may vary over time and, in particular, depending on the evolution of society. New trainees from SMEs and large companies will receive multi-faceted training. Then, depending on the needs, specific training will be devoted to one or the other tax. During my meeting with the unions, in accordance with my policy brief, I indicated that I supported the request for targeted expertise. In response to your second question, as I have already announced in my policy note of October 28th, the versatility of officers as currently envisaged by the AGFisc must be abandoned. In this respect, those responsible for SMEs and large companies will remain tax specialists, but will receive adequate training on the other tax in order to be able to establish the link in the management of a case or during a check and in order to be able to make corrections in both taxes in certain limited and well defined cases in terms of turnover control. Moreover, the deepening of versatility by certain agents could be organised on a voluntary basis. The officer will then be assisted in the process by appropriate training. Thirdly, the overall composition of the Regional Centre should first assess the workload and allocate it, where appropriate, on the basis of the expertise available in the services comprising the Centre. However, it is not structurally justifiable to reserve different treatment for taxpayers with the same level of risk. Therefore, if the distribution of staff competencies is unevenly distributed, a rebalancing should be carried out as soon as possible, for example through mobility mechanisms, recruitment or training. Fourthly, officers have a 20% autonomy in their work plan. Too much autonomy would run counter to the equal treatment of taxpayers throughout the country. It would not be logical, for example, that, in a centre, because a Horeca specialist is available, the sector has a much larger number of controls than in the rest of the country. In this case, the solution is to pool knowledge and organize a general control action which will weigh in the same way according to the same risk on each taxpayer, regardless of the Region in which it is located and the centre on which it depends. Fifthly, genuine continuing technical training is essential. At the moment, AGFisc offers its agents a package of technical training (basic training for trainees, basic training for employees who have to learn another way as part of the changeover and basic training for employees who have to do multi-purpose actions specifically for management or control tasks). Sixth question. Promotion and accession procedures are regularly organized, allowing employees to advance in their careers, either as a leader or as an expert. As part of these procedures, the technical skills of employees are thoroughly tested. Currently, at AGFisc, 386 places are open for promotion or accession, demonstrating a real opportunity to pursue a career within AGFisc.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u126	Minister, thank you for these fairly comprehensive answers. With regard to the last two points, training and career opportunities, you seem to say that this already exists. One wonders, then, why the unions claim what already exists. On the autonomy of the selection of files, you state that it is a matter of equal treatment. However, it is observed that the files selected are less efficient than the files selected by the officers. This is still a problem. More fundamentally, I note, in a rather positive way, that you clearly say that the versatility of agents must be abandoned. It is an answer that satisfies me as a general principle, hoping, of course, that it will be practically feasible, given the number of people who are declining. This is a perfect transition for the next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u127	Mr. Chairman, my two questions are related. It is because there are too few staff that we have a problem of versatility imposed on agents, for example, direct contributions, who are asked to deal with VAT-related matters and who do not have control over them. FPS Finance workers are angry at the lack of staff within their department. This is not a new fact: the problem continues to grow. They note, among other things, that this lack has a negative influence on the quality of their work, for example, through the imposition of versatility, a subject that has just been addressed. The FPS Finance unions have launched several initiatives. They met with you this May 5th to share their grievances with you. They have launched a petition and there are also references to possible work stoppages as taxpayers complete their tax returns on the FPS Finance premises. According to the website pdata (official website) which provides the statistics of the federal public personnel, the evolution of the workforce in the FPS Finances is as follows. The number of FTEs as of January 1, 2007 was 31,723; as of January 1, 2015, it was 24,471; as of January 1, 2017, it was 22,583! This means that, over two years of this Parliament, nearly 2,000 jobs have been lost. Over ten years, there are more than 9,000 jobs! Reductions in staff are generally justified by the computerization of processes. Is there an objective study on the impact of FPS Finance's relatively laborious computerization on staff needs (or reduction)? Did you get an agreement on the staff of the FPS Finances during your interview with the unions? To your knowledge, is there a possibility that taxpayers will not be able to complete their tax returns this year, therefore before June 30, due to a staff reaction? What will be the evolution of the FPS Finance workforce during what remains of the legislature, e.g. January 1, 2018 and January 1, 2019? Can you guarantee that the number of FTEs on January 1, 2017 will not decrease or even increase?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u128	Mr Van Hees, as far as your first question is concerned, the FPS Finance has a long history of automating its working processes for the benefit of the citizens. Many applications have been created within the FPS to optimize the complexity of tax legislation. This has made it possible to absorb, at least in part, the successive reductions in the number of FPS officials, accentuated by the natural departure curve. However, the FPS does not stop at the creation of applications, but also continues to make progress by optimising electronic services and providing better interaction between it and other public services. The administration is still carrying out a series of tasks with less added value, such as information retrieval and classification. An internal digitalization programme is under way to automate these tasks and to cope with future savings in staff credits. FPS Finance has also been trying to measure the impact of these projects in recent years. Measuring workload is one of the key tools we are currently working on, now that the work processes have been described in the various jurisdictions that make up the FPS Finance. The projects that, in the first instance, will reduce the administrative workload of the FPS are the development of web interfaces as well as the complete and intelligent scanning of documents at the entrance. With the saved working time, the SPF aims to strengthen its control tasks and its service to citizens and businesses. With respect to your second question, in the FPS Finance Sector Agreement, I undertook to submit to the government a file with the purpose of replacing one for one of the control functions identified as such. I pledge to continue to defend this case. With regard to your third question, the General Tax Administration will make every effort not to jeopardise the provision of services for the filling of returns. Finally, with respect to your fourth question, the number of FPS Finance staff has decreased by 11% over the past five years. As the age pyramid within the FPS Finances leads to high annual departures, a decline is still to be expected in the coming years. In 2016, our replacement rate was 75%. It is not currently possible to provide accurate figures on future staff developments, considering that these figures depend on different unknown parameters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic659x.u129	Minister, I apologize for the astonishment of your answer to the last point. The age pyramid is such that there are many natural departures, but replacing them is hardly difficult. All you have to do is hire people. Moreover, this phenomenon is quite predictable since the age pyramid is known well in advance. It seems to me that the other types of departure are not huge in the FPS Finances. In other words, if there was a willingness to maintain staff, it would be quite feasible. We must not protect ourselves behind pseudo-technical arguments. I note that, for control functions, the replacement will be in the order of one for one. By the way, this contradicts your answer to my fourth question as it is therefore possible, in this case, to replace a departure with a hiring. The question that can be asked is: why is it impossible for the other functions? That said, it's at least something guaranteed. Finally, to return to the first part of my question, you explain that the SPF is trying to measure the impact of computerization. Well, he's trying; that's good. So you confirm to me that no objective study has been prepared to assess the actual impact of computerization on staff. It is used to justify the downsizing of personnel, but we do not have objective and scientific analyses in this regard. You yourself said that computerization could absorb, at least in part, the reduction of staff, but we do not know how much.
