ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u1	Mr President, Minister, last year the administration criticized the point pension system as designed by the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040. The criticisms of SPF Pensions and INASTI were even harsh enough. The system would be expensive and unhelpful. At the time, you indicated that you were awaiting the final opinion of the National Pension Committee (NPC). We have just learned that the social partners have received a refined version of the point system. The press is talking about a completed document. At the same time, four members of the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040 published an article in UCL's journal Economic Insights to present the system in a more didactic way than in their report. Mr Minister, do you confirm that the document sent to the social partners concerns the same system as that proposed by the Pension Reform Commission? Otherwise, how is he different? What are the supplements mentioned by the press? Have the experts provided any clarifications and/or simplifications that would respond to the criticisms of the administration? What is the status of the work of the National Pension Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u2	Mr. President, please excuse my slight delay. Minister, we have already had an opportunity to discuss the subject of point pension – whether in committee or in plenary. This topic was discussed by the National Pensions Committee, where the social partners received a note detailing a future point pension system. Some members of the Committee have, moreover, published an article that explains it. Under this scheme, the worker earns points in proportion to the gross wage in relation to the average gross wage. These points are recorded until retirement, after which they are converted into euro using a coefficient. Minister, in a previous discussion, you said that the point system was not the essential one for you, since the reforms you were considering could be carried out without it. Nevertheless, the government agreement provides for this. As the case seems to be moving forward, I would like to ask you again about it. This project raises concerns on the part of workers' representatives. Indeed, they fear that pensioners will no longer be considered as a budgetary adjustment variable, since the value of the point may be set by the government. Several unknowns hover over the said value. I'll ask you seven little questions, minister. Is the pension system presented in the journal Economic Insights by the four members of the National Pension Committee identical to that presented to the LWOP? What are the differences between the two projects? Are the government's criticisms, which are quite strong, taken into account in this project? How does the government determine the value of the point in the proposed system? Is there a list of objective criteria for the determination of the point, which is fundamental? The publication speaks of a "rule of intergenerational sharing": could you clarify this notion? How will similar periods be valued? Are these similar periods broken down into categories in the system presented? Some people have a shorter career, especially women. Are compensatory measures provided for? A point system is based on a reference career. What is the length of time mentioned in the Committee? Is this duration, in the system, fixed or scalable according to longevity? Finally, I turn to the theme of the penitibility that we will re-examine later in the day. How is penitibility integrated into the point system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u3	Mr Daerden, you have tabled your question twice. Is it because this is an important issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u4	It's to show my interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u5	Will we have the answer twice or once?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u6	Mr Daerden has two out of ten points!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u7	So I'll ask ten questions to get ten points! Minister, the pension reform contained in the government agreement contains several elements. One of the most important elements is, of course, raising the retirement age to 67 years, which has a significant budgetary impact on the costs of ageing. The system of points is a second very important reform that should be in place. It is a fundamental reform of our pension calculation. I receive letters and e-mails from many citizens asking why pensions can differ so much between the different systems. Why, for example, is a civil servant's pension so much higher than an employee's pension? Why should a self-employed person be satisfied with an average pension of EUR 800 or 900, while others receive so much more? Minister, a few days ago it was three years since the elections of 25 May 2014. In the meantime, therefore, the legislature is already more than halfway through. You know that there will be local elections in autumn 2018 and national elections in 2019. It is therefore, I believe, high time to start the debate on this issue. I also think it would be wise to involve Parliament in this process, so that we can have a reformed system which is widely supported by the public. The point system offers the possibility of starting a white sheet. Of course, the principle must be that work must always yield more pension than it does not work, that goes without saying. Where do you stand on the preparation of the new point system? Will you involve Parliament and, in particular, this committee in this preparation on time? Or will that only happen when the draft law is ready and then we can say yes or no? Do you confirm that the credit system will ensure that the pensions of civil servants, employees and self-employed persons will be fully equal in the long term and that there will be no difference?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm to you that the point pension system, as presented in the journal Economic Insights by four members of the National Pension Committee, does indeed correspond to the project presented to that committee. This is, in fact, a summary of some aspects of the point pension system. The various pension administrations had indeed criticised the introduction of the pension with points. Following this criticism, several working meetings took place between the administration and the academic board to clarify certain points and to find solutions to the problems raised. On the basis of these discussions, a joint note from the pension administrations and the academic board will be drawn up and will shortly be presented to the National Pension Committee, with an orientation paper on the pension with points and the part-time pension. We will work on point and partial pension simultaneously, because the start of the partial pension must be done on a point system so as not to further complicate the whole system. In the point pension system as designed by the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040, the point value is equal to the ratio between the reference wage (average occupational income in the scheme in question) and the reference period (number of years for a full pension) multiplied by the target replacement rate. When the Academic Council invokes the principle of intergenerational solidarity, it refers to the fact that the points accumulated throughout the professional career will, when calculating the pension, be converted into euros according to the average gross monthly wage at the time the pension takes place. The value of the point will therefore depend on the economic context at the time someone takes up their pension. This means that the pension replacement rate will refer to the salary of the assets. Of course, in the law, it will be a matter of defining objective elements and formulae that allow the value of the point to be calculated. But the main principle is, of course, to take account of the economic context. If wages have risen sharply, the pension will also increase. That's what that means. If wages remain low, with a low rate of increase, and if we want to maintain a replacement rate that is the same, necessarily, the pension will increase less as well. What is important is to provide for a replacement rate. The Commission provides for certain periods of inactivity to be taken into account in its point-based pension system, which is referred to as equivalent periods, although it is not very clear from the list of similar periods to be taken into account. It's a work that still needs to be done. In any event, the periods of involuntary unemployment and periods of invalidity and incapacity for work remain the same. As regards the value of the point for similar periods, the report proposes two possibilities which, in fact, already exist in the current system. It is either assimilation on the basis of the last wage received before the period of inactivity, or assimilation on the basis of a lump sum wage, such as the right to the real minimum. As far as the specifics of women's careers are concerned, I can tell you that taking into account similar periods as well as the existence of a minimum protection system, such as the current minimum guaranteed pension, will ensure a proper pension level for both women and men in the point system. I would also remind you, in this context, that I have asked the National Pensions Committee and the Expert Centre to analyse the family dimension – we will talk about it this afternoon – and the derived rights within our pension system so that it is better adapted to societal changes. Mr Daerden, I have never said that the point pension system is not essential! I said that the point-based pension system is not essential for considering the reforms that we have already voted on. Nuance! Because some would, for example, have wanted nothing to be done until the point pension system was defined. No! There are two principles that the point pension system will integrate. On the one hand, it is the fact that we need to work a little longer and those who will work a little longer will accumulate more points; it is the relationship between pension and work. On the other hand, it is the harmonisation which the President spoke of. There is a need for greater harmonization between the pensions of the three schemes. I'm not saying that with a magic wand, overnight, we're going to do exactly the same thing; there's going to be a period of transition. But the aim is to move towards more harmonization, a little as the new French President's project presents, a point-based pension system which is exactly the same as the one we are proposing. This is the Bacquelaine-Macron project and not Macron-Bacquelaine! It is therefore a European trend. I am convinced that the point pension will become the European system and so much the better! This is already the case in Scandinavian countries, also in Germany, with variants; this will soon be the case in France too. If the pension system can be harmonised at European level, this will facilitate the growing number of cross-border careers. This is obviously an important aspect. The point system is based on a reference career which evolves in particular according to the demographic context and possibly also according to changes in the structural economic context. Such a definition of the reference career thus allows it to automatically evolve according to life expectancy. At this stage, the duration of this reference career has not yet been determined and will be discussed in the National Pension Committee. I can also confirm that the goal is to eventually integrate penitentiality into the point system. In fact, the point system must be the receptacle of all future reforms - partial pension and penitentiaries. The system of penitibility would translate into a penitential account with points that would be added to the points of the classical career and that would allow either to leave earlier or to leave with a higher pension. We're gonna work on that theme. I will not fail to inform the members of the Social Affairs Committee about the evolution of the dossier. Furthermore, I think that we will be able to organise a session of our committee very quickly, as soon as the guidance note is ready. It is normally to be presented to the National Pension Committee at the end of June. From this moment on, we can organise a session, not a voting session on a project of course, but a discussion on the evolution of the system. It is possible to do so with the academic council, in fact, and to hold this discussion in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u9	Minister, thank you. It is true that I have always been convinced that this system was good. In fact, at the time when we were starting to talk about point pensions, I had organised a small conference for the population of my commune. Since these matters are very complicated, I would like today to stress the importance of demystifying them and playing on transparency and understanding, so as not to discourage our workers and to maintain confidence and belief in this system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u10	Minister, thank you for these few clarifications. I agree with your proposal. When the guidance note is drafted, I hope that we will change here before we are too far in the process and everything is completed. This reform can be fundamental, because, even if it is not indispensable (and I understand that you consider it essential), it can both make no difference as well as its opposite. Your presentation did not strengthen me in particular with regard to how to set the parameters. This model is a potentially rich calculation model, because it can integrate all dimensions. As my colleague has said, it must remain sufficiently transparent and clear, so that it remains understandable for future pensioners and pensioners. It must also not be an opportunity to change the logic of calculation and the logic of determining pensions, particularly at the level of assimilated periods and at the level of penitibility. In a mathematical model, anything is possible. However, policy choices must be consistent with what is needed to maintain decent pensions. The element that scares me the most is the one related to the variability of the point. I can understand that the economic context has an influence and that a point determined in 2045 does not have the same value as a point determined in 2020. But I fear that the point will be variable during the pension, which would represent a fairly high level of insecurity for the pensioner. This is something to which particular attention should be paid, beyond all the other elements I have mentioned. But we will have an opportunity to have discussions on this, which could, moreover, be exciting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I propose that we hold an exchange of views with you and possibly members of the academic council with our committee at the beginning of July, in order to discuss a number of modalities. I am thinking, among other things, of what Mr Daerden says about the value of a point and how it evolves. I also understand from the coalition agreement that the points system will enter into force from 2030 onwards. That is therefore a long-term reform. Anyone who wants to see his full pension calculated in points will start working from 2030. This is a very long-term reform, but it is necessary when it comes to pensions. I also note your ambition to harmonise pensions in the long or very long term. It's like the elephant in the porcelain cabinet, I know, but I say things the way they are. It means that, in the long term, future pensions for employees and self-employed people will improve and reduce them for civil servants and politicians, unless you make promises to us, Minister, that everyone will eventually receive the pension of an official. I want to see all this promised, and I know that some will promise it, but in the long run it will not be affordable. When we talk about harmonisation, of course, we are also talking about harmonisation in the area of statutory and supplementary pensions, so that we also have equal treatment in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, I intend to hold such a meeting at the beginning of July, if you will allow it. Then we can have a first reflection for the summer recess based on the note. Then the intention will be to put the draft to the vote in the autumn, or at the latest in spring 2018 when the electoral fever begins to strike. I suppose you want this approved for this term of office. Or is it something for your successor?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u12	Not only is it for this legislature, but I even wish to anticipate 2030. Indeed, I think we can imagine a system that allows the current pension rights to be transferred into a point system. Feasibility still needs to be discussed. There is, however, an evolution. You were talking about the administration's initial report. This has changed a lot since then. The administration is now fully convinced of the need for this reform. There is a great deal of convergence on the objectives. I think that the system could be presented to Parliament with texts at the end of the year. It will be difficult to do this before. Indeed, there is nothing to be done: an important phase of social consultation must be carried out. The National Pensions Committee is a machine that is also heavy and must be taken into account. A meeting was held yesterday to set the agendas of the National Pension Committee. At the end of June, there should be an important meeting of the National Pension Committee on this subject. In July, we will have a guidance note. We will probably start drafting the texts in September or October and will have the texts at the end of the year. I would like to be able to incorporate the concept of partial pension. It seems important to me to make it all coherent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u13	Mr President, Mr Minister, I wanted to go back to the impact of the pension reform of the statutory agents of the local authorities on the communal finances. This reform, voted in 2011 and gradually entered into force from 2012, has a significant impact on communal finances. At the time, this impact was estimated, according to the three Unions of the cities and communes of the country, at a cumulative additional cost of 2,253 billion euros, or about 581.7 million in Wallonia. The impact is particularly significant for municipalities which have, over time, limited the recruitment of statutory agents and promoted the engagement of contractors. They must now pay an accountability levy which may, in some cases, call into question the conditions for a structural budgetary balance. This is particularly the case for municipalities under management plans, which have been encouraged or forced to severely limit the number of statutory agents to the benefit of contractors and which are, in a way, caught between the hammer and the anvil. Minister, what is the revenue obtained as a result of the obligation on certain municipalities to pay this solidarity contribution? What progress has been made in terms of the number of public servants appointed by the municipalities following the adoption of the law? At this stage, has this mechanism been useful in relation to the objective of restoring the financial balance of the system? Are you aware of municipalities in financial difficulty because of this accountability assessment? In the face of these difficulties, is the federal authority considering adapting the legal framework to help them meet their financial pension burden? For the first questions, I obviously accept an encrypted table that I will not oblige you to read in the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to public sector pensions administered by the Federal Pension Service, I can give you figures on the impact of the pension reform of local government statutory staff on municipal finances. I'll actually give you a picture. It provides an overview of the evolution of revenues related to the accountability assessment. Accountability contributions for a given year are actually collected at the end of the year following the year in question. For example, 2012 contributions were collected at the end of 2013. It's also a question. I think we should, at some point, be more in real life. Total accountability contributions were $153 million in 2012. The simulation for 2016 is 335 million, a significant increase over the 266 million in 2015. The second table provides an overview of the evolution, in absolute figures and percentages, of the number of staff appointed in administrations that were affiliated as of January 1, 2012. In 2012, 110,194 officers were appointed. (I speak in full-time equivalents) 2016 figures are 106,271, a decrease of about 2% from the 108,412 officers in 2015. I would point out, however, that the communes that pay large contributions of accountability are the communes that have made savings on the social contributions of their agents. The free choice is left to the communes. They either appoint and pay significantly higher contributions than contract workers, or they prefer not to appoint. Gradually, the relationship between the appointed staff and pensioners will change and they will pay a larger accountability contribution. Local governments therefore make a political choice. In addition to basic pension and accountability contributions, the Consolidated Fund still has the Reserve Fund of the former Pool 1 and the Amortization Fund. The financial balance is now reaching, even if the costs continue to grow, year by year. The supervision of the municipalities is of course within the competence of the Regions and the administration of pensions is not responsible for any financial difficulties which municipalities may encounter in the field of accountability contributions. In order to reduce the burden of local government pensions, the Government has initiated certain structural measures, in particular by raising the legal age of early retirement, by tightening the age and career conditions. The gradual abolition of the career bonus will also have very positive effects on the pension expenditure of the Consolidated Fund. In the near future, another measure will ensure the sustainability of the fund: the introduction of the system of the mixed pension scheme, long awaited by the Unions of cities and municipalities in the three regions, and by the social partners. A fairly widespread agreement is therefore emerging on this project, which includes the creation of a possibility of supplementary pension for contract workers, in particular. From 1 January 2017, we had to apply not only the accountability contribution, but also the regularization contribution provided for in the "Daerden" project. This regularisation contribution was to collect the backlog of social contributions over several years, when staff appointed as statutory employees had worked as a contract worker. This rule was extremely difficult for municipalities to apply. I have asked the administration to delay this regularisation contribution, pending the adoption of the Mixed Pension Act, which will provide for the abolition of the regularisation contribution, which is logical. This is where we are today, Mr Gilkinet!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. We differ on the method used to achieve balance. Instead of a linear increase in career and the abolition of specific schemes which, however, are justified, we are instead calling for structural alternative pension financing. I note that, despite the measure, the number of locally appointed officers continues to decline. It can be estimated that the measure has, however, made it possible to curb this decline. I note that the budgetary balance is being achieved, but it is more through the mobilisation of historical reserves than through the accountability levy, even if the amounts are substantial (over EUR 335 million). I also note that things are going to change again, since as part of the project you are announcing to us on the mixed pension, you will remove the possibility of receiving a full pension if only part of his career has been performed as a statutory agent. We will analyse this in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament 17487 by Mrs Temmerman is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u17	Mr President, Minister, the three regional associations of cities and municipalities (walloon, Brussels and Flemish) support the joint pension scheme for contract workers. However, they make clear reservations about the incentive for local authorities to set up a second pillar while the mixed pension is linked to the generalisation of the second pillar for contract workers. According to the government's agreements, this must be done at the same time. The incentive you are advocating is a reduction in the accountability assessment of jurisdictions. As a reminder, a basic "pension" contribution is paid to the Pension Fund by all local governments employing permanent staff. The assessment of accountability is due only to those who occupy a small number of appointed members, in relation to the pension burden of former appointed members. It is curious to link the establishment of a second pillar for unappointed agents to the contribution to the Appointed Agents Fund because they are separate schemes. But the criticisms of associations representing local authorities go beyond a mere finding of incongruity. Your proposal would be of little use, except to redistribute the charges between local authorities. In fact, the lesser accountability contribution paid by one jurisdiction would be offset by a larger contribution paid by another. Moreover, I quote from their criticism, "local authorities already enjoying a certain degree of solidarity on the part of the other local authorities (despite the contribution of accountability, they contribute less to the financing of the system than to the costs they incur) would therefore still receive a bonus, while the powers which contribute to solidarity do not benefit from any incentives. The link with accountability leads to the exclusion of two thirds of local authorities from the benefit of the promoter." The three associations of cities and municipalities therefore ask for additional resources and wrote you a letter to that effect on 9 March. Minister, if the issue is complex, I agree, my questions are simple. What about the consultation with representatives of local authorities? It seems to me that the success of setting up a second pillar depends to a large extent on their cooperation, and that this is a condition for the success of your reform. Did you meet them? Do you consider their expectations in developing your project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u18	Mrs Caprasse, I can confirm that I met with the representatives of the local authorities, that the consultation took place and that the draft law was submitted to the management committee of the ORPSS (Office for Special Social Security Plans), where the associations of the towns and municipalities are represented. The latter made a number of comments, some of which were taken into account. Since then, I have received the opinion of the Management Committee, which I have taken note of. We will adapt the draft law to take into account – not entirely, but to some extent – the remarks made by the Unions of Cities and Municipalities. Let me now correct your analysis, which I do not think is entirely accurate. There is a clear relationship between the accountability assessment and the second pillar for contractors. If the number of appointed officers is reduced, the administration concerned must pay a significant accountability contribution. In this case, the amount you are going to spend on the second pillar, reserved for contract workers, will be very high. The report's here. On the other hand, if you have many appointed officers, the assessment of accountability will be modest. Similarly, you will pay very little in the second pillar. The report is therefore obvious. At the same time, we need to discuss the rate of the second pillar premiums that can be deducted from the accountability assessment incentive. This was where the opinions of the associations of the cities and communes diverged. Our text will therefore be adapted. In any case, the percentage will be revised by royal decree according to the financial balance of the ORPSS. That's the direction we're going to take. If you don't give an incentive, you simply won't have a second pillar, because it will be impossible for the municipalities to finance it. In other words, you will be moving towards a generalization of the contractual pension system, since no one will name any more, as the municipalities find it very difficult to assume the immediate costs of contributions in the event of an appointment. With this system, we are reintroducing the possibility of appointing agents. Contrary to what is often said, the mixed pension scheme will further promote appointments. Of course, appointments will not give the right to a public sector pension for the whole career. That's right. This is the principle of reform, but it is precisely for this reason that it will become compatible when today, appointments become extremely difficult especially if account is taken of the regularization contribution which has been applicable since 1 January 2017 and which radically prevents any appointment. If the regularization assessment was applied as provided for by law, there would no longer be one appointment. I'm sure of that. Here, by removing the regularisation contribution and introducing the mixed pension, a possibility of appointment is reintroduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u19	Thank you, Minister. I hear your answers. I will look more deeply at the content to analyze in detail what you have explained. In any case, I hope that the consultation with the local authorities will continue because it is really important for the further reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u20	Minister, I will mix the two questions that came at two different times. They are part of the rest of the questions that have just been asked. According to the information provided to us, it would appear that the current system of financing the consolidated pension fund of the local authorities is no longer sustainable. In response to a previous question, you said that there was not yet a danger in the house, due to previous reserves for the depreciation fund, etc. But I am told that there would still be a cash flow problem as early as 2017, perhaps linked to the late n+1 perception. A structural financing problem is expected to emerge as early as 2018. It is linked in particular to the fact that there are fewer and fewer persons appointed to the local authorities. This can be seen from the figures you mentioned earlier. There are generally fewer and fewer staff in the provincial and local public service. Do you confirm this information? Can you tell what the real situation is? Is it clearly catastrophic, and what consequences could this have, both for this fund and for the local authorities? I try to mix the two questions well and I may come back to some aspects by going through the second question. Let me turn to the second pillar of the pension and the mixed pension you have just mentioned. What will be the short-term effect on the Fund and its balance? You're talking about incentives. You have just confirmed that there would be an incentive to deduct from the accountability assessment, which means that the Fund will have less resources if there is an deductibility of this accountability assessment. Will this not increase the Fund's difficulties, and will it not increase its deficit? You don't go ahead with the deductible percentage. At one point, we talked about 50%. Will it be so much reduced that it will no longer really be an incentive? Finally, I would like to parenthesize on this question: for those communes that do not have an accountability assessment, will there be no alternative incentives? Minister, that's what comes out of my two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u21	Mr President, Minister, in 2011, we adopted the law on the financing of local civil servants' pensions. You have just mentioned the basic pension contribution and the response contribution. The invoice for the response contribution for the municipalities is paid two years after the date. That's how it was agreed. This apparently causes problems in the treasury management of the Consolidated Pension Fund. You just confirmed this. The question is at what time the treasury deficits are to be expected. I have heard that since September there would have been a deficit of EUR 100 million, which would mean that 50 000 officials would no longer be paid a pension. That cannot, of course, be the intention. Minister, when will the problems with the treasury arise? I assume that the management committee has already looked into this. What measures will you take to deal with the treasury deficits? How will you guarantee that all pensions will always be paid? In my view, you will be in trouble if you have a policy that is unchanged. This will of course be a huge challenge for the municipalities, because the invoice will eventually go to the local authorities. It is then useful to know how the pension bill will evolve. This is now about the pensions of 2017, but an evolution in spending is expected in the coming years. So what is the evolution of pension invoices for the period 2017-2025? The local authorities have to adjust their multi-annual plans every year. What amount of response contributions will be charged to local authorities per year for the period 2017-2025? I assume that you want to solve the problem of late collection of the amounts by previously collecting the invoices. This will, of course, have incredible consequences for the financial capacity of local authorities. What measures will you take to adjust the frequency of collection of the response contribution and to remedy the related shift? What impact will this have on local authorities? What agreements will you make with local authorities to ensure that this remains feasible for them in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Consolidated Pension Fund is indeed experiencing liquidity problems due to the periodicity of the collection of the assessment of accountability. These difficulties do not call into question the financial balance of the Fund, since the law of 24 October 2011 organized a self-supporting regime. Therefore, it is not a financing problem but a cash flow problem that is related to the mismatch between accountability contribution revenues and pension expense coverage. In order to put an end to the thesauri problems, which concern only the so-called'responsive municipalities', the local pensions management committee adopted the administrative proposals aimed, on the one hand, at the monthly payment of the response contribution and, on the other hand, at speeding up over several years the collection of the response contribution to ensure that the expenditure of the year corresponds to the income of the same year. Of course, this regularisation will be very gradual, because the municipalities cannot be confronted with an impossibility to meet their expenditure. But it is impossible to do otherwise, since the system is self-supporting. No one, neither the federal government nor the regional governments, will come to put funds into the system. In any case, to the best of my knowledge, no one has volunteered to make new budgetary resources available. Moreover, in my view, it is the responsibility of regional governments, since it is the implementation of policies by local authorities themselves that has led to the present situation. These are political choices that, at one point, have been made in the management of local authorities and that have led to the appointment of less and less... It is a deliberate policy. This is not a coincidence: the local authorities have decided to pay fewer and fewer contributions by saying: "We don't care, we will appoint agents shortly before their pension and they will anyway have the full pension payable by the State." That was the reasoning, it must be admitted! And this will obviously be reviewed. The evolution will therefore be very gradual. For a few years, the local authorities will actually have to pay the previous year's bill and, already, part of the current year's monthly bill. Therefore, there is no increase in the accountability bill, but a perception that will be gradually anticipated according to proposals to be approved by the Management Committee. The management committee, together with the local authorities, will determine how this catch-up will be organised. The Unions of Cities and Municipalities will therefore be involved in the system determined by the Management Committee. Moreover, these proposals do not provide - and this is important to say - for an increase in the basic contribution, whereas if the law were strictly applied, it could be considered that, because the balance is achieved only by the reserve funds, the basic contribution could be increased. Moreover, that was what the law provided for. If we had allowed things to change, the basic contribution could, according to the ORPSS projections, become extremely high and reach percentages completely unpayable by the municipalities. We want to avoid that. The difficulties are therefore temporary and will not have an impact on the payment - I want to be very clear on this point - of the pensions of former statutory staff of the local authorities. Pensions will and will continue to be paid. As for the incentive that will be put in place, this does not change the legal mechanism which provides that the payment of pensions is entirely financed by the basic contributions and the accountability contributions paid by the local authorities. Only the distribution of the cost of response will be adapted by facilitating the provision of supplementary pensions to the growing number of responding municipalities, which have chosen to employ contractual partners. I would like to provide the committee with a table showing the evolution of the local government pension bill for the period 2016-2022, the evolution of the accountability factor and the amount of accountability per year for the same period. By 2022, the accountability factor is expected to be 75 per cent, which is very high. We would increase from $330 million in 2016 to $800 million in 2022. This is the result of law enforcement. When this law was passed, it was hoped that this would encourage the municipalities to appoint more, but it was realized that this had the opposite effect. So there's a problem somewhere. I think we need to pay attention to this phenomenon. However, I would point out that this is not a financing problem, it is essentially a cash flow problem. The Administration's cash flow proposals have no impact on the evolution of the accountability rate. All measures taken pursuant to the Act of 24 October 2011 are the responsibility of the Local Pensions Management Committee, where the Unions of Cities and Municipalities of the three Regions are represented, as well as the trade union representatives, and this is where the consultation took place in the matter before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u23	Minister, thank you for this information. I'm a little divided between two feelings. On the one hand, I'm reassured because you're talking about a temporary difficulty. You say there is no risk of non-payment of pensions. That's all that'd be missing! But, you might as well say it. You also say that there will be no increase in the basic contribution. These elements are reassuring. On the other hand, when you mention the sums of 800 million euros by 2022 and the 75% coefficient, it is obviously much less reassuring. We are in a context of closed envelopes and I understand that the federal government does not want to contribute to this envelope in a logic of greater solidarity that would reduce this difficulty. It is clear that at some point this will have a heavy impact on the municipalities. I think we really need simulations that integrate the mixed pension component that will change the deal on several levels, with a difference in the short, medium and long term. This will change the situation both for the municipalities and for the workers, of course. It would be really interesting and necessary, when we have the draft text on the mixed pension in the analysis here, that we really have all these simulations in order to be able to express ourselves, beyond taking a position in a completely enlightened way. Although this is a little outside the scope of this issue, I think there is also a real thought to be given to the status of the public servant in the local authorities and the provinces. What is the appeal to appointment? What is still the cause of the appointment? You have pointed out this; it contributes to the overall balance of the model. As I have repeatedly denounced, the harmonisation of pensions tends to be a downward harmonisation and thus a reduction in the pension of civil servants. This incentive may therefore no longer exist, whether in mixed or not. All this therefore, it seems to me, really requires a global reflection at the local, regional and federal level, since the three parties are concerned, on the status of the official.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In order to find a solution, you have put forward the principles, the monthly contribution and a catch-up of late collection of invoices, which must be implemented progressively, and these are probably good principles, but this will have to be translated into concrete terms into the municipalities. The municipalities should therefore draw up budgets for 2018 and for the next two years as part of the multi-annual planning imposed on them. When will you be able to provide very concrete simulations to the municipalities? That is a first observation. Secondly, I thought the method of collection is also defined in the law. I therefore believe that you will also need a legislative amendment in order to implement these principles. For the municipalities this will have a double effect. Firstly, they will have to pay higher contributions and, secondly, they will have to pay extra, because of catching up. For many municipalities that will become priceless. You say that it is also a matter of appointment policy, and that is correct, but I would like to draw your attention to the public hospitals, for whom this method of work will be disastrous. Following an appointment with colleague De Block, the regulation provided that public hospitals from the BFM could receive compensation for the cost of the response contribution, provided that the average number of statutory contributions falls. Minister De Block has just introduced that rule with the aim of reducing the number of statutory documents. So there is a discrepancy between what Minister De Block is asking of public hospitals and what you are saying: that the invoice is lower as more statutory documents have been appointed; in which you are right. I think you will have to discuss this with your colleague. The only reassuring thing in your answer is that all pensions will continue to be paid. That is about the only reassuring thing, because for the rest, on the basis of the answer we have received, I am very concerned about the finances of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u25	Mr. Chairman, Minister, you have announced that you want people who have worked longer than the 45 years required to qualify for a statutory pension to receive a higher pension. To take account of these additional years in calculating their pension is certainly a laudable and widely accepted approach. However, at the end of March, the press unveiled two other aspects of your reform project that penalize workers who experience career-related accidents. It seems that there will be more losers than winners. The first aspect concerns those who have started working very young: in the event of a period of inactivity, their pension would no longer be based on the 45 years of earnings, but on the first 45 years of career. Since in principle at the beginning of a career wages are lower, this automatically generates lower pensions. Ultimately, there should be more injured pensioners than rewarded pensioners. Taking long careers into account in 47/45th would cost 6.7 million, but the reference to the first 45 years for those who have experienced a period of inactivity would yield a savings of 119.7 million. The average increase in pensions would be €28.79 per month and the decrease would be €88.61 per month for those who experienced a period of inactivity. For example, 35 per cent of men and 7 per cent of women would receive less pension. The lowest pension holders would suffer the most. In addition, for similar periods (pre-pension and unemployment of more than one year), the reference amount would now be a lower lump sum than the current reference, i.e. the wage received just before the stoppage. This would penalise more than 22,000 people and should lead to an increasing annual savings of €203.50 in 2024. This would represent an average decrease of EUR 26.30 for the persons concerned. Minister, do you confirm these figures published in the press? What about social consultation in these reform projects? What timetable have you set for the implementation of your pension calculation reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u26	Mrs Caprasse, I am currently planning the implementation of two reforms aimed at strengthening the link between the professional career and the amount of the pension. This is, on the one hand, a draft reform to take account of certain periods assimilated in the calculation of the pension, but only of certain periods of unemployment (not all periods of unemployment) and individual pre-pensions (not all pre-pensions). On the other hand, the second reform is the abolition of the limitation to the career unit for actual working days. There has been a lot of noise about this reform. They are not valid because they take into account a project other than the one currently under discussion. I would like to be clear about that. The abolition of the career unit is extremely positive. No one loses it and those who actually work longer gain it. It is simply a question of allowing periods worked beyond 45 years of career to generate pension rights. That's all. There is no other measure that impacts anyone. This is an extremely positive measure. As part of the reform of similar periods (unemployment and pre-pension periods), we will change the calculation of pension rights in the second period of unemployment and in the period of individual pre-pension. This is the continuation of the reform of the Di Rupo government on the revision of periods assimilated into the third period of unemployment. The calculation of duties will be based on the actual minimum duty. I would remind you that the real minimum duty is almost 2,000 euros gross per month. It's not nothing. Talking about an impact on pensions of the lowest wages is, again, a mistake. The lowest wages are less than €2,000. We have to stop telling and relaying false information. I can tell you that for someone whose salary is at the minimum wage level, the minimum real right is well above the minimum wage. To say that low wages will be impacted is radically wrong. In addition, the amount in question does not mean a low salary. We must return to the reality of things! You mentioned an example of a pension amount reduced by 26.30 euros. In order to reduce the amount of a pension by EUR 26.30 as a result of the reform, the last gross monthly wage received before the unemployment period should be EUR 4 000 per month, which is significantly higher than the average or median wage, of more or less EUR 3 000 per month. I therefore do not know who is still defending solidarity in this debate! The defence of solidarity would be to protect wages of more than EUR 4 000? The budgetary impact on the change in the calculation of assimilation for the second period of unemployment and for conventional pre-pensions was initially estimated by the Federal Pension Service (SFP) at EUR 5 million for 2018, EUR 19 million for 2019, EUR 40 million for 2020, and EUR 197 million in 2024. This reform was submitted to the SFP Management Committee. In addition, as a result of the social consultation, several adaptations have been made to the initial draft of abolishing the limitation of career units. The FPS makes the necessary financial estimates to determine the exact impact of these adjustments. This is a cost, not a saving: people who have worked longer will receive a higher amount of pension entitlement. The date of entry into force of the two projects concerned is set for 1 January 2018. In view of the proposed adaptations, the entry into force could be postponed to 1 January 2019. It will be up to the Government to decide on the projects to be submitted to it in the near future, and in particular on the date of entry into force. I will then come to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u27	Thank you, Minister. I'm a little surprised. Apparently, you're challenging what appeared in the press. It's a little too bad as you didn't correct the shot, you didn't react, and you let some so-called wrong elements pass through the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u28	I'm sorry, ma'am. I have reacted but I am not yet in control of what the press is writing!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u29	We will continue to keep an eye on all this because there are blurs that worry us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u30	Mr Minister, one of the retirement pensions in the government agreement is the reform of the sickness pension for civil servants, which looks at the scheme for disability benefits under the sickness and invalidity scheme for workers. The reform would take place in consultation with the Regions, the Communities and local authorities. Before you became a minister, we have already asked questions about the sickness pension system. For some people it certainly has advantages, but there are also anomalies in the system. This is the case, among other things, for persons with a short career in the civil service who become ill. A poignant, certainly not isolated example from the press involved someone who had worked in the private sector for some 30 years and switched to education. There is certainly a demand for private sector workers in technical education who can transfer their know-how and practical knowledge. This gives rise to other discussions, for example, on the maintenance of seniority in education. The person in the example, after a failed surgical procedure, became permanently ill. As the person concerned has only worked for a few years for the government, he receives the sickness pension based on the limited career in the government. That amounts to a very low income. Another example concerns someone who started in technical education and turned out to be allergic to certain products. It was therefore no longer able to continue working and teaching in the sector. It wasn't obvious to find another job either. It fell back on a very low sickness pension, because it is based on a career of only 10 years, with all the problems that this entails. If one is married or has a partner with an income, one falls back on a lower amount, some 40% of the minimum subsistence income. So there really is a problem in the current system of health insurance for civil servants. Hopefully, the reform of the system can provide relief so that people with a short career in civil service or civil servants who have already paid their sickness credit at the start of their career can also receive sickness benefits. What is the status of the reform of the sickness pension? Can you also explain the planned consultation with the Regions, the Communities and the local authorities, all of which employ government staff? Is that gonna happen to this legislature? When? In particular, what will be its content? Then I have another sub-question. Is there a solution to the problem I have just described, pending a new sickness pension scheme, if it is delayed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u31	Mrs Becq, as you mentioned, one of the yards on which I am currently working, together with my fellow Social Affairs officers and officials, aims to reform the pension system for physical incapacity. The system, which exists only for civil servants, can have negative social consequences and can put public sector officials in difficult situations. The retirement scheme does not offer any possibility of professional reintegration when it is final. In addition, the official who has been retired for physical incapacity often has to satisfy himself with a low amount of pension, in particular when the retirement scheme takes place early. The government therefore wants to introduce a system of disability and disability benefits such as those for employees and contractual civil servants in the public sector. This would make it possible to harmonise the various systems and avoid such situations. At present, an official of the State who has previously worked as an employed or selfemployed person may indeed be retired for physical incapacity. He will then only receive a pension calculated on the basis of his career as an official and will have to wait until the required age for the pension amount of the private sector to be made available to him. This situation can hardly continue. Moreover, professional reintegration will have to be facilitated for officials who have been declared unfit and at the same time we will allow them to build up additional pension rights during their period of incapacity. Since the reform concerns all officials, I was mandated, together with the Ministers for Social Affairs and Civil Service, to propose that scenario and to negotiate with the Länder and interested parties. The consultation process with the Länder started a few months ago. The representatives of the Prime Ministers and the Ministers of the Länder who have the powers of the Civil Service and Local Authorities were invited to meet, with my representatives and those of my Social Affairs and Civil Service colleagues suggesting to them the main lines of the draft. To date, only the Flemish Government has indicated that it wants to participate in the negotiation process. In the absence of an opinion from the other governments, the Federal Government decided to submit the dossier to the next meeting of the Consultative Committee on 31 May. A technical working group will be set up with a view to establishing a system of invalidity and invalidity benefits for statutory officials. Since the negotiations have not yet begun, it seems difficult to me to set a precise date for the entry into force of the new system, which falls within the competence of my fellow Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer, but I find little news in it. What is more, it points out that this is a very difficult process. It also started a few months ago, I understand. When I listen to you, I fear that the reform will not really be the subject of this legislature anymore. I hope not. In the meantime, even if it is informal, do you also have discussions with the social partners to see what steps can be taken? Perhaps they can help to help the other governments. That is certainly not to the detriment of the officials, I think we should underline that. If people are ill and are experiencing difficulties, they must be taken care of and reimbursed. They should also receive them if they are ill longer than the credit they would have built up if they were. It will certainly be a solution for sick people with a short career. At the moment, they can't really fall back on anything. In any case, this problem needs to be addressed, even if it is an interim solution to the major reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u33	Mr President, Minister, my question was tabled a while ago and concerns the thorny problem of pension tax reductions. Last week, I received in my mailbox the new tax guide, published by the Professional Institute of Accountants. On the subject of pension tax reduction, it said: "This is the most complicated tax system of personal tax." Indeed, this matter is of great complexity. Let us remember the principles. There is a basic tax reduction of 2,024 euros. This basic tax reduction is limited when the household's income is composed of both replacement and occupational income. There is a second limitation when the total taxable income - for example, when real estate income is included - exceeds a certain amount. To this, we must add a reduction, this time complementary, when the pension does not exceed 15 518 euros. It is the global and general framework. Despite this – you remember, minister – some perverse effects have appeared. For example, some pensioners saw their pensions increase, for example by applying the welfare envelope, resulting in an additional tax that partially or totally absorbed the pension supplement allocated. A solution had been found, through the introduction of a bill that had received broad agreement. It introduced the pre-emptive consideration of the communal addition, which made it possible to resolve a number of situations, but apparently not sufficiently. So we asked you to find a solution. In fact, we had exchanged a little bit about it. You told me that the problem was being dealt with, but that the solution was complex to find. However, I was able to read in the press that, obviously, the working group you had jointly set up with the Minister of Finance had led to a solution. This is basically the reason for the updating of the question that I tabled a few weeks ago: where are we? What solution have you adopted or are you going to submit to the government? As you can imagine, there is some urgency. Incidental question: Will the rectification take place retroactively for pensioners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u34	Mr Minister, my question is on the same subject, which we have already debated several times in plenary. The problem is well known. For those who benefit from a gross pension amount between EUR 15 570 and EUR 16 700 on an annual basis, an increase in the gross pension may result in a lower net pension. This has to do with both the duty-free sum and the degressivity of the additional deduction for replacement income. You said at the time that a working group had been set up in the government to work out a solution. We now hear that the Minister of Finance would have found a solution, but it would not enter into force until the 2018 attack year. The proposal comes after a law which was unanimously adopted by the Chamber and which everyone thought would bring the solution, but that was not the case. This mistake must be collectively attributed to us and not to the Minister alone. First of all, can you confirm that there is a solution in the process? Secondly, what exactly does this solution entail? Thirdly, it is reported that some would be satisfied if an increase in the gross pension would no longer lead to a reduction in the net pension. Honestly, I think it would be better if the gross pension increased, so would the net pension. I think that's the most important thing. Can a solution be expected in this respect? More gross, so also more net, so less taxes, that's the essence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm to you that the discussions between the experts of my firm and those of the Finance Office led to a second solution before, I hope, arriving at a third solution to the pension tax trap. The Council of Ministers of 18 May approved, at first reading, the provisions which provide for this solution. From now on, any increase in gross pensions will no longer result in a decrease in the net pension. This is a first step. The proposed solution will apply to the 2018 tax year, therefore for 2017 revenues. The solution is to determine the additional tax deduction for taxpayers who only benefit from pensions or replacement income or who only benefit from statutory insurance benefits, by calculating the positive difference between, on the one hand, the amount of the taxes remaining after the application of the ordinary reduction for pensions and replacement pension income and, on the other hand, 90% of the difference between net income and reference income, which amounts to EUR 15 568,12. It's about the 2017 attack year. For this purpose, Article 154, §3, 1°, of the Income Tax Code 1992 was amended. This is the solution that is now being proposed in the law of various provisions. As some of you have said, I think that, indeed, we need to go further because the matter is very complex and simplification would be desirable in the long run. There is a need to go further in the reform of pension taxation. Any increase in the gross pension must indeed result in an increase in the net pension. In addition, I think that it should be avoided to penalise the pensioner who decides to pursue part of a professional activity. The proposed solution is therefore, in my view, only an interim solution. The work of the experts in my office and those in the office of the Minister of Finance is continuing, in order to develop a more comprehensive solution for the tax reduction for pensions and replacement income under Budget 2018. With regard to the citizen's information on the increase in the pension following the acquisition of the years of study, since the problem was related, as I was engaged in it in the Social Affairs Committee, I therefore asked my administration about the possibility of developing in mypension.be a simulation tool. My administration indicated that it was able to develop this tool for February 2018. She indicated that this tool will also allow the citizen to learn about the amount of the increase – which is significant – in net pension. It is therefore not only a simulation of the gross amount but also of the net amounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u36	Mr President, as you can imagine, the technical solution that has just been described is as complex as the regime it operates. I will therefore take the time to read that solution. In any case, texts will be tabled. We will put them to the test of concrete cases. I imagine that this will come back to the Finance Committee a priori, since we are dealing with the Income Tax Code. For the rest, Minister, I take note of your wish to reform pension taxation. The system is complex, but it works with some logic, including the consideration of the contributory capacity of pensions. You point out the case of the pensioner, who pursues a professional activity. I understand the intention of the legislator to encourage the phenomenon. You will no doubt adopt a nuanced view on this issue. Fiscal consequences need to be drawn. I expected you to make such proposals. However, pensioners return from other forms of income than their pension, which is obviously rarer. Contributing capacity must also guide the determination of the tax reduction regime. We will probably have an opportunity to talk about it again. Chairperson: Jan Spooren.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u37	Minister, I come back to the subject of penitibility, which we have dealt with on several occasions. The unions submitted a proposal to the National Pensions Committee, which elicited a reaction from employers' representatives. This proposal seems interesting to me because of its cross-cutting approach, based on hard work. It provides for several categories and criteria for identifying tasks that cause health effects. In this regard, I believe that the Government's terms of reference are well respected. One aspect is important to you. I'm talking about mixed careers. Minister, I come to my three questions. Is the proposal of the workers' representatives a suggestion that the government could support, in order to move forward on the issue of penitibility? The workers' representatives stated that the envelopes you had provided for penitibility would not be sufficient. Do you intend to adjust the means necessary to identify and recognize difficult tasks? Following the various reflections, the elaboration of a cadastre appears necessary. It is also necessary to harmonise the collection of information and the recording of data on the effects of difficult tasks on health. Are additional resources provided by the government for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u38	Mr Daerden, I cannot answer you about the list of criteria recently presented by the unions during the work of the National Pension Committee. I would remind you of Rule 5 of the Committee's Rules of Procedure: "Notwithstanding the final opinions and reports of the Committee, the documents relating to the Committee's work are not public". I therefore regret the exits that have been made on this subject in the media because they do not, it seems to me, contribute to ensuring the serenity of the debates. So I won't comment. But I confess my astonishment. I have read the proposed criteria. Some are curious. So, for example, if you work with colleagues, you have the right to hardness, but if you work alone, you also have the right to hardness. Sometimes it's a little crazy. But of course we will refine all this and work within the framework of the National Pensions Committee. The work is in progress. As far as the private sector is concerned, it is mainly the social partners (employers and trade unions) who have to work. With regard to the public sector, the Government and public sector trade unions are currently working on this issue. Mr Daerden, the budget envelopes are important. I don't know if you're doing well, but it's about $24 million in 2019 and $38 million in 2020 for the private sector. I would point out that at present there is no account being taken of the penitibility of self-employed persons' pension schemes. It is therefore a new effort that is being made by the government. In some countries where penitibility is being introduced, new taxes are being created, and new contributions are being made to do so. Here, it's not about that. These are sums that are made available for penitibility. It's federal government funding. If you take the situation in France, there is a tax on businesses to finance penitibility. That's not the case here. The social partners agreed that work on the determination and implementation of the criteria should respect the budgetary margins set by the government. I reminded the social partners of this requirement. As far as your last question is concerned, I should like to inform you that no budget has yet been established for the collection and recording of data relating to the tenability of functions. Indeed, the way in which this collection and recording will be carried out has not yet been decided. The pension administration tells me that starting with the DmfA and the current registration of a whole series of benefits, this should not be a major problem. This data collection is very important. In France, for example, employers' organisations and, above all, SMEs do not agree at all on the complexity of recording penitentiality for enterprises. We need to be careful about that. We must adopt a simple system, which is not an administrative overload. This has already been made clear to the National Pensions Committee in the first phase on penitentiality, for which I have said that the aim is also to avoid administrative and financial overload in the collection of data by enterprises, in particular by SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u39	Minister, thank you. Some elements of reaction. First of all, I hear you don't want to reveal secrets, but you go beyond the precise information you don't want to give. A feeling is already an orientation. When I hear the irony with which you quote an anecdotal example, I have concerns about the proposal put on the table by the workers' representatives. Second element: the envelope. You confirm what you have already said before, namely that the figures advanced will not be revised upwards, but will remain those which have been announced. This will result in either a powdering and therefore a very low impact of penitibility - if many difficult jobs are recognised - or a very selective element concerning penitibility. I also heard the federal government's notion of gift and gesture. It is still the recycling of the preferential tantèmes that will finance this. Is that not true?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u40	The recycling of the Preferential Tanths will fund the public sector, not the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u41	Will there not be a slip from one envelope to another?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u42	No. These are two separate envelopes. There are even three, because there is one for the independents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u43	We will go back to the exact figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u44	The recycling of the tantèmes concerns the public sector's tenibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u45	Will this money be fully reinjected into the penitibility of the public service?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u46	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u47	Therefore, the gain achieved by the removal of the preferential tantèmes will be fully reinjected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u48	By 2060.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u49	The budget is global!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u50	Wait! The budget is supplemented by 14 billion in relation to penitibility, by 2060!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u51	What about the gains on the tantieths?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u52	They're of the same order. But year after year, fluctuations are necessarily different! It is not those who have the highest tantieths that will necessarily be the ones who will go to the pension with penitibility in the same year. So it's a curve that's not one: it's a trend.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u53	We'll go back to the numbers to see if there's any slippage. Last point to stress the importance of harmonisation – I understand that nothing is yet planned and that it is premature to speak in terms of the budget envelope – it seems to me essential that the gathering of information be good. My concern is about the past and the information needed to implement the new criteria of penitibility. The search for this information, in my opinion, will require special attention to ensure that there is no discrimination against those who have had this task in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u54	The discussion will come back to the questions put together under item 15. For some reason, these questions are not dealt with together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u55	Mr President, Minister, this issue is related to the 2016 report of the Ombudsman for Pensions. It highlighted some discrimination between self-employed and wage-earners, on the one hand, and workers who have a mixed self-employed and wage-earner career, on the other, when they decide to pursue a career beyond their pension. In some cases, it is valued, and in others, it is not. Examples are clearly included in this report. A pensioner accounting for a career of 43 years as an independent who takes up an activity of 2 years as an employee will be entitled to a pension of 45/45ths for this scheme, whereas with a career of 42 years as an independent and a year as an employee, the pensioner would not be entitled to it. There are a few similar examples. Minister, can you confirm this discrimination? What solutions do you have in mind to solve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u56	Minister, I will not repeat the question. I had exactly the same question, which arose from the Ombudsman's report. The introduction is the same and my questions are the same. Do you agree with the Ombudsman's analysis that this is discrimination? Is this not contrary to the harmonisation of pension systems between employees and the self-employed in this case, which we are aiming to achieve? Will you take measures to deal with the problem in concrete terms? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u57	Mr President, a retired self-employed person can indeed build up pension rights as an employed person, but a retired worker cannot build up pension rights as a self-employed person. This is the current situation. And the reason why a retired employee cannot form pension rights as an independent person is not in the pension legislation but is the consequence of the contribution scheme provided for by the legislation of the self-employed. In fact, a pensioner pays a lower contribution for his self-employed activity. That being said, I agree with that, a reflection must be started and will take place with my colleague Minister Borsus. We will discuss the issue of harmonization. The question of harmonization between the rights system that may or may not be created after retirement will be discussed. The future partial pension project does not really provide a solution to this. This is really a problem of harmonising regimes. This issue needs to be resolved with both administrations: the Federal Pension Service and INASTI.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers and confirmation. Do you know when this will begin and end?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u59	It'll start soon. On this occasion, we will try to find a solution that will allow more harmonization. It will also be necessary to see whether this problem could be solved at the same time as the question of point pensions, since, in this context, more harmonisation will also be sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u60	It is indeed important, Minister, for two reasons, that a solution be found quickly. Firstly, there is the general policy that people should be allowed to earn after their retirement. This is a general policy line and it must also be implemented and implemented in these cases. Secondly, it has already been mentioned that discrimination must be eliminated and that we must achieve much-needed harmonisation of pension systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u61	Minister, many of our fellow citizens – according to your figures, almost 200,000 – have started working very young, sometimes at the age of 15, under difficult conditions. They can therefore pursue a long career, but they are too young to retire. You indicated that 197,130 Belgians were too young to retire, despite a career of more than forty years. This problem will worsen with the gradual raising of the retirement age to 67 years. In this regard, Minister, are you considering solutions to address this situation? You who defend the value of work, what are you going to propose so that these 200,000 workers benefit from decent incomes up to the legal pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u62	Mr Daerden, obviously it is not a question of getting people to work, who start working very early, until they are 67 years old. I recall the age and career conditions that give access to the anticipated pension for the 2019 final plan: those who have 42 years of career can take their pension at 63, those who have 43 years of career can take it at 61, those who have 44 years of career can take it at 60. It is not even mandatory to work until a full career of 45 years. The person who started at the age of 16 can take up his pension from the age of 60. The one who started at the age of 15 will have to take it at the age of 60 too, but he will have 45 years of career. "Long career" exceptions have been provided for in the law. The issue of earnings in a long career is not part of pension legislation, it concerns the Minister of Employment more than the Minister of Pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u63	Minister, I hear your answer very well and, as you are used to, you separate the matters. I have often said that the subject of pensions is cross-cutting: it covers pension policy but also employment, taxation and the fight against insecurity. This subject must be considered in this transversality!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u64	Mr President, Mr Minister, I will be relatively brief because we have already had the opportunity to discuss the substance of the matter in the debate in committee on the valorisation of diplomas. On that occasion, I was able to denounce all the measures taken against public servants in the area of pensions. In view of the procedure initiated by COCOF, what is the continuation of the operations? What's the timing? How do you envisage things, given the impact that exists for teachers? Indeed, there is an impact because you said that most of them would not be affected. In other words, some will. If you have any encrypted items that you haven't given yet, know that I will listen carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u65	Mr Daerden, in fact, there is no reform of the years of study which only concerns teachers' pensions. Indeed, it is sometimes felt that only the latter are involved. No. The draft law on the harmonization of the inclusion of periods of study in the calculation of pensions concerns all workers irrespective of their pension scheme. I can tell you that some salaried workers would have liked to buy back their years of study from 1 June. But this is not possible because of obstruction. In doing so, they will not be able to do so until they take their pension. So for them, it'll be too late. Thank you, COCOF! It is not this reform that is worrying teachers, I think. Rather, it is all false information that is spread around this reform. It is obviously difficult to run behind the arsonists, but this is what we will continue to do by explaining to teachers that the reform relating to the redemption of the years of study is a reform which concerns everyone and which affects less – this is the great paradox – teachers than many other categories of people in the public sector since they have preferential tantamounts that allow them to have a full pension after 41 years and 3 months. So they don't need to make this buy-back if they started their profession after graduation. On the other hand, if they started at the age of 30, everyone can understand. You can't claim a full career if you start at 35. It's obvious. In this case, if someone started at the age of 21, or even at the age of 23, for example, he has a full career after 41 years and 3 months. The Federal Office of the Plan clearly confirms this analysis in its April 2017 report on the impact of the reform. Obviously, it will be different for the teacher who started at the age of 30 or 35. Is that abnormal? I don't think so. On the other hand, most teachers will not need to buy back their years of study. Only teachers who have started their careers late could be required to regularize a whole part of their careers. Not only do teachers who started early, thanks to their preferential scheme, do not need to buy back their years of study, but teachers who started late will be able to buy back their years of study in excellent conditions during a transitional period and with a percentage reduction, a relatively moderate amount, tax deductible in order to be able to have a longer career. I cannot give you any figures on the teachers who would find themselves in this situation, since the usefulness of regularisation can only be assessed at the time of departure from the pension, depending on the career provided and the gratuity that remains. I repeat: the vast majority of teachers today have all made part of their careers. They therefore retain their acquired rights. They don't need to buy back their years of study. In this respect, and to date, the Wallonia-Brussels Community has given us – it sometimes gives us fine lessons – only 25% of the career data of its teachers. It is in breach of the law, which does not seem to disturb her too much, whereas, as far as the data of teachers in the Flemish Community is concerned, we have all the data. Only 25% of French-speaking teachers can count on the transmission of their career data by the Wallonia-Brussels Community! This is a real problem for the calculation of date P, the date of departure from the pension. As you cannot demonstrate that the reform relating to the purchase of years of study will be detrimental to teachers, you invoke the fact that teachers may not benefit from a recognition of penitibility and that they would therefore lose the advantage of their preferences. I found this extraordinary reasoning because this argument is used in motions of conflict of interest! This means that the Minister of Francophone Education herself considers that teachers have no right to penitibility! That's what I'm deducing from his reasoning. It seems strange to me that a Minister of Education should say that in a blank way, when no decision has been taken on this matter. It seems to me irresponsible to block the federal government's action by citing fears of future reforms, which are only at the stage of consultation in the National Pensions Committee and which are not the subject of any debate in the Federal Parliament since the texts on penitibility remain to be drawn up. In fact, there is no indication that the new tantème regime, linked to penitibility and application as early as 2019, will be less advantageous for teachers, unless they consider, a priori, as you do, that they cannot benefit from a recognition of penitibility. I respect social consultation, so I will wait for the results of the discussions at the CNP, in which the federated entities participate, before drafting texts implementing the recognition of penitibility in the public sector. The annual performance of the removal of the current tantèmes, acting only when the new tantèmes related to penitibility have come into force, varies from year to year. The cumulative economy accounts for almost EUR 14 billion by 2060. It will be reinvested in the implementation of the tantamounts of penitibility in the public sector. It is therefore wrong to claim that the budget to integrate penitibility into pension rights would be insufficient. The follow-up to the conflict of interest will be as provided by law. Consultation should be initiated between the House of Representatives and the Assembly of the French Community Commission. If the procedure has not been completed within the 60-day time limit, the House will bring the dispute before the Senate, which will give a reasoned opinion to the Conciliation Committee. Although he is absent, I would like to answer Mr Gilkinet's more specific questions, which had been put in the text of his written question, on the impact assessment and the freeze on the reform of the purchase of years of study, pending agreement on penitibility. Although the impact assessment was not required by the law of 15 December 2013, it was still carried out and handed over at the commission on 9 May 2013. I therefore do not see the usefulness of a new study. In addition, there is no reason to freeze the reform on the purchase of years of study awaiting the completion of the penitential dossier. The reforms are distinct. The reform on the purchase of years of study does not only concern teachers, but everyone: many employees await the entry into force of this reform in order to regularise their years of study.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u66	I have not learned much from the questions asked. The central element is the impact of the change in the system of preferential tantèmes, where there remains an important unknown. I am convinced of the hard work and the need to maintain recognition. We will see what will emerge from the consultation, and what you will then do with it. I understand that teachers are concerned about the risk of changes in their diet. The consequence might be that they are no longer in the situation where the redemption of years of study is, for the most part, to repeat the expression, useless. This could become a necessity for most. I therefore understand their concern. I understand that you are not prepared to move your draft text forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u67	I would like to thank the Minister for his willingness to remain present until all the questions on the agenda have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u68	Mr President, Minister, I would like to put this question to you in the light of my written question No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. My question was to add the 11 % bet complement for irregular performance of military personnel to the list of betting complements. To this end, the Council of Ministers would adopt a royal decision. You also announced this in your reply to my written question. This would eliminate injustice in the calculation of pensions for military workers. Until 2011 that complement was in the bet and was therefore included in the pension calculation, but after 2011 that changed. Minister, what is the state of play in this dossier? Have you had that proposal discussed in the Council of Ministers? If not, to what do we owe the delay? The most important question is when everything will be okay administratively so that the 11 % bet complement will actually count for the pension. Will a solution be found quickly for this problem? This is an important issue for those concerned, and I would urge them to do so quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u69	Mr President, in reply to the questions, I would like to inform the honourable Member that the draft royal decree concerning the eligibility for the pension calculation of the betting allowance for irregular benefits granted to some members of the civilian staff of the Defence Department and to some of the military members of paramedical staff is still in preparation in my administration. Its budgetary impact has yet to be calculated by the Federal Pension Service. Only then will it be possible to submit the draft to the Council of Ministers, following the advice of the Finance Inspectorate and the agreement of the Minister for the Budget. Following the opinion of the Council of State and the trade-union negotiations to be held for this draft both within the Joint Committee for all administrations and within the negotiating committee of the military personnel of the armed forces, the draft will be submitted to the Head of State for signature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play. I am pleased that it is still your intention to come forward with a KB so that that injustice can be eliminated. It is also strange because the Bet Complement was still taken into account until 2011, but the electronic file was introduced in 2011 and that apparently changed. I think we should try to put that right again. For the soldiers involved, for the members of the civilian staff, for all those with a paramedical mission, that is an important issue. It is only common sense, only logical to put this right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u71	Minister, the trade unions have recently put proposals on the table in the National Pension Committee in the debate on the heavy professions. Their proposal extends the debate to occupational risk exposure, preventive measures and workable work. As mentioned above, they also talk about creating a kind of land register in which one defines the heaviness of a job in a more targeted and sometimes even individual way. Our group believes that this is a positive development because for far too long it has been a bit scary about this matter. The concept of a heavy occupation was linked only to early benefits. There was not enough focus on prevention and workable work as solutions. The approach the trade unions are now proposing actually allows for tackling the problem of heavy-duty professions through support, adapted work and moving on to another job. In addition, this more targeted approach would also allow the rather collective concept of heavy occupation to be turned into heavy tasks or heavy functions. I therefore have a few questions for you. Firstly, are you in favour, as a competent minister, of an approach that solves the problem of heavy professions through tailor-made work rather than through early benefits? Do you think that this approach will be necessary in order not to undermine the government's efforts to keep people longer in work and thereby make the pension system unaffordable in the long term? Secondly, do you think it is possible to use part of the financial envelope provided by the government for the heavy-duty professions for measures to support that workable work for a number of older workers in the heavy-duty professions and to enable them to spend in full rather than the envelope to pay early benefits and/or higher pensions? Thirdly, are you prepared to individualise the discussion on heavy-duty professions more individually to certain functions and thus to redirect the concept of heavy-duty occupation to heavy-duty tasks and feasible tasks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u72	Mr Minister, the debate on the heavy professions and heavy jobs has two dimensions. The first dimension is who will be covered by this categorization. We're in the middle of a discussion on that. That's not a simple assignment. Mr Spooren has just made a specific comment on this. The second dimension of the debate is the question of, once it has been determined who will be covered by which posts, what compensation will be given to workers in a heavy occupation or a heavy job. Just about that second dimension is my question. In response to one of my previous written questions, you confirmed once again that the envelope for the heavy functions will total EUR 39 million in 2019. You have also clarified the scenario and the calculations underlying the amount of EUR 39 million. I have two questions on the subject. First of all, you say that anyone who does 20 years of incriminating work could retire one year earlier. That cannot be enough for heavy-duty professions such as construction workers, nurses and so on, so for people who have been in a heavy occupation for many years and then could retire one year earlier after 20 years? There are a great many questions about this measure. Secondly, how can the government justify that only career years in a heavy post after 2018 will be taken into account? That is also what you indicated. The years worked will only start to count as career years after 2018. People who have been in a difficult position for years are therefore the victims. The retirement age for them will shift already. The time tables are there and are in operation. The retirement age is therefore already shifting by a decision. So that's what's going on. In conclusion, is the government prepared to review its working methods and calculations on the basis of the two comments I have just made?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, taking account of the heavy professions must also be done in the context of the preventive approach linked, for example, to a different management of work organisation. This is also the position officially expressed by the National Pension Committee in its report on the problem of the heavy professions, which was published last September. It is, however, an approach whose implementation falls within the competence of the Minister for Labour. The budgetary envelopes laid down to take account of the recognition of the gravity of pension rights professions cannot be used to finance projects falling within another competence. I would like the social dialogue in the file on the heavy professions to continue in the best possible way. So I will not comment on the possible ideas that could be proposed in this context. I cannot therefore answer Mr De Vriendt's question as to whether early retirement is sufficient for 20 hard career years as a nurse or construction worker. The same applies if he asks me about the possible retroactivity of taking into account the gravity of pension rights professions. These are, of course, important questions, but it seems to me desirable to allow the social partners to consult in advance. With regard to Mr Spooren's question, whether I am prepared to take into account an approach linked to the functions in the discussions on the heavy professions, I can answer him that the National Pension Committee has already expressed its views on this matter. Indeed, the report states that "The traditional approach to a list of heavy-duty occupations is no longer used, but rather criteria for heavy-duty work, where functions are assessed according to their pensibility, which is more in line with reality on the ground." As regards his question concerning the revision of early retirement schemes in the public sector, it was agreed in April 2016 that it would take place by adapting the Staff Regulations of the officials concerned in the framework of an initiative of the Minister of Civil Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u74	Indeed, Minister, concessions can be made in three ways. A person with a heavy occupation can be granted a higher pension, a person with a heavy occupation can be given early retirement, but one can also provide support to keep the end of the career feasible through job mobility and workable work. We need to focus more on this and I regret that budgets that could be saved on the tantiemes cannot be used to finance measures in this context. I think that people in the workplace have very little ear for the argument that this falls under another minister and another authority and that this money cannot therefore be used for this purpose. Perhaps that makes sense from an administrative point of view, but not from the point of view of the people. We will therefore certainly call on the Minister for Labour to consider whether there can be a budget for supporting workable work for people in the autumn of their careers. I am glad that you agree, together with others, that we need to look more closely at reality, at functions and tasks that need to be workable, rather than simply qualifying any profession as heavy or non-heavy. The envelope is limited and will always be too limited, no matter how large we make it. So, the more we can focus on and match reality in the workplace, the better and more efficient we can spend the limited envelope. It does not help if almost all professions are considered to be heavy, but it does help to distinguish between those who perform even heavier tasks within a professional category than others.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u75	In my oral question, Minister, I went further into the elements you presented in reply to my written question No. 197. I am pleased that you will no longer confirm them, but will wait for the social dialogue. That's a wise decision. Indeed, the scenarios given by the government were particularly worrying. For 20 years of incriminating work could be retired one year earlier, which would mean, for example, that someone who has worked as a nurse for 20 years would no longer retire at 67 years over time, but at 66 years We all know that this is and remains nonsense. You know that our proposal is to work much more with career years instead of retirement ages. The fact that the hard career years are only taken into account from 2018 is completely incomprehensible and absurd, and an insult to those who have been working in a heavy occupation for 20 years, but can only retire in 10 to 15 years. That would mean that those 20 years before 2018 simply no longer count, nor the compensation to which they are entitled. It is logical that people with a heavy occupation cannot continue to work for up to 67 years, as, according to the government, people with other functions should. Finally, I would like to remind you of the debate we have had following the increase in retirement age. The opposition, not with Ecolo/Green in the last instance, has always said that we needed a regulation for the people in the heavy professions before raising the retirement age. You have always said that this would be put right, that exceptions would be provided for and that, of course, this would be taken into account. The scenario set out in response to my written question does not take this into account at all. It is important that this be corrected and that we wait for the social dialogue first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u76	Mr President, Minister, in the 2017-2018 interprofessional agreement, the social partners unanimously put forward a proposal to allocate the welfare envelope. They proposed, among other things, to increase, as of 1 September 2017, minimum pensions with a full career of 1% and minimum pensions with an incomplete career of 1.7%, with the aim of achieving a single basic amount again. The Prime Minister spoke in the House's gallery to say that he was committed to the full implementation of the interprofessional agreement. A few days ago, the Council of Ministers approved several texts implementing the interprofessional agreement, including a text on minimum pensions. According to my information, this text does not correctly implement the agreement of the social partners, because the distinction between minimum pensions for a full career and for an incomplete career is expressly retained. Also on the basis of the information I have been able to gather, there would be a negative opinion from the Management Committee and a letter from the Group of Ten addressed to the Prime Minister and to you, who asks you to respect the terms of the IPA. Minister, are you confirming the unanimous negative opinion of the Management Committee? Do you confirm that the Group of Ten has sent a letter to the government? Will you respond to the unanimous request of the social partners to amend your text? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u77	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Daerden, I confirm that the members of the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service (FPS) have considered that the texts submitted to them do not properly implement the agreement, in that they do not remove any distinction between minimum pensions for incomplete and complete careers. I also confirm that I have received a letter from the Group of Ten to that effect. However, I do not agree with the views of either the members of the SFP Management Committee or the Group of Ten. The draft texts correctly reflect the interprofessional agreement. The agreement provides that with effect from 1 September 2017, minimum pensions for incomplete careers shall be increased by 1.7% and those for full careers by 1%. That is the text of the agreement. These increases are reflected in the text. These increases will indeed take place. I have also noted, with some disappointment, the willingness of the social partners to benefit rather from the minimum pensions for an incomplete career than from the minimum pensions for a full career. On the contrary, I would rather have rewarded pensioners who, despite a full career, can only claim a minimum pension. Many here find this normal. I don't think it's normal for anyone who's been working his whole life to be entitled to a minimum pension. Many people are still in this situation. Indeed, as you know, it is my heart to strengthen the link between work benefits and the amount of the pension. As for their request for the reinstatement of a single basic amount for the calculation of minimum pensions for an incomplete or complete career, this is not deduced from the interprofessional agreement, which does not specify anything in this respect, nor from Opinion 2023 of the National Labour Council and the Central Council of the Economy, which merely finds that, following these differentiated increases for minimum pensions in the case of incomplete career and in the case of full career, in fact, the basic amount for the calculation of minimum pensions becomes, from 1 September 2017, the same as that of an incomplete or complete career. If this passage of the opinion were to aim at the abolition of the very principle of a distinction between a minimum pension for incomplete and complete careers, the social partners' opinion would then go beyond the role specified by the Act of 23 December 2005 on the Intergenerational Solidarity Pact. As a reminder, it is up to the social partners to decide on the allocation of a financial envelope for adaptation to the general development of the welfare of all or certain social security benefits. The opinion would also refer to provisions which were decided democratically just a year ago. This is the vote in the Chamber of the Law of 6 July 2016 granting a premium to certain beneficiaries of a minimum pension and increasing certain minimum pensions in the schemes of employed and self-employed persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u78	Mr Minister, first of all, I thank you for confirming the information on the notice and the mail. I see once again that, when you do not follow your approach, you consider yourself misunderstood. However, in this case, people of very different quality and backgrounds are unanimous and unanimous beside the plaque, if I understand you well! I must regret your persistence and your refusal to respect the agreement reached between the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u79	That is incorrect: I respect it perfectly!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u80	Minister, this is a very short question. You announced that the minimum pension for an isolated person would be €1,212.45 per month on 1 September 2017. One interlocutor asked me that it would not be that amount, but rather €1,200.44. I promised him I'd ask you the question to determine what the right number was.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u81	Mr Daerden, I confirm that the minimum pension for a full career will be 1,212.45 euros on 1 September 2017. The sum of €1,200 will be due only to the indexation scheduled for 1 June. On 1 September, with the application of the welfare envelope we have just mentioned, this amount will increase to €1,212.45.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u82	Mr President, will there not be an impact of the discount? My interlocutor mentioned a deduction of 12 euros for the discount and that there was the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u83	The annual minimum pension for a full career is below the threshold of €15,518. If we multiply 1,212 by 12, we arrive below 15,518. A pensioner who receives only a minimum pension will not pay taxes – unless he or she has other income – and will therefore be reimbursed for the prepayment if he or she has.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u84	Minister, thank you for these points of answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u85	Minister, a large part of the population is unaware of the existence of the income guarantee for older people (IGO) and its modalities. It is for this reason that an automatic examination is now being carried out of its own motion in the case of employees and self-employed persons who reach the age of 65. However, there are people who have already been 65 years before the automatic approach was introduced and who have never applied for it out of ignorance. In addition, a person's financial situation may also change after retirement, so that he or she could qualify for an IGO. That is why it seems important to me that, in addition to the ex-officio approach and evaluation at 65 years, there should be more awareness and information about the IGO. Do you think it would be useful to launch an information campaign on the IGO? Do you have any plans in this regard? The automatic approach exists for employees and self-employed persons but not for civil servants. It may be assumed that they have a higher pension, but in practice this is not always the case. There are many cases where people have only been civil servants for a few years and do not have a high pension. Are you planning steps to eliminate this discrimination to the detriment of civil servants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u86	I understand your concern about the awareness of the income guarantee for older people or IGO. I assure you that the OCMW's, social services and trade union organisations play their social role for their customers and members as regards the right to an IGO in respect of their customers and members. Those specific actors were already the subject of a awareness campaign on the IGO organised by the Federal Pension Service (FDP) in 2011. After all, they are best placed to inform their customers and members about the right to an IGO. Therefore, I do not think that a general information campaign would make much sense. The automatic allocation of the IGA to persons over the age of 65 is not possible for practical reasons. After all, it would imply a permanent monitoring of all the livelihoods of all the elderly. Moreover, it is not possible for the FPD to start an automatic investigation for persons who are unable to attend a professional career due to the strict privacy regime, which allows the FDP to only keep records of persons who have completed a professional career. Indeed, for an official, an automatic IGO investigation is not initiated when it reaches the statutory retirement age. I have committed myself to extending the automatic investigation to retired officials. Since the merger, the merging of services and the combination of databases have been among the FPD's priorities. However, I will ask the FPD to analyse the possibility of carrying out an automatic IGO investigation for officials on a technical level. If the outcome turns out to be positive, I will submit a draft to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u87	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I am very pleased that you not only agree with my analysis, but that you have obviously already taken concrete steps to address the problem. Of course, I also fully agree with you that there can be no permanent monitoring after 65 years, which is virtually simply not feasible. I am very much in favour of rights and obligations in social security. However, if a citizen is entitled to something, the government must do everything in its power to ensure that that right can be incorporated. Sometimes this can be done by automating the rights, but it is often not possible. In some cases, such as here, a proactive approach can be followed, whereby action is taken on its own initiative. At least awareness should be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u88	Minister, I asked you a question about this on 20 April 2016, more than a year ago. I will not repeat the question. A fictitious interest rate shall be calculated on the basis of an interest rate of 4,5 %. That interest foot is no longer topical today. On my previous question, you replied that you agreed with my observation and that you would revise the modalities. You added that there was an analysis in preparation. My questions are as follows. Has this analysis been completed and, if so, what is its outcome? Will you review the calculation of interest rates and hence the solidarity contribution so that a more realistic interest rate can be taken into account and the solidarity contribution reduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u89	Mr President, as far as the conversion of capital into fictitious interest rates is concerned, I have not changed my mind in relation to my answer to Question No 1, which I have just referred to. 9740. I still believe that the technical interest rate of 4.75% taken into account for transposition no longer corresponds to the reality of the interest rates currently applicable. However, since my reply, and as I indicated in my general policy paper of 27 October 2016, the government has decided to gradually reduce the solidarity contribution from 1 January 2019 to achieve a reduction of 25%. I can therefore no longer raise the question of a possible adjustment of the technical interest rate without considering it globally with the gradual reduction to 25%, decided by the government. The analysis required has thus been given a different dimension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u90	Mr Minister, you are saying that we are going to reduce the solidarity contribution and, with the budgetary means used, we will no longer change the pension rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u91	The possible adjustment of this rate must be part of the discussion on how the budget envelope will be used to review the solidarity contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u92	You mean that the reduction in the solidarity contribution could be achieved by lowering this rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u93	The discussion must take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u94	Minister, there is a form of agreement within the government to change the second assimilation period. However, as I have already had the opportunity to explain, it will not be enough for an unemployed person to have a pension less than that of an independent person. I have made an alternative proposal so that the famous minimum fee, which amounts to 1 950 euros gross per month, is degressive until it reaches 1 362 euros assimilated. I also propose that unemployment benefit should not be limited in time, but that it should be limited in time after ten years. With these two measures, we could avoid situations such as those experienced by Viriginia and Caroline, these well-known Walloons. Minister, do you agree that it is not fair for an unemployed person to build up more pension than someone who works? What a question, Mr. Van Quickenborne! Secondly, what do you think of the proposal I put on the table? Can you and will you support that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u95	As I have already done during the plenary session to which you refer, I confirm my will to strengthen the link between the work actually done and the amount of pension. So I fully agree with you when you say that our pension system needs to be rewarded better. This is a question of fairness with regard to workers who have contributed to the financing of our pension system through social contributions that have been deducted from their wages. I am, of course, in favour of eliminating the injustices in our pension system. But this one is one. We will work to remove the limitation to career unity, with a focus on effective work. It's a first thing. Unemployment or similar periods will not be taken into account to increase pension rights after 45 years of employment. This is already a step in the right direction. In addition, we will change the account taken of the equivalent periods of unemployment and of conventional individual pre-pension in the second period for unemployment and will ensure that assimilation is taken into account on the basis of the minimum real right which is actually 1 970 euros gross per month. We can always go further, but I think we have to be reasonable. We're from situation X. We're going to a Y situation. I think that today we will resume the reform of the previous government that concerned the third period. Simply, it will be transposed in the second period. I do not know who was in charge of pensions at the time when he agreed that the third period of unemployment should be based on the real minimum right. I guess he had reasons to do it like that. So we will also do so for the second period. But I think that the real debate is that of harmonisation. The real debate is the one that we are going to open with the point pension, so that the situation of people who work all their lives can never be inferior to the situation of people who have not worked so long. That is the real debate. I am convinced that the debate on point pensions will remove a whole series of injustices in the system. Today, the projects that will be on the government table are those. They will be discussed in the context of social consultation with government partners. Of course, they can still evolve. These are projects that are open to discussion and will be the subject of broad consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u96	Minister, thank you. Unfortunately, the measure you are proposing, which concerns the second period, will not suffice. You know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u97	I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u98	I did the math. Let us hope that there is still a willingness to discuss it. It is true that the point pension system will solve this problem. However, you know that such an ambitious reform will take time to get in place. Even if you introduce this device before 2030, we can still face Virginia and Caroline for years. The small film posted on Facebook was seen by 1.5 million people. It seems that another actor (female) sitting behind me in parliament always said "no". This may have had an effect in terms of visibility. Many people find this problem scandalous and believe that politics must solve it. In my opinion, your measure is good, but insufficient, in order to make the difference between someone who works - wage-earner or self-employed, I don't care because someone who works is someone who works; even a public servant works – and someone who doesn't work. I hope that discussions within the government will add further steps towards a fair system, including through the point system. In any case, I would like you to find a solution within a short period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic676x.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, we are closing the sitting for this morning. I propose that we hold the hearing this afternoon on the revision trend of pensions. Minister, thank you for your presence.
