ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u1	Colleagues, good afternoon. I shall first give the floor to both ministers, then it is up to the questioners. Thereafter, other members of both committees may join in order to ask further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u2	I will try to be brief, but I would like to mention the three dimensions (defence, diplomacy & development) of our action in the various countries of the region. First of all, the military hatch. The Secretary of Defense will provide more details, but I can already say that progress is being made on the ground in the military battle against Daesh. We are now close to success in Raqqa and Mosul, two very important cities. However, it is very difficult for all actors in the field. There is also great concern among citizens in the two cities. The military situation in the international context is becoming more complex every day. Yesterday, in the Committee on External Relations, we debated the current crisis in the Gulf States, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, Iran and Qatar. Relations between these countries are currently tense, and this has an impact on our possible military actions of the international coalition. The situation in Turkey, including with the Kurds, has also been discussed in detail. It is difficult to define a precise approach on the ground. There is a great will among the Kurds to build an independent state. The planned referendum on 25 September makes matters even more difficult. It strengthens relations within the international coalition, after all, the Kurds are a very important partner in the fight against Daesh. What are the possible consequences for Iraq's role in our coalition? That is also a very difficult time. On the operational level, I, like the Secretary of Defense, visited Al Udeid. On that U.S. military base in Qatar there are about 8,000 U.S. soldiers, managing the entire coalition, not only for Iraq and Syria but also for other places in the region. The current tense relations between the Gulf States make it not so obvious to have a correct approach in this respect. I won't say another word about the new president in the United States. At times there are very difficult discussions on various specific issues on the ground. Sometimes there are contradictions between the different partners in the coalition, we think of the situation of the Kurds and the position of Turkey and the European Union in that story, or the different proxy wars between Iran and Saudi Arabia in Yemen, but also in Iraq and Syria and perhaps even in Libya. I would just like to say that, as far as the military coalition is concerned, we are now experiencing a very difficult moment, with many contradictions and sometimes conflicts between partners. It is our job to look at what possible strategy we should use. I would like to reiterate that, as far as the European Union is concerned, we took a decision on 15 March 2015, which was a genuine anti-Daesh strategy in Iraq and Syria. That strategy or vision will have to be reviewed before the end of 2017. We have a number of very important points to make. For example, as far as Iraq is concerned, we are pursuing the same objective of inclusiveness in politics between the different groups and communities, a number of political reforms, a possible conflict management by the international community between the different partners. The reconstruction is also very important to us. In the construction of a new state, of a new country, it is also very important to pay great attention to migration, to trade with the different partners, and also to a number of reforms. Beyond that, we are trying to move forward politically. I have just mentioned a number of tensions between the partners. It is clear that Belgium, as such, but also throughout the European Union, is trying to play its part to see to what extent a certain number of tensions can be resolved or even reoriented. I do not go back to the debates we have had, including in this Chamber, on our relations with Saudi Arabia. But we could come back to the debate on Turkey. How can we maintain a capacity for discussion with Turkey on the problems of migration, on the problems of combating terrorism, while noting that there is a development in the country which makes the discussions on a process of accession to the European Union completely obsolete, but which also makes us much more responsive to the authoritarian evolution of the regime? This has consequences in this respect on the Kurdish question, as I said, and the way in which this relationship of the Kurdish question should be managed. We are trying to support a number of processes through the coalition. I would like to stress that, alongside participation in military action, Belgium is now participating in all the coalition working groups on stabilization, counter financing, counter messaging, foreign fighters, discussions on the military coalition itself. But if not, we are involved in all of the coalition's actions and it is also important as regards the repercussions of this crisis in Europe and in Belgium in particular, through the attacks we have experienced and the phenomena of radicalisation. We will try to continue to support all mediation processes. Yesterday, I referred to Kuwait's role in mediation with Saudi Arabia and its partners, on the one hand, and Qatar, on the other. The Astana process also has its merit in attempting to change a number of discussions between regional powers on Syria. But most of all, it is hoped that Staffan de Mistura will be able to resume a process in Geneva within the United Nations. We continue to support such approaches, trying to play our political and diplomatic role. This is done in cooperation, I must also mention, with Development Cooperation, since we have put in place a number of means in foreign affairs and cooperation to support practical approaches on the ground. As I said, we are participating in all of the coalition's working groups, but we also, through peacebuilding, released €3.1 million last year for a UNDP fund for immediate stabilization in Iraq. Since last year, thanks to a €900,000 envelope, we have been involved in demining projects in Iraq as part of reconstruction. We support mediation efforts, including the work of Sant'Egidio in a context of reconciliation. I was talking about the need to help with inclusiveness. We hope to contribute again next year to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Iraq Stabilization Fund. We have also tried to work to support the regions in crisis, even if we are present in the countries directly concerned, such as Syria. As such, €3 million has been contributed to a refugee assistance fund. Similarly, in neighbouring countries – Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey – we have released 166 million direct aid. Of course, UN interventions continue to be carried out in Iraq. Development Cooperation and Foreign Affairs are trying to encourage conflict resolution processes – mediation, conciliation, etc. – but also processes of humanitarian support to refugees, initially, and reconstruction, in a second phase. It is in this way that we try to participate in all possible military, diplomatic and development approaches. I have referred to the working groups, but I would like to draw your attention – we may return to them on the occasion of oral questions – to our action within the coalition, but also within the United Nations. Indeed, we have participated in a group at the United Nations to try to develop the sanctions regime and see how to put them in place. In many forums, we try to encourage the exchange of information, especially concerning foreign fighters. With regard to counter messaging, we have chosen to second two experts for a period of six months to the Global Coalition Communication Center in London, which is at the forefront in this field. We are also trying to be present, as is the case in the fight against radicalisation - for which we have organised meetings and events at the United Nations, in collaboration with Jordan and the European Union. To conclude on the working groups and the very practical actions, we have also foreseen that the President of CTIF, Mr de Koster, will participate in the Counter-Financing Group this month in Washington, so that CTIF will work even more actively bilaterally to support several countries in the fight against the financing of terrorism. Of course, we are progressing from a military point of view on the ground. This progress must be accompanied by reconstruction and stabilization. There is a great deal of attention in Iraq to this aspect of stabilization and reconstruction, but there is also a need to ensure that we can move towards a political transition and the organisation of a new political system in the various countries concerned. This does not prevent us from fighting impunity, which is one of the themes that Belgium has put at the forefront since the beginning of our action in this region of the world. We participate, for example, in international requests for investigations following tragic events such as chemical attacks. We have also supported the establishment by the United Nations of a mechanism to collect and retain evidence of crimes committed in Syria. The same goes for Iraq. As you know, we have had the opportunity to receive victims of violence and organized abductions on several occasions, especially against the Yezidi community. I'm thinking of Nadia Mourad. I repeat, Madam President, that we are working in these three areas. That is our task, as laid down in the resolutions and guidelines drawn up by Parliament, and which has also been decided by the government. The Secretary of Defense will be able to tell you more about military action on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go into more detail with you about the strategy and the campaign itself, the Belgian contribution to it and its outcome. I shall confine myself to the military aspect, which is one of the three Delors which form part of the overall approach to the Daesh problem. We are talking about the hard side of the story, and the other two Developments and Diplomacy are not discussed here. There is first and foremost the military campaign, but there are also campaigns to stop the movements of foreign terrorist fighters, to stop the financing of the terrorist group, to provide humanitarian assistance, which seems quite clear to me, and the strategic communication to counter the ideology of IS. After all, it is not because ISIS will at some point be military reports, that the ideas are simply defeated. That is why a military solution can never be the only solution to the conflict. It is perhaps important to note that the international coalition against IS consists of 68 countries. Since the NATO Special Meeting in May NATO has joined. We ourselves see the air campaign most closely, which happens in the air, so to speak. Perhaps it is important to note that in fact nine countries are active in kinetic, with real interventions, contributing to the air campaign. When we talk about Syria and Iraq, we are talking about the US, the United Kingdom, France, Australia, Jordan and Belgium. You know that we should in principle be relieved by the Dutch, but that this will happen later this year. In addition, a number of countries are active only in Syria, they are not part of the international coalition. It concerns Turkey, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Russia. Let me remind you of the military campaign, which consisted of four phases. I have been asked a great many questions in committee about the stage in which we found ourselves. I believe that, after the last events in Mosul, we can now say that we are between phase 2 and phase 3. The first, important, phase was of course to stop the tremendous rapid rise of IS, all over Iraq. The second phase comes down to launching a counterattack to eventually defeat them. The final phase is the post-conflict stabilisation. In this context, the coalition started an air campaign in Iraq on 8 August 2014. Is there the extension to Syria in September 2014 by the international coalition? The deployment of the Belgian F-16 was made in September 2014 only for Iraq. The extension to Syria was decided in June 2016. I would like to remind my fellow Members that in this story phase 3 and phase 4 are long-term stages. These are really questions that we need to assess in the long term. If we see what happened in previous conflicts where several international partners were involved – let's think about the conflict in the Balkans 25 years ago – we see that there is still insecurity... We note that there has been international presence in Afghanistan for more than 15 years, but that the country itself is still not stabilized enough to be able to guard its own security. So let us hope that we can very quickly leave the high spectrum of violence and move on to the next phase, the phase of stabilisation. However, I can assure you that this phase of stabilisation can wait a while, especially if we take into account not only the problems in the military field but also the diplomatic problems that arise in that region. When we talk about the Belgian contribution to the international coalition, we will call it a day on June 26th, 2017, we are talking about three different operations. That's important to note. With these three different operations, we are present in four countries in the region: Jordan, Iraq, Kuwait and Qatar. The first operation is the operation ODF. That is the air campaign in which we made a number of contributions, up to last week with six F-16 debt holders from Jordan and from this week on with four F-16 debt holders. Who's contributing today? The United States, but there is little we can say about their exact contribution. They're there with F-15 pistols, with Reapers, they're there with just about everything that can be imagined. France is present in the United Arab Emirates with 12 Rafales and a Maritime Patrol Aircraft. Australia deploys six F-18 gliders, an air tanker and a radar plane. The United Kingdom contributes with eight Tornados and six Typhoons, plus a number of Reapers, which are drones. Germany only carries out reconnaissance orders and therefore does not intervene kinetically. In the meantime, the German units were redeployed and are moving towards Jordan. Germany was present with six so-called Tornado pheasants Recce. The other operation is Train, Advise and Assist, Building Partner Capacity, as it's called. In this operation we are today contributing 42 Belgians, next to 100 French, 69 Canadians, 50 Norwegians, 40 Germans, 47 Finns and 60 Poles. In addition, there are a number of countries which do not report their exact numbers, such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Italy, Australia, Hungary, Slovenia, Turkey, New Zealand and even a number of Baltic States. We will now zoom in on the results of ODF, the air campaign. Our direct contribution is divided into two parts, with in between a period that was received by the Dutch. During that period we did part of the security for the Dutch. The first phase lasted from 26 September 2014 to 30 June 2015. The number of bombs used and the types you see projected on the screen. A total of 3 551 hours were flown during 796 sorties, the number of times a plane takes off. There were a total of 163 effective interventions during which 324 bombs were dropped. The second phase of our contribution started on 1 July 2016. We have statistics until 26 June 2017. Of course, we still use the same bombs. However, I would like to point out that these bombs are all, each and every one of them, precision weapons designed to explode in principle within five metres of their target. The Members who are present there are quite a few people in the Chamber who know that I am giving much more direct information about this in committee behind closed doors. They will also be able to confirm that these bombs have a number of institutions in place to minimise collateral damage. Those people are also aware of the high quality requirements that we impose on ourselves or that our air component imposes itself on accepting missions and the like. Now, over the past year we've flown 4 579 hours, done 919 sorties for 453 missions. What is perhaps important to note is that gradually the flights themselves have lasted longer and the interventions have actually increased in intensity. We are also giving the total figures for the entire coalition Iraq and Syria. The total amounts to 22 628 aerial interventions by the international coalition. Belgium contributes between 4% and 5%, a contribution which is effectively appreciated internationally. The second operation, Operation Valiant Phoenix (OVP), involved two phases. At the start of operations in 2014, so that Iraq can have reliable military forces in the long term that can guarantee the sovereignty of the Iraqi state throughout its territory, the coalition developed the Building Partner Capacity program. Belgian Defence played an active role in this programme as early as March 2015 and continues to play a highly appreciated role. Initially, some 30 Belgian soldiers were present at the Baghdad airport site and provided training to recruits from the Iraqi security forces. With the transition to the second phase of the campaign, which consisted of repelling the Islamic State and thus implying an increasing commitment of Iraqi forces to the north and west, a new need has emerged. These units we formed and set up had to be assisted and advised, something impossible to do by remaining in Baghdad because the units were deployed several hundred kilometres away. That's why the coalition set up the Train, Advise and Assist (TAA) program that we joined. We are also present in the Building Partner Capacity. We still have ten qualified people, whose qualifications such as mine clearance are needed, in Baghdad. Ten soldiers have a Train the Trainer role, and 45 are in the Train, Advise and Assist program, near Erbil. In recent months, the OVP detachment has supported the Kurdish Defense Forces and the Iraqi Security Forces from the observation positions north of Mosul. The Special Operations Surgical Team (SOST), in addition to its mission to support the Belgian detachment, also assists the medical services of the Iraqi army units. The team performed more than 400 medical interventions in the region. The nature and location of the assignment has meanwhile led to the deployment of armored vehicles, in order to protect our military even better. The decision to use these armored vehicles is a joint Belgian-Dutch decision, as you know, we work closely with the Dutch. The main reason is not that we are participating in battles, but that we can follow faster and be better protected against berm bombs and the like that might have been left behind in liberated areas. Let me be very clear: we are not present to enter area that is still disputed, there are no boots on the ground in the theatre itself, but we move very quickly after parts are liberated. That's why on 4 June 2017, six Belgian Dingo picnics flew over to Erbil on a Dingo Multi Purpose Patrol Vehicle. At the same time, the Dutch have developed four similar vehicles. As a result, the Belgian effectives in northern Iraq were increased by 14 men. The crew of the vehicles, of course, but also the necessary technicians. This means that the number of Belgian posts in Iraq in the framework of OVP today is about 55 soldiers. The most interesting thing is to look at the results. You see, to the left, the Islamic State in January 2015 and, to the right, the situation in June 2017. Since March 2015, about 2,500 Iraqis have been trained, in one way or another, by Belgian soldiers in Baghdad. These soldiers were recruited into government forces in Mosul, where they are advised and assisted by coalition units as part of the Train, Advise and Assist programme. Since early 2015, Daesh has lost 60% of the territory it controlled. Its workforce has been cut by 50 per cent, and its resources have declined in an incredible way. The overall effort should also be attributed to the other lines of action of the strategy as a whole. Il est clair que la focallisation sur les... money flows, which are also beginning to bear fruit. The international coalition estimates that there are about 12 000 IS fighters left in Syria and Iraq today. Maybe I can give you another figure on cases that ISIS owned at the time. When we talk about the taxes they levy and about the number of refineries and oil sources and other sources of income they had, we see that their revenues are decimated. In this context, we are between stages 2 and 3. It is very likely that the next six months will be decisive for the effective military defeat of ISIS, both in Iraq and Syria. In this context, the government decided a few weeks ago to extend the contribution we make with the F-16s until the end of this year, after which the Dutch will take over from us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u4	Gentlemen ministers, thank you for the explanatory statement and the state of play on our participation in the international coalition against IS. As has just been said, there is now time for the additional questions. It goes without saying that those who have submitted several questions ask them one after the other. Of course, it is not a problem to comment on the presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u5	Madam President, Ministers, thank you for the presentation and for giving us an explanation. Firstly, on the extension of the mission of our F-16 Tunisians in Syria and Iraq. I would just like to point out that this extension was introduced from 1 July. The government may have the full power to decide for itself, but there was indeed a promise from the Minister of Defence to give an evaluation. We have got them behind closed doors on the military aspect, but this evaluation could have been or should have been quicker. After all, in a number of cases where you explain that there is a certain amount of uncertainty, not about Defence, but about a number of other matters. Secondly, I regret the absence of a third minister in view of the 3D approach: diplomacy, defence and the future reconstruction of the country. Minister De Croo might as well have been here. You have just listed points of humanitarian aid in the financial field. However, this could have been an initiative of the President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u6	I might be able to get into this. Minister De Croo has indeed been asked, but it is already very difficult to convene a committee with two ministers. If Minister De Croo should have been present, we should have waited even longer. So we had this meeting without him. However, he was indeed asked but was prevented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u7	It is important, as indicated by Minister Vandeput in the explanatory statement on the situation in Syria and Iraq, which refers to the stage we are in, almost phase 3: defeating IS. That will initially be the military defeat of IS. In the minds of a number of attendees there, and unfortunately also in other locations throughout the world, the ideology of IS has not yet been defeated. You have indicated that stages 3 and 4 will be of long duration. Everyone, including us, advocates the 3D approach. It is very important to achieve stability in the region, not only in Syria and Iraq, but in the entire region of the Middle East. I shall first turn to my questions on Defence to Minister Vandeput, then to my questions on diplomacy. Our mission of the F-16... has been extended since June 30 until the end of the year. I believe I understand that the Netherlands would relieve us later this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u8	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u9	Until the end of the year? Okay, that's a clarification. We have been given the details of the finances, of the additional resources allocated to the extension of this mission. I believe I understand that around EUR 17 million is being financed in addition to the usual resources of the defence industry itself. There would also be a number of shifts in the defence budget. Minister, I think I remember you saying months ago that there were no funds available for this and that you did not think there were any extensions this year. There was therefore no additional EUR 17 million from the entire budget, nor from the Defence budget. Can you clarify this? What agreements have been made with the Netherlands? I thought it was initially agreed that the mission would be alternated every six months. Suddenly, for some reason I would like to know the real reasons of the Dutch... Aren't the F-16 people ready? I'm making a suggestion, Minister. I wonder what the Dutch have decided not to send any more F-16s for the next six months. I really wonder what is the right reason for this?I will make my comment about this under the Foreign Affairs item later. Are there any clear agreements? Is it purely because the F-16s of the Dutch are not operational and ours are so much better? Is that the only reason? I have serious reservations about this. Why can Belgium continue the operation and not the Netherlands? It does indicate that the operationality of our army and F-16 I have other questions about the situation on the ground, for example in Mosul. The number of deaths and injuries is rapidly increasing, in very densely populated areas. That's what figures are given. How can we, together with the other coalition partners and, for example, the Iraqi forces on the ground, ensure that every effort is made to avoid civilian casualties as much as possible? There is a great fear among the people. We must also be vigilant about this in order to restore peace. Every civilian victim is one too many and every civilian victim will soon remain a scar in the local population's memory of every force that has been on the ground. The end of IS has already been announced, military anyway. More and more land profits are being made by the coalition. IS is now more and more only in rural areas, but there are still casualties. The question is what role the Iraqi... has already been indicated by Minister Reynders that it is there a true spider web of various resistance groups. To what extent can Belgium and its coalition partners sit around the table with these people in order to achieve peace? I wonder what spider web we are entering and how we can achieve a lasting peace there. In the liberated areas, a strategy has recently been adopted which seems to prevent displaced persons and refugees from returning. In a selective way one tries to ensure that the destroyed buildings and areas are not rebuilt, or only in places where the newly established troops decide that it may be possible. This is actually a huge challenge for Syria. Who will ensure national reconciliation there? How does this reconciliation seem possible as long as there is no effective and lasting repatriation of refugees from the refugee camps. The issue of property rights also needs to be addressed so that the parties concerned can return. I would like to make a final general comment. When I hear you, Mr Reynders, it is indeed not an easy task. Everyone knows this. You referred to the Gulf crisis, the situation in Qatar. There is also the tension between the regime in Turkey and the Kurds, who are an important partner for us in the fight against IS. You have even made an allusion to the new President of the United States, but you do not want to go into that further; I can understand this. What I am missing is not a reproach, but simply a general observation: the international community still has a lot of work to do. At the moment, we are not so far off diplomatic ground. There are a huge number of groups in Syria and the region that defend their own interests. We all need to get these people around the table in order to find a sustainable solution. I call on Belgium to make great efforts within the United Nations and with regard to our coalition partners and to seek peace in diplomatic terms. This was not achieved in Libya at the time, and it has not yet been achieved in Afghanistan. I call for much more effort so that we do not hit the same stone a third time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u10	Mr Minister for Defence, Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to talk to you about Syria in particular because there has been a new Syria strategy at European level since 14 March 2017. It is interesting to see what Belgium has done in the past and what Belgium now needs to do to move towards more stability in Syria after IS reports will be. I think we can assume that this is a matter of time. We have requested this debate because we consider the 3D approach to be so important. I hope we all agree that bombing alone will not resolve the conflict in Syria. We need a military approach that we are already working on. But what's next? We must make an effort to ensure the stability of the country. Is that enough for Belgium? No. I want to do that analysis with you. We are talking about participating in a political transition, supporting the opposition, rebuilding the basic services and infrastructure in Syria itself. The new European Syria strategy sets out the lines. What has Belgium done since 2014? We have done two things in Syria. We have sent our F-16s there to bomb and we have provided humanitarian aid to the country. But have we also done things in the structural and long term? Political transition? Support for the opposition? Support for civil organisations? Building hospitals? No. I would like to make the comparison between Belgium and the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a similar country that also subscribes to this European strategy. They have a much better 3D approach than our country. However, on 30 June, we adopted a resolution in which we agreed to send out F-16. However, we also asked the Belgian Government to cooperate in international diplomatic, financial, economic and humanitarian initiatives to develop a sustainable solution to the crisis in Syria and Iraq. I make the comparison with the Netherlands. Don't worry about me. I would simply like to present to you what our country has done or has not done. Firstly, with regard to the political transition, the transition to political stability in Syria, Belgium has established political contacts with the UN mediator over the last three years and has given verbal support to UN mediation. Allow me to compare what the Netherlands has done. The Netherlands has put money on the table to enable this UN mediation, namely EUR 500 000 extra for the UN intermediary. Syrian women were also supported in the UN peace talks and supported the Track II initiatives. A second element is the strengthening of the moderate opposition in Syria, but also important. Civil society, society in Syria after IS and/or after Assad should be able to support this. What has Belgium done? Belgium has given EUR 50 000 for the establishment of an office for the Syrian opposition in Brussels. Belgium also maintains general political contacts with Syrian opposition groups. What has the Netherlands done? The Netherlands has given EUR 4 million to the Syrian Civil Defence and gave EUR 2.4 million to support independent Syrian media and build civil society and society building, which is important. The third dimension to the politically stabilising efforts we should nevertheless make in Syria is the restoration of some basic services, basic infrastructure and public services, such as medical services. Belgium has done nothing about this. The Netherlands has given EUR 5 million for the restoration of public services. Thus, the Netherlands spent EUR 5 million on public services, administrative services, while Belgium did nothing on that segment in Syria. A fourth dimension of the political efforts we should have made is the promotion of international law, which is extremely important in Syria, as war crimes committed there will have to be tried in one way or another. Belgium has given diplomatic support and provided EUR 250 000 in financial support for the establishment of a UN mechanism for impartial and independent judicial support to Syria so that there can be some court cases. Belgium has also given verbal support to the work of the UN Commission for the Investigation of Crimes in Syria. The Netherlands, on the other hand, has given EUR 1 million to this legal instrument. Furthermore, the Netherlands has also given EUR 250 000 to an initiative against chemical weapons. I don't think I need to remind you of the chemical attacks that are taking place in Syria. In addition, although not defined, the Netherlands has also provided financial support to the Syrian Justice and Accountability Centre for the crimes that have occurred. Furthermore, the Netherlands has also given attention and support to Syria in the Addressing Root Causes Fund, the fund that needs to investigate what is actually at the root of the problem in Syria. The Netherlands has provided financial support for this, not Belgium, my fellow Members. What we have done has been bombed and given quite a lot of humanitarian aid, emergency aid, as it were, not aimed at stabilisation, but at addressing humanitarian needs in the country. That is also important, but if we take the political stability in Syria seriously, as well as the resolution we adopted in the Chamber, we should of course have done much more than give emergency aid. Furthermore, if we go into more detail about this humanitarian aid, 75% of the humanitarian response and the humanitarian rescue operations on the ground will be carried out by local Syrian organisations. However, they receive only 0.9 % of the total Belgian humanitarian aid. That's weird. Why is that? Belgium particularly supports the major humanitarian organisations, while 75% of the humanitarian needs are addressed by local Syrian organisations to which we hardly spend any money. Why is that? Are we not sufficiently present on the premises? Do we have too little knowledge of the local humanitarian actors working there? I fear that this is the case effectively. A number of European countries are present in Gaziantep, a base for humanitarian action. Belgium is not there. Several NGOs and Belgian humanitarian workers can establish this. However, if we want to deal with the humanitarian need in Syria, we must be there. From there one can continue working with the local organisations. Belgium is absent there. However, there could be an alternative, Minister. I'd like to present it to you. The UN organisation OCHA has a fund that itself selects local Syrian organisations to give the funds in that fund to those local Syrian organisations. If we want to achieve effective humanitarian aid, then Belgium could put money into the OCHA fund. From there, it would end up with organizations that provide 75% of the humanitarian needs. That's not happening right now. I would like to ask you one more question. What can Belgium, or Europe, do more to break the siege strategy used by Assad in Syria? Assad is really pursuing a starving strategy for a number of cities. It is not easy to get there with humanitarian aid. There are slopes of humanitarian droppings that can happen behind the lines. Do you think that Europe, and also Belgium, should make a military contribution to this, why not? An element on the military operation under way, a question addressed to Minister Vandeput. Our F-16s are active there and are used intensively. We are a reliable partner of the Western coalition in this respect, but we have been seeing a huge peak in the number of civilian deaths for a number of months. That's not without danger. A peak in the number of civilian deaths in Syria will only further fuel the anti-Western feelings in Syria. This will not facilitate a long-term solution in Syria and will completely undermine the support for that Western operation. Are our Belgian F-16 pilots aware of that risk? I have always said that the Belgian pilots are cautious, but I would like to remind you of this trend of more and more civilian deaths. I would therefore like to ask you once again to maintain that caution and not to join in the cowboy adventures of a number of other countries, especially when the conflict increases in densely populated areas. Then it is important to show a great deal of restraint, because in the long term we must avoid civilian casualties. I would like to go one step further, Minister. The Western coalition uses white phosphorus in its attacks. More specifically near Raqqa there is the use of white phosphorus, perhaps by American devices. White phosphorus is used to lift a smokescreen, but leads to terrible burns and inhuman suffering when used carelessly. That is clearly the case here. It's used in densely populated areas. Actually, we're talking about a war crime here. Last year there were reports of the use of white phosphorus by American coalition aircraft. Have you included these elements in your decision whether or not to extend the operation of the Belgian F-16s? I ask it very directly: do we want to be involved with our aircraft in a military operation involving the use of white phosphorus, with civilian casualties, terrible civilian casualties? Is that what we want or what we don't? In fact, we could make the commitment of our Belgian F-16s dependent on that. We could demand that the coalition partners no longer use white phosphorus, otherwise we withdraw our Belgian F-16s. That is our proposal. We are serious about that proposal, Minister. I know, of course, that this will require a certain diplomatic weight to be placed on the scale of the coalition, on the allies. However, I think we should do that. There can be no question of us participating in an operation involving the use of white phosphorus, in which one is careless, making civilian deaths up to and including, in which a number of countries, not Belgium, behaves like cowboys. This puts a long-term solution at risk for Syria. That's what we should normally want. Finally, a few questions about our diplomatic efforts and the diplomatic context. I believe that we can say that President Trump is not going to say too much about it, Minister Reynders is very unpredictable in Syria. What is the European response to this? Isn't there a diplomatic void we can fill out? What do you think are the possibilities to separate Russia from Assad? I believe that perhaps the key lies there, of course, along with the Iranian support for Assad. However, it will be more difficult to separate Iran from Assad, but certainly with Russia we must try to do so. We need to take account of Russian interests in the region and we need a proper negotiation. Then there is the Astana agreement, which dates back to May. We have to be honest about that, that agreement has a number of achievements. The Astana agreement between Russia, Iran and Turkey has nevertheless led to a number of de-escalation zones or a first step towards those zones. The West and the European Union have never succeeded. Would we not take a step with Europe, regardless of what the United States is doing, towards Astana, towards that process of Astana to try to join that process and become a partner in it? We must, of course, also call for neutral observers to monitor the Astana agreement. If the European Union wants a dialogue in Iraq and certainly in Syria, then I do not think we can continue to cling to the United States that are unpredictable and do not want to talk to Iran in that region at all, while Iran will definitely be a partner in the Astana agreement. I therefore believe that we should be partly proactive with the European Union and develop our own strategy, independently of the United States. I would also like to explain this, as I have the impression that you are not taking it very seriously, which is entirely on your behalf. The United States is currently refusing to negotiate with Iran. However, one of the elements of the Astana agreement is that a de-escalation zone is being established in the south of Syria, actually quite close to the border with Israel. Israel obviously does not want Iranian presence in the south of Syria to guard that de-escalation zone. Israel and the United States are therefore completely withdrawing from this dynamic and do not want to know about it. However, if the de-escalation zone can be realized as an area where the citizens can go and be protected from the military conflict, then I think that we, the European Union, should certainly take it seriously in the short term, even if the United States does not want to go along with their unpredictability, dogma and taboos in that conflict. I believe that the time is ripe for a stronger, more autonomous strategy because of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u11	Madam President, Ministers, I would like to thank you for the comprehensive explanation we have received. It is not the first time we have had an exchange of views on this important issue. Moreover, the arguments have not changed since the resolution we adopted last year, to which the previous speaker has already referred. Resolution 1883 was adopted to extend the mandate of Defence and the Federal Government from Iraq to Syria. It is therefore a good thing that Mr De Vriendt realised that last year's resolution was a positive resolution with many strong points, which was not reflected in his attitude to the discussion and his voting behaviour in that resolution. Whatever I have to say, it is strange that, in the event of an exchange of views held at the request of the largest opposition party, the PS, it should be noted that just that group excels in its absence. I'm very sorry to hear that. Maybe they have other cats to fling, I'm not sure, but it's a pity they're not here today to start the debate with the government they asked for. Ladies and gentlemen, the military elimination of IS, of their leadership and planners and their entire support organisation in the would-be caliphate in Iraq and Syria is crucial for our security, but also for those of the citizens and refugees in those countries. An impressive coalition of which we have just received an overview and which is not a Western coalition, but an international one, has taken on this task and is counting on us to do our part. That is what we are doing substantially. Compared to other countries, such as neighbouring countries, it will always be possible to see that other countries are making more efforts in certain areas. I note that this federal government is making a lot of efforts, knowing, for example, that we are delivering 5% of the output on air support. This contribution from the Defence Department and the Federal Government is substantial within the framework of the international coalition. I thought the U.S. government's request to expand the deployment of air support from 1 July 2017 came in May. We then had an exchange of views on this in preparation for the NATO meeting. As far as we are concerned, this fits fully into the resolution, in other words within the framework created by Parliament. My group welcomes the government's positive response, knowing that there has been a lot of progress, but we are far from there. The figures you showed here prove that there is a positive evolution: 60% of the territory and 80% of the income of IS was lost, but we are not there yet. It is important that the government continues to react firmly to it and that we continue to show international solidarity. It is important to stress that neither the coalition nor the people on the ground, the Syrians, the Iraqis, the Kurds, you name it, are left in the cold. As far as we are concerned, abandoning our support is not an option. I have a specific question for the Secretary of Defense. A point of interest highlighted by many soldiers is that the combination and the additional assignment that is now available were not planned. To what extent are additional measures planned for the military who have long been at the front regarding their stressful working conditions and their family circumstances?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u12	Madam President, Ministers, since the beginning of the military strikes three years ago, the NGO Airwars reported the death of at least 4,118 civilians until June 8, 2017, killed by the strikes of the international coalition. None of these 4,118 victims were killed by Belgian F-16s, in any case if one believes the assertions of Minister Vandeput who, despite repeated requests from many associations and elsewhere in the PTB as well, never wanted to make public the targets, the weapons used and the dates of the bombings of Belgian F-16s in Syria and Iraq. The PTB denounces this intervention and Belgian participation in the international coalition from the beginning, without ambiguity. Indeed, we have always considered this intervention not to be the solution to the chaos in Syria and Iraq, nor to the terrorist attacks that targeted Brussels and other European cities. As a reminder, in 2014, when the government was in day-to-day business and we had the opportunity in this Parliament to vote on the military intervention, the PTB was the only party to vote against the intervention in Iraq. I recall the intervention of my colleague Raoul Hedebouw at the time, in September 2014, which focused on the dangers that such participation involved. I think that three years later, our position has not changed from an iota and that, unfortunately, we were right. We must be able to take stock of this intervention and of all the interventions in the region. The attacks and attempts at terrorist attacks in Belgium and Europe have not stopped, on the contrary. The history of these interventions shows that every new fundamentalist generation is more extreme than the previous one: Taliban, Al-Qaeda, Daesh. And even if our bombardments help to push Daesh back today, they risk making the bed of other groups in the future as, for example, already, Al-Qaeda Syrian version, al-Nosra, as said in this study of the think tank Institute for the Study of War, which highlights the interconnection between al-Nosra and the opposition. These military interventions are worse than good. No foreign military intervention of this nature has made the world safer, either in the bombed countries or in the bombed countries. Our bombs will fuel the spiral of violence and make more terrorists and refugees. It is only to look at the state of chaos and violence in which the countries that have been bombarded in recent years by NATO forces or assimilated. Fourteen years ago, the war in Iraq began under the pretext of the struggle against Al-Qaeda, the precursor of the Islamic State. Belgium bombed Libya in 2011. Since then, the country has become a lawless zone where multiple factions are fighting to control areas of influence and the deadly trafficking of refugees. As for Afghanistan, 16 years after the start of the intervention, a terrorist attack caused more than 150 deaths in early June. This shows that the chaos we sown there continues to flourish. On the other hand, we also question the credibility that we can attach to this war policy of combating terrorism, since the members of this international coalition – the United States in the lead – sell weapons to Saudi Arabia, the main material and ideological support for terrorism. I think we can consider that our bombs make more terrorists. The PTB is far from the only one to say so. Here are a few quotes: "The demands of the Daesh terrorists have systematically spoken of these civilian victims. We completely ignore them." (Jacques Baud, former Swiss intelligence officer). The same added: "After the attacks in Madrid in 2004, the new Spanish government decided to withdraw from the coalition. Spain has totally emerged from the terrorist threat and has not had an attack since." Another quote: "Every bomb brings more supporters to them. Logical, since any conflict results in collateral damage, innocent victims in families, wedding parties and unanticipated civilian targets. Each of these brutally beaten people suddenly has a reason to hate the West" (Phyllis Bennis, Institute for Policy Studies). Loretta Napoleoni, an Italian expert, confirms that, for Daesh, "Western bombs are the best way to consolidate her power and attract new recruits". Some sources are amazing, such as Brett McGurk, representative of the US government, who very recently admitted in an informal discussion that "every day the US fears a little more of losing Sunni support in Iraq" adding that in total, "this could last another decade". Another aspect is the illegality, under international law, of this intervention in Syria. I quote Olivier Corten, whom you probably all know and who is a professor and director of the Centre for International Law at the ULB: "It can be said that Belgium violates the Charter of the United Nations". He also appealed to international law experts against "an abusive invocation of self-defence to face the challenge of terrorism". This call gathered more than sixty academic signatures from around the world in just 24 hours. Illegal intervention, therefore. Intervention which also represents, I think, a threat to world peace and balance in the world. In my view, Belgium must clearly distance itself from this irresponsible military strategy, because in recent decades European governments, particularly British, French and Belgian, have always responded to the war by overbidding. I can also quote from CNCD-11.11.11: "Instead of extending the mission of the Belgian F-16s, Belgium should step up its political and humanitarian efforts." This was concluded by CNCD-11.11.11. 16 June in an article criticizing the extension of the F-16 mission to Iraq and Syria. The whole PTB supports this position, which is the only one that seems reasonable to us. It must be accompanied by concrete measures to drain the financial and weapons resources of the Islamic State. Another aspect that I must emphasize is the UN and NATO's supremacy in our government's vision of the UN. President Trump is asking us to increase our spending in NATO, but on the other hand, he announces that he is reducing his country's share of funding at the UN. Charles Michel, this federal government continues the military mission to remain a "credible" partner of the international coalition. Rather, in the PTB, it is felt that these are dangerous choices and that, on the contrary, the UN, its humanitarian institutions and its diplomacy should be strengthened because it is only within the framework of the UN that we can implement a policy of peace, keeping respect for the principles of the UN Charter and international law as the guiding principle, which is not the case of this coalition or our federal government. Finally, there is the problem of transparency. Among the coalition countries, Belgium is one of the least transparent in terms of external communication of the nature of F-16 flights, targeted targets and bombings. Minister Vandeput only reports on the number of casualties caused by these bombings and claims that this number is zero. I have had several times the opportunity to ask him questions about it but without much success. You confirm, Mr. Minister, with your little laugh! However, as a result of intensified bombings in the towns of Raqqa and Mosul, the number of civilian casualties killed by the international coalition has never been as high as in the past three months. It is in this context that the government decides to extend the military mission for another six months until the end of this year, to remain, as our Prime Minister says, a credible partner in the coalition. Minister, I think our position is clear, very clear. I have a few questions to ask. Why was Parliament not consulted before the extension of the F-16 mission? When will we finally be able to have, as a prerequisite for the extension of missions, a democratic and open debate on the outcome of the last 25 years of intervention in the Middle East? I think we should still take stock of these interventions one day. This record for us is catastrophic. The cost of extending this mission to the end of the year is estimated at $17 million or $18 million. Was this expenditure budgeted? It was planned that the army of the Netherlands would replace us from 1 July. They decided not to do so for budgetary reasons. The participation of the six Belgian F-16s alone cost EUR 46 million last year. The government is struggling to achieve a balanced budget, carried over from year to year. According to the National Bank, it will take 8 billion more to reach balance. In view of this budgetary situation, should we not also disengage from this costly undertaking? We can also wonder whether there is no better way to do with this budget to combat terrorism, in particular to step up the work in Belgium to combat recruitment, to expose propagandists and recruiters. According to the NGO Airwars, the international coalition killed at least 348 civilians in May 2017 alone during its bombings in Iraq and Syria. I ask you, Minister of Defence: how many civilian casualties must be attributed to the bombings of the Belgian F-16s?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u13	Madam President, after this refreshing speech on the notion of North Korean non-interference, I would like to share some thoughts with you on the statements made by the two ministers. I would like to rejoice because Mosul will, in the coming days or hours, be freed from the atrocious three-year-old fever of Daesh. Three years ago, to the day, al-Baghdadi pronounced the Caliphate of al-Nouri Mosque. I would like to pay tribute to all those who liberated this city, first of all Iraqi troops who paid very heavily for this victory. It is a victory for the Iraqis but also for all of us, for the entire international community and for all who have contributed to it. I would also like to pay tribute to all the civilian populations who suffered terribly during this occupation. I had the opportunity to meet some of them who were fleeing the fighting and the atrocious apocalyptic strategy of Daesh who preferred, Mr. Van Hees, to kill, liquidate, assassinate the people he was supposed to administer, by trapping them under bombs, traps, etc. In particular, I met a family who had been trapped for running into the arms of the Iraqi army and who was totally decimated by Daesh's traps. Personally, I never knew that in my humanitarian past, I never knew a terrorist force that was capable of destroying its own population.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u14	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u15	You didn't say anything about Daesh's men, Mr. Van Hees, it's totally scandalous! You know, the thousands of dead people you mentioned, they put them in front of the cannons, they put them in front of the bombs, they're the ones who bullied them and put them there. Not only did they put them there, but they locked them in their houses that they sealed so that people could not flee. That's what happened in Mosul. I would like to pay tribute to all those who have led this battle and I hope that it will end soon because the suffering has been terrible. I also hear that Raqqa could be taken over soon. Of course, I welcome these two great battles that are being won, but it is true that the war on terrorism is far from over. We know that we will have other battles to wage, in Iraq, Syria and elsewhere. I think, Mr Van Hees, that the reason why we are here today, with such a terrifying situation, as complex, as intertwined, as contradictory – as you pointed out earlier – is not because we have intervened. I think that is because we have been slow to intervene, because we have learned the wrong lessons from Libya. Of course, in Libya there have been serious mistakes, including the transition from military operation to a political solution. But not doing anything was obviously not a solution for Syria. And that is what we are paying for today: for three years we have allowed a war to be waged which we wanted to avoid it becoming international, becoming sectarian, leading to terrorism. We had all this and we had not even imagined, at that time, that the Islamic State would be born on this Syrian land. It is our non-interventionism that has led to the situation we are experiencing today. It is true that today there is every reason to be fundamentally worried about the future, since we see that tension and war are far from over in Syria and Iraq. We also see other hotbeds of tension between Qatar and Saudi Arabia, the ongoing war in Yemen, and overall a situation that remains extremely tense and complex. I have a few questions to the government. First of all, on what is happening for now – this is a question to the Minister of Defence, and I would also like to pay tribute to the Belgian troops on the ground and to our planes involved in these battles – it is true that the issue of civilians is extremely sensitive. These civilians used as human shields pose a particular problem. What specific strategy is used by the coalition to try to avoid civilians as much as possible? What is possibly Belgium's strategy in relation to this situation before us by Daesh? This poses a particular problem, since it is both a matter of fighting Daesh and, at the same time, of avoiding any civilian victim. As far as foreign terror fighters (FTF) are concerned, I would like to know the current situation. I hear that the French – and others – have asked their special forces to ensure that their FTFs do not return home. To be clear, lists of French FTFs are transmitted to Iraqis and Kurds with the mission not to let them return to the country. I would like to know what is happening to Belgium's strategy with regard to its own FTFs. Do we know how many are there today, what are their roles and what is Belgium's strategy for them? This question seems to me timely and I would like to receive an answer on this subject. With regard to the extension of the F-16s, I am pleased that a solution has been found with the Netherlands because it would have been unacceptable for this agreement between our two countries to be interrupted at such a crucial moment in military and strategic terms. With four F-16s, will we continue operations in Syria and Iraq? What would be the change in the scope of our operations for the future? You mentioned, minister, that our intervention represents 4 to 5% and I must admit that, in relation to your slide, I count 547 bombs dropped out of 22,628 air strikers. I get a figure twice as big as yours (2%), but maybe I've confused some columns. Could you clarify that number? Is this an effort of 5% or, rather, 2% of the entire effort of the international coalition? I have a question to the Foreign Minister about the development of our relations with the Kurds. You mentioned that he is a very important partner. You are aware that they announced a referendum for September 25th. How could this referendum change the situation both for us, for our presence on the spot and for the overall regional situation? What is our political position in relation to such a desire for independence? How do you think there may be additional hardship factors? It is well known that Iraqi Kurdistan has very good relations with the Turks, but I think that the Turks see with a bad eye the idea of Kurdish independence that could give ideas to other Kurds in the region. What are your feelings and the position of Belgium in this regard? As far as Syria is concerned, on a more political level, we feel that there is today a pragmatic attitude, notably that of the new French President towards the regime of Bashar al-Assad. Has our attitude changed with regard to this regime, which has enormous responsibilities in the evolution of the situation on the ground? Is there a common European position on this matter? Has this position changed recently? In relation to Donald Trump's field visit, I join Mr. From Vriendt. It can be seen how this visit to Saudi Arabia could have dramatic consequences. Today, analysts are moving more and more in this direction; it is clear that Saudi Arabia's strength-building towards Qatar follows a form of white-sing or green light given by the Trump administration or President Trump during his passage with huge commercial contracts at the key. What is your analysis of these high tensions between Qatar and Saudi Arabia today? We're even talking about a possible conflict that could start there. There are now articles in various newspapers and media in this regard. Is there any cause for concern? How can we try to reduce these tensions? It is rather curious to see Saudi Arabia give lessons in supporting terrorism to another country that probably also has things to put in order. Finally, we must not be fooled at Saudi Arabia's precise will to remain a regional power and counter Iran's ambitions in this part of the world. Finally, I will have two more brief interventions. Firstly, with regard to Belgian aid, I think it would be appropriate, Madam President, to obtain from the Government a precise picture, year by year, of the aid provided by Belgium. I mean 160 million euros, for example. If I am well informed, this is the total Belgian aid since the beginning of the conflict, from all countries. It would therefore be good to know the amount of Belgian aid per country and sector by sector, i.e. military, humanitarian and possibly political support, support for reconstruction or in the field of human rights. I would like to join the voices of those who are calling for a substantial amount of reconstruction in the liberated areas. I came back from a liberated area, the Plain of Nineveh. A range of villages have been destroyed, including Christian minority villages. Some of them return to the area but to areas completely destroyed. I think it would be very important and very useful if the European Community were already active in these areas to allow rapid reconstruction. I really insist that reconstruction assistance be substantial, visible and rapid in those villages that are being re-inhabited by those people who had fled them. The last intervention, that of the post-battle of Mosul, Raqqa, on political solutions. I confess to you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, that you have drawn up a fairly detailed picture of all the issues, of all the difficulties. But you have remained rather vague about the political solutions. I would very much like, particularly with regard to Mosul, to be reassured here as to how we will help the Iraqi authorities so that this city can be reborn from its ashes. It is largely destroyed. How will we ensure that it is reconstructed physically, but also that Kurdish, Sunni and Christian populations can eventually relive together side by side? What plans exist to protect these populations? The same applies to the Yezidis, the Christian minorities. These people, whom I met a few weeks ago, still do not know what the national and international mechanisms will be to ensure their protection. For example, I see that the Christian populations are gradually gathering in the Nineveh plain, hoping that they will find long-term protection there. I met people from Baghdad or other areas who came to settle there. They hope, but they still do not know whether it will be Iraq or the future Kurdistan that will protect them, and what international arrangements will be possible. I believe that there is a need for a multi-stage arrangement: a local arrangement, a national arrangement, and it is likely that the international community must provide long-term protection in these areas in one way or another. I imagine that this is not easy, but in any case it would be good if there were proposals for mechanisms on the table. From what I understand, this is not really the case. I really advocate that you, Minister, and others, should be able to consider mechanisms for the long-term protection of minorities, whatever they may be, and of the people in general, in those areas, to ensure that they can remain in those areas where they have always lived.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u16	Thank you, Mr Dallemagne. Other fellow Members can now join.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u17	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared my speech, but I cannot ignore the reflections of my colleagues. Without denying the necessity and importance of investing in humanitarian aid, in the public authorities, in the reconstruction of society, I do not share the view expressed by our colleague, Mr. From Vriendt, and which I could sum up in these terms: we bombed the country and did nothing else. Our group believes that if there had not been this military intervention, in which the Belgian forces participated – without making any mistakes, I would point out – we would simply not talk about what Mr. De Vriendt mentioned it. The Netherlands would then not have been very effective in its choice. There was a very indispensable and essential step, and that was the objective of this mission and of Belgian participation: the eradication of Daesh. This objective is being achieved; our group would like to recall that. We welcome the choices that have been made. Mr. Buysrogge said the importance of our government's investment. That is why we approve of all the choices that have been made. I do not want to set myself up as a judge of what my colleagues have said; it is not my role as a parliamentarian. But there is still a debate and I must admit that Mr. Van Hees is a true communist, pure. Why? Simply because it completely echoes the discourse that the Stalinists, that the Khmer Rouge, the worst criminals in history, apart perhaps from the Nazis, have held: the victims are still victims caused by the West. This is a speech that can already be found in Joseph Stalin's texts in the early '20s. Mr Van Hees, that you are critical of our government's social, political and economic action is your right. You have the chance to live in a democracy, so you can express yourself. However, I ask you to take advantage of your vacation to remember the history of the twentieth century. See if you don't have some corrections to make to the shameful speech you have made in our assembly! For the rest, Minister, you were right to begin with your presentation. As you pointed out from the outset, we are experiencing a difficult moment, given the complexity and intrication of the various problems, military, political, geopolitical, economic, religious, identity and human. In the latter term, I also include the very specific dimension of women and children. We also have difficulties in fearing, as you mentioned, with the decisions that can be taken by the US administration and President Trump. We are now facing a particularly difficult time, for which we will have to carry out both a reflection, an action and a strategy from the point of view of our diplomacy, which is really important. How can we achieve an effective and sustainable ceasefire? This is the question we are now facing: an effective and lasting ceasefire that will enable all populations and minorities, as Mr Dallemagne rightly pointed out, to live or return to a normal standard of living in a peaceful manner. The future Syria must preserve its unity. Or rather, is it capable of preserving its unity and security? All minorities must be able to find a place in this Syria of tomorrow, including the Kurds, that has been said, and including the Christian minorities. We are very attentive to the Christian minorities in our Parliament, since our colleague, Mr Luykx, has tabled a motion for a resolution which we have discussed and which focuses on this aspect. I also regret that the Socialist Party did not consider it appropriate to support it for more or less religious reasons. It's pretty amazing. Will the future Syria preserve its unity? That's an interesting question, minister. Why? Because you have referred to the need for the European Union to review its general view, the road map it has given itself. Do you think that, in the case of such a revision at European level, this must, may, may, may include a re-examination of the territory, in short, a division? Mr Dallemagne referred to the referendum desired by the Kurds. What is your point of view at this level? I also have a few questions about the de-escalation zones. Two months after the signing of the memorandum on these de-escalation zones, there is still no information on the implementation of this memorandum unless I am mistaken. You also referred to the negotiations in Geneva, with the desire to touch at the heart of the subject, namely, the political transition. What to do? How can we succeed in this political transition, the way in which powers evolve during the transition phase, the reform of the Syrian constitutional framework, the preparation of free and fair elections? In this context, what about the delegation representing opposition to the regime? Is it, in your opinion, sufficiently representative? Is there a credible, legitimate, united opposition in Syria? If so, what is your message to this opposition? A refugee issue. Nearly half a million Syrians have returned home since the beginning of the year, but the conditions for refugees to return to Syria in a safe and dignified manner are not yet – this is an understatement – effective. This is stressed by the United Nations Agency for Refugees. How can we therefore provide safe and unhindered access to humanitarian aid? Supplies are organized, but often they are forcibly removed from trucks even before they are handed over to the population. It is estimated that two hundred thousand medicines have been removed in this way during this year. The United Nations and its partners continue to be delayed and blocked by bureaucratic restrictions that limit the ability to reach civilians in besieged and hard-to-reach areas. Delays in sending facilitative letters continue to slow down the process of deploying inter-agency convoys. So how can we overcome these difficulties? How is the governance of the liberated areas of Daesh going? This must be a top priority. Do you have concrete examples of how to respond to them? I now ask a small attached question. What about the concern to protect and rebuild historical and cultural sites? Do you fear that the diplomatic crisis between Qatar and its neighbours will deepen the disagreements between opposition groups in Syria? Could that hinder a peace process that can be hoped for? We are also attentive – but you and some of my colleagues have already talked about it – to the need to do justice to all the victims of Daesh. There are indeed many. The question of the return of foreign fighters was also raised. What recommendations could be made to transit States, i.e. the countries through which such returns must pass to join our territories? Of course, we are also attentive to the fight against terrorism and the exchange of information, as well as to the fight against Islamic State propaganda through social networks. The report of the commission of inquiry on the attacks takes note of certain results. For the time being, it is studying all the phenomena of radicalization, including those driven by mosques. I have one final question about the F-16s. Mr Minister, as I said, I am absolutely in favour and I welcome - my group is delighted - the military action that has been carried out by the F-16s. We must pay tribute to the work done. When the parliamentary committee went with you, Minister, to Jordan, we had received a lot of information on how the F-16s could intervene effectively, in the event of the occupation of a building or a place by Daesh forces that prevented the progress of the ground forces. Therefore, my question is as follows. Does the maintenance of the F-16s on the ground also contribute to the military support necessary for the last combats – in any case I hope – on the ground? Madam President, I will conclude my questions with a tribute, a kind greeting, to the officer who had welcomed us to Jordan and who, unfortunately, recently passed away. We had a very pleasant interview with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u18	I would also, of course, like to thank the Ministers for their willingness to be here and to explain. I would like to make four points. First of all, I want to talk about the situation on the ground. We read in the last few days that Mosul's fall is near. I think that the air strikes of the past few weeks and months are part of that, Mr De Vriendt. My question is what impact this will have on the coalition's strategy? How will the coalition respond to the movements of the IS fighters in the coming period? How can she anticipate that? The release of Mosul does not mean that ISIS has left Syria and Iraq, quite the contrary. We hear IS fighters are hiding and moving south. Some of my fellow Members have already said that many experts expect that Syrian fighters or foreign terrorist fighters will never come back, that they will be there and will remain present. Then there is a question for the international coalition and also for our country. We've been there for almost a year and a half. Does this mean that the coalition will remain there permanently and that we will be committed to doing so? I think we should think about that. This brings me to my second point: the political solution and the efforts that are being made to achieve it. Minister Reynders just pointed out the sensitivities and new developments in the field. My question is whether, in the short or medium term, there is a chance of reaching a political solution? In particular, I am looking at the UN conferences in Geneva. The parallel talks in Astana were also discussed just now. What role does our country play in the search for a political solution? We all know that the talks in Geneva have so far produced little concrete results. In Astana one can talk about small successes. Should the EU and Belgium not join the Astana talks? There may be more chance of that success. With regard to the role of the Syrian opposition, do you believe, Minister, that the European Union has sufficient contact with the Syrian opposition and that we support them sufficiently? I believe that opposition must live up to it on the ground. I believe that she needs our support in the light of the new European Syria strategy. A third point concerns the extension of the mission in Syria and Iraq. We have been there for a year. Now it's going to be 18 months, so an extension of six months. My question to you, Minister of Defence, is: when will the Netherlands take over? Have they made any arrangements about that? What about the security of our men and our planes there? I understand that in the first two months we will have to vouch for security ourselves. My specific question is: will the Dutch adopt it in September? What consideration have they offered to the coalition for not taking over now? I come to my final point, the humanitarian aspect. Humanitarian resources are being spent today through UN agencies and major international aid organisations. However, the majority of humanitarian work is done by local Syrian organisations. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, since the Minister for Development Cooperation is not here, is: do we have sufficient insight into the situation on the ground and how these small local Syrian aid organisations operate? Do we have any idea how they deal with the financial assistance provided? Finally, I have a problem with Mr De Vriendt's comments. He's proposing to withdraw us from the coalition. I find that inconceivable and unacceptable! Mr De Vriendt, why are we there? Why are we in Syria and why are we in Iraq? Not to be a cowboy, but to save people's lives. I am very sorry that you put it that way. I have already said it a few times in committee: what if the international coalition had not come to the aid of the people of Iraq and Syria? Then what happened? You can rightly ask questions about the precision of the bombings and insist that the greatest care and care should be taken, but what if we had not been there? So I am very sorry that you want to risk the lives of women, children, men, and that you want to turn all those innocent people over to the barracks of Daesh.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u19	Much has already been said, a very good analysis has already been made of IS. Today we can be satisfied that they are almost defeated by military forces. This is, of course, very good news, partly thanks to Belgium's efforts in the coalition. We must continue to emphasise this. In other sessions in Parliament, much attention has already been paid to the humanitarian aspect. Minister De Croo has expressed the ambition to go to a ratio of 1 to 4 in the humanitarian sector, especially for emergency aid at the moment. My question, however, is what happens after IS military reports? If ISIS is military reports, of course, a very big first step has been taken, an essential step, but that will not ensure that the attractiveness of ideology has therefore disappeared. That can keep that ideology underground infiltrating. We can only refer to, for example, AQAP, but also AQIM, who have clearly expressed their support for IS or Boko Haram, whether or not they are serious. Maybe they're using it as a pubess to actually condone their own terrorist acts. That is why there are a number of questions. To what extent is there currently being discussed within the coalition and within the Belgian Government about what will happen after IS has been militaryly defeated? Is there an action plan yet? Is there any idea how our security services will have an important role to play both in the military and in the police security services, to respond to that ideology which can continue underground, both on our territory and outside? Again, it is important that IS military defeat is the first step. Once that's done, we'll have to move on afterwards. So my question is to what extent the coalition and the federal government are already discussing this. Is there an action plan for that yet? Are resources and staff opposed to this? Do we have any idea how this will be shaped? Secondly, the economic recovery will of course also be very important. Has any thought been given to how this region can be redesigned economically? It goes without saying, of course, that it is currently an economic graveyard there. Thirdly, is there any idea of how to refocus the emergency aid budgets? Is that a possibility or not? How can we support the local population to rebuild society and restore democracy? How will we deal with ethnic groups and ethnic tensions in the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u20	The advantage of being a fence shutter is that a lot of things have already been mentioned. Gentlemen, thank you for your statement. I would like to congratulate you, this government, for the persistence and solidarity you have shown within the coalition in the fight against the caliphate. I think that respect for any contribution to Daesh's horror must be addressed by all parties. Minister Reynders, you explained the 3D approach, an attitude which we supported and encouraged when our party was still in opposition and which we see carried out today by this government on the ground. Mr Top, I do not think it is important for three ministers to be here, but for the 3D principle to be applied on the ground. That's the essence. The rest is looking for nails on low water. Minister Reynders, I'm glad you're actively participating in the various ways you're trying to be present on the premises. Minister Vandeput, the last thing this government can be accused of is frivolity. Both in the military and in the diplomatic approach, there is a very cautious approach. Account shall be taken of the avoidance of civilian slaughter sacrifices and proper, stable post-care on site. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few more questions. Firstly, as far as Iraq is concerned, you, Minister Reynders, point out the complexity that is increasing. How can a story be written in such a complex file? I think this is because there's still an enemy today. The question is, of course, whether cohesion remains against an enemy when the enemy is defeated? With regard to Iraq, the territorial integrity of Iraqi territory should be maintained dogmatically. Are there any possibilities for decentralisation where everyone can get their place, as has already been said here? Secondly, I want to talk about the Kurds. The Kurds are an important pillar in the fight against ISIS. It is no secret that they are striving for autonomy both in Syria, Iraq and Turkey. Mr Miller, regionalist Miller, has already referred to it: there will be a referendum in northern Iraq and there will be the expansion of the de facto autonomous region of Rojava in Syria. With these two things in mind, how can our country and the international coalition react if the Kurds, that important ally, demand autonomy? Thirdly, I would like to address the Syrian territorial integrity and future of the Assad regime. If we look at the map, it's clear that Syria isn't what it used to be. That has become a completely new picture. That is why I would like to have an answer to the next question. How realistic does the government consider the departure of President Assad today? Is she prepared to accept the Assad regime as an interlocutor in exchange for the person Assad's departure? A fourth and final question concerns the aftercare and prevention of an IS 2.0. It is true that, especially in the short term, there is a danger of the caliphate remaining. We've already seen dormant cells re-emerging in recaptured areas around Mosul. In the medium term, IS-trusted militias in Afghanistan, Yemen, Sinai and even the Philippines could resume their operations. In our group's view, we must also prevent the Sunni people of Syria and Iraq from losing their weapons again from a perspective. That is why, according to this government, the coalition can, of course at the request of sovereign states, also be asked to fight new hotspots of IS. In other words, can the story continue after what happened today? Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Members from the Committee on External Relations for supporting the resolution on religious minorities, of which I am the main proposer. This is an important support for this government's policy as it is being pursued today. In this resolution, ladies and gentlemen, we also condemn the loss of religious minorities in the Middle East and North Africa, as well as the destruction of cultural heritage by IS. It is a resolution which, at least in committee, was unanimously supported. I hope that this resolution will also receive the broad support it deserves in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u21	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank all the Members who have expressed their support for the international coalition. I understand that some groups are opposed to intervention in Syria and Iraq. Some defend him quite openly. I know the position of the PTB, which fears that actions will lead to increasingly strong extremist groups each time. It's quite remarkable because it's a bit the same thing here: there's always a fear that an even more extremist group will ever appear than yours. But it is your choice to oppose this kind of intervention and leave the people in this situation. It is remarkable to hear Mr De Vriendt with almost the same reasoning: no military action. No military action means no military action by the Netherlands, by the US, by anyone. And then what? Then what happens on the premises? Then there's only Daesh. In Syria, in Iraq, maybe in Libya. Should we stay without military action? There's no point. I think it was necessary to establish a coalition with many countries in the region. You should not always talk about a Western coalition. That's a problem, by the way. In the coalition, we work with Saudi Arabia, Qatar and others, which is not always easy. But they are not part of the European Union or of North America. It is also impossible to listen to you without saying anything about Israel at the end. For me, it was very useful to hear a number of groups expressing their support for the coalition and for Belgium's actions in that coalition. By the way, it is active in all areas, not just military. We are also working on stabilisation, not only through a working group but through concrete actions on the ground, for example, for the stabilisation of Iraq. These are concrete actions with foreign fighters. I repeat: there are five different working groups in which we are active. But there are also concrete military actions, such as the reconstruction of Iraq or a number of other places in Syria. We are also active in the area of political transition. I would still like to say that in the coalition, I am not saying that there is necessarily a sequence. I am pleased to hear many of you thank those who free cities like Mosul and Raqqa. I recall – the Minister of Defence has alluded to it – that many Iraqi soldiers who lost their lives on the streets of Mosul were trained by our soldiers. We have now moved on to an on-site assistance and advice. And these people fight, day after day, under very difficult conditions to free a territory. Because before you rebuild Mosul, you have to release her. I'm not saying there's a systematic sequence, but rebuilding is done every time you think you've secured enough of an area, territory, city. One of the points that will come back to the government, to the European Union and certainly in discussions with you: in Iraq, for example, what is available to invest, not for a few months or a few years, but in the long term, probably for decades, to participate in a real reconstruction of the country? That is true for Iraq; it will probably be so for Syria as well. And we must imagine financing systems on countries that also have resources. You mustn't be mistaken. This is also true when we debate, for example, Libya. It was a mistake not to rebuild Libya early enough after military action, but it also has funding for a number of operations. So, it's a sequence. Mr De Vriendt, I have heard your comparison with the Netherlands, but there are no more Dutch F-16 people in the military field. Within the coalition that was the task of Belgium. I haven't heard from you about the military action, but the Netherlands had committed itself to continuing with its F-16-year-olds as of 1 July. However, that did not happen. Who's paying it now? By Belgium. In a coalition, isn't it normal for some countries to take military action? Other countries take humanitarian or other action. However, as of 1 July the Dutch support was over. Your comparison... Unfortunately, you can paint a complete picture, but your amounts are less than the next six months for Belgium in the military field. And yet we have done a lot of actions, for example EUR 32 million for the OCHA in Syria and Iraq. That is not just a funding from the Netherlands, but well, you are asking for nothing to be done in the military field, so your comparison only refers to the other possible actions. However, I do not see how it is possible for the Netherlands or another country to rebuild Raqqa without a military action on Raqqa. I don't understand. How is it possible to go to a reconstruction in a country owned by Daesh? I never understood how it would be possible to do that. Of course, we are working on reconstruction in this coalition, but we are also working on the political transition. I understand Mr Dallemagne, who is asking me for the proposals that can be put on the table. This is a permanent debate within the European Union, where Belgium obviously has its role to play. I am not going to mention all the elements mentioned earlier, but one of the first problems we are going to face is to organise an inclusive political transition, which has been systematically recalled. Without this, we will reopen fronts at a series of places, where we will find ourselves with conflicts, including armed ones. Many other things must accompany the political transition, but we must be able to include it. In Iraq, this inclusiveness is a real problem. It is recalled every time we have contacts with the Iraqi authorities: unfortunately, for the moment, there is a situation that does not sufficiently integrate all the communities. It's true in the army. We've seen him through the formations that we conduct in Baghdad. We do not find ourselves, at the end of the formation, with a balance between Sunnis and Shiites. There is a clear predominance. And it is a plea that must constantly be put forward on the part of the authorities, otherwise more and more separate areas appear, bringing together Sunni populations for one and Shia populations for the other. This is not a solution for the future of the country. It is therefore a debate that we will have to continue to conduct. And the coalition will have to remain present for a long time for reconstruction, perhaps also through United Nations peace-keeping decisions. It is clear that the process which the armies of the various countries will probably be able to set up in part, but which will have to be supported by operations, if possible from countries in the region, if possible and perhaps more broadly through United Nations resolutions, will have to be accompanied directly or indirectly. But we're only at the beginning of the process. I don't have any illusions. You're asking me what solutions we can put on the table. For Syria, I have participated several times in the meetings that took place during the negotiations in Geneva; I regularly discuss this with Staffan de Mistura. We're far away, far away from the count! Before I go back to minorities, I'll talk about the opposition. I've had a lot of contact with the opposition. We also support the Syrian opposition in Brussels, which has an office there. But what are the links between that international opposition and the internal opposition within Syria? That's the problem. We are also trying to establish contact with the internal opposition on the ground. It's not that easy. We're careful. We are trying to give support, but also to get more information about all possible groups within Syria. Is it possible to move towards a new position with regard to Syria at European level? I think so, but there are limits to it. There is no unanimity now. Penalty is impossible. I've always said that. Especially with regard to President Assad and some people around him. We have started a trial, we are fighting impunity, and we must continue to do so. This applies not only to Syria, but also to other places. A real negotiation process with the Damascus regime is also necessary. There was, in the past, in Geneva and in other places. There is always a balance between the fight against impunity and the negotiation process with a number of representatives of the regime. I repeat, we have had a lot of contact in Geneva with the government in Damascus, but not with other power holders. We will continue to work this way, because we must try to accompany what is being done. Between Astana and Geneva, we obviously favour the Geneva process. At the same time, we cannot call for a mechanism within the United Nations to be entirely in favour of it, while at the same time opting for other initiatives at certain times. We therefore support the Geneva approach, but I would point out that it is progressing very slowly. Astana is rather a meeting of regional powers. Of course, there are positive approaches, particularly with regard to a ceasefire or during very concrete discussions. When Russia, Turkey or Iran engage in dialogue, we know that they are officials who, unlike us, probably have the boots on the ground. For our part, we are actors, but in another way. It is clear that, given the links between these partners on the ground, they can play an important role. However, in order to make progress in political transitions, other actors need to be involved – whether they are global, such as the European Union or the United States, or regional. Whatever we think, I return to Saudi Arabia in this context, because it is not only with Iran that we will achieve this. We discussed it yesterday in the Committee on External Relations, so I will not go back to that. In any case, it is clear that if we fail to put the Shia and Sunni around the table, in one way or another, and, therefore, the regional powers that most strongly represent these currents – in other words, Iran and Saudi Arabia – we will not make progress. We are far from the point, given the fighting or debates in the Gulf region in this regard. However, the primary objective is inclusiveness, to ensure that as many actors as possible are around the table. As far as Christian minorities are concerned, we have already taken a number of initiatives. For example, with colleague Theo Francken it was possible to establish a number of people in Belgium, in a first action 200 people and then a second group. The most important thing, however, is to provide on-the-spot support. How is it possible to allow minorities, not just Christians, to live on the ground? That's very difficult. It is, I repeat, a problem of inclusiveness. There are many people from the Christian minority in the region around Erbil, for example, but what is their relationship with the government? We try to maintain direct contacts, but it is a problem of inclusiveness. Will there not be a reduction in the number of minorities? We have seen this, for example, in Egypt, Turkey and other places. This is happening not only in countries with armed conflict, but also in many other countries. However, we are prepared to do more, not only through reception in Belgium and Europe, but also through support on the ground, so that minorities get their place in the future of the countries concerned. I want to come back to a series of questions. I will ask the Minister for Cooperation to work on the aid table so that we can give it to you. To avoid misunderstandings, when I quote the 166 million aid, as I did earlier, it concerns the years 2015 to 2017, for three neighbouring countries: Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. I think that this humanitarian effort, when looking at the size of Belgium, is sensitive. I quoted the numbers through OCHA, but we can take over the whole thing. It is a good thing to have a picture of our various interventions. The main debate will be: what are we ready to do in the coming months and years, after the liberation of certain areas, for reconstruction? It is at this point that the issue is going to become heavy, in the medium and long term, as was pointed out earlier. There have been questions about how European funds can evolve. Mrs Turtelboom, as far as Turkey is concerned, we have already asked the question at European level. A majority of Member States are now ready to move towards a reorientation of the various European funds. Hopefully it will be possible to get a better response from the European Commission. There is already a beginning of a reorientation of the various European funds towards the population, the rule of law and a number of other actions on the ground to support the government and the different authorities in Turkey. You know that there is no unanimity on this issue at European level. We have used very clear language in all the forums of the European Union. So far, there has been a positive evolution towards a reorientation of the various funds towards the population. Mr Miller, you mentioned practical aspects of reconstruction. Cultural sites, a topic to which you are sensitive, will be part of the discussions. It is a matter of priority in the allocation of resources. Resources are available in a number of international funds to work in this way. However, to be able to reconstruct or re-interact on cultural sites, they must first be released. As far as foreign fighters are concerned, we have a lot of contact with transit countries, for example Turkey. This is a debate that we have with this country: how can we be very firm about the evolution of the Turkish regime, its authoritarian drifts, the multiple arrests, the current situation with asylum applications arriving in Belgium, while remaining in negotiation and contact on issues of common interest such as migration – we have had a debate on the agreements concluded between the European Union and Turkey – but also foreign fighters? If we want to be informed of the return to Belgium of a number of foreign fighters via Turkey, it is obvious that we need to have exchanges of information, for which we have established formulas, with Turkey and other partners. For the time being, the system works with good will on both sides, both in foreign affairs and in defence. There is no instruction not to let foreign fighters return home, but if foreign fighters want to return home, they must be taken from the start and brought before the judicial authority if possible. The Commission will decide whether these persons should follow a judicial or other route. The separation of powers imposes it in our country. That is why we have entered into agreements with Turkey, in order to be able to welcome these foreign fighters by knowing their journey and having the capacity to intervene early enough. We are prepared to provide further information on the amounts of assistance. I would like to conclude by saying that our approach is still within the European Union. If we are running a campaign, which is not going too badly, to return to the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member, it is because many partners consider that we have this tradition of seeking compromise solutions and peace solutions. Moreover, we do not have a specific national agenda in many conflict situations around the world. We will certainly be able to play an even more active role in 2019 and 2020, if we are around the UN table. But, as a first step, we do so primarily through the European Union. It is in this context that we can do the best. Again, I thank all those who support this action within the coalition. We are well aware that the solution will not be military. It is essential to have a military approach, but the solution will require reconstruction and, above all, political agreements. Without a real political transition in the countries concerned, and then perhaps elections and a possible new inclusive political system, a real stabilisation is impossible. That is not a task for the next two months, but it is for the following years and perhaps decades.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u22	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, especially those fellow Members who have expressed their support and are aware of the enormous work that has already been done in the military field in Syria and Iraq. Among other things, I will pass on Mr Dallemagne's homage to our people. This can be greatly appreciated. For those who think differently, Mr Top, it is really time for you either to learn to listen or to read. Questions sessions are being reported. The two of you, Mr Vandeput, will not keep his promises, but I am here today at Parliament's request. I'm here to answer your questions. If Parliament can't organize itself differently or if we can't organize the work together, then so be it, but we are here. Mr Van Hees, if Parliament has not been involved, it is because it is not necessary. We have a Constitution, Mr. Van Hees! Have you ever heard of it? For revolutionaries, there is no such thing. The Constitution stipulates that it is the government that decides. Point on the line! We're here today to discuss it. I didn't hear any question from you about the fight against Daesh. On the contrary, actually. I've heard all kinds of things, about Airwars, about civilians, but no word about the fight against Daesh. I must conclude that the PTB is a great supporter of Daesh and the model of society he promotes. That's what I need to understand about your intervention. You didn't say anything about the fight against Daesh. You didn't say anything about the horrors they're committing. Nothing! You didn't say anything about the dead they're responsible for. Mr. Top, we're here. That tweet of that broken promise: read the report before you send it around. I didn't break any promise. We have said: as soon as we can get to Parliament, we are here. And we're here. You are asking for clarity about the additional resources. That was clearly communicated: 17.2 million for four F-16..., 90 people for the rest of the year. Appointments with the Dutch. They cannot for a number of reasons. In fact, we said at the time that we can't do it either because our people are tired, our aircraft must also be maintained and our people must continue to train other capacities. We still have the additional problem that was not financially foreseen for us. One by one, we've eliminated those problems. As far as the training our pilots need to follow is concerned, we decided to provide an international contribution in terms of F-16... so that our pilots can re-condition themselves and do what needs to be done to maintain all their qualifications. As far as the maintenance of the F-16s and the like is concerned, we have decided to go from six to four. Now we fly six days a week with alternating four and two planes. That goes to two plus two. In addition, we have instructed the detachements commander to tax any risk or problem caused by fatigue of those people. We have found a number of ways to do faster rotations, allowing people to spend part of it with their families during holidays. In conclusion to all the problems we have solved, the government has decided at some point to release and allocate funds under the zero-decline. This will allow us to extend this extension to 17.2 million. As far as the civilian victims are concerned, we have been discussing them for months. But I'll repeat myself again. There is no one who does as much to avoid civilian casualties as we do. We have taken very specific measures to this end. The most important one might be the red card holder on the CAOC, the command center. In fact, it's not a red card holder who says we're not doing this. It is rather a green card holder who performs a whole series of checks before permission is given to carry out a particular mission. In addition, we have imposed a number of additional restrictions on ourselves. Mr. Miller, Mr. Dallemagne, I am sorry, but I am not communicating in public about the rules of engagement. Believe that we are doing everything possible to avoid civilian casualties. Mr Top, if you want to know the real reason why the Netherlands is not doing anything further this year, then perhaps you will have to ask your Dutch colleagues to put a question in the Netherlands about this. They may have to shout loudly, because I understand there aren't so many of them anymore. You can always try that there. The reasons I have been informed are the ones I have given you and which have also appeared in the media a number of times. If, on the basis of good research work, you know other reasons, I will not stop you from making them known to the world. I couldn't do that, by the way. I have one small comment for Mr De Vriendt. Mr De Vriendt, the Netherlands has a better 3D approach. The Netherlands brings together the budgets of foreign affairs, military operations and development cooperation. Personally, I don't think that's a bad idea. Last year, the Netherlands increased the budget for NATO, at the expense of development cooperation. I can't tell you how I feel about that idea. I'm in favour of a 3D approach. So there are opportunities to shift into these budgets. I think it's important to keep an eye on the way it's done. I think it's a good idea. Our people also sit together weekly to see how we can effectively address the issue with a 3D approach. That's the famous POLMIL meeting on Monday morning. I listened carefully to what you said. Indeed, Assad's policy is to starve out cities and such. You're asking if there's nothing we can do about it. Of course, that makes me a little confuse. On the one hand, you say that we should not be present in Syria. That is what your group said when we decided to operate over Syria. Our reason for operating over Syria is effectively the defence of Iraq, which has asked us to help. The country has the right to defend itself against an enemy operating from another country. We have also always made it very clear that the intervention in Belgium as a whole, and indeed in the international coalition, is not directed against or against the Assad regime, but against IS, against Daesh. So if you say now that we must make a contribution to acting against Assad, I think that is a revolutionary idea. Then you can explain that to your colleague on the right. Mr De Vriendt, perhaps you should explain it again, but I do not think we have any reason to intervene in the internal Syrian conflict. Where the UN still clearly states in the Security Council resolution that ISIS must be eradicated, matters have been said about Assad but no clear mandate is given to intervene. Even so, that would be a matter for serious reflection. As for the peak in civilian deaths, I'll leave that on your behalf. I have also said to Mr Van Hees that we can always talk about Airwars and publish it. Yeah, I think so, too. Every civilian death is too much. As Secretary of Defense, I have put a number of specific questions to the Defence Staff, in particular to the air component commander, to ensure that the risk is as low as possible. If I keep saying today that we know about two investigations that are ongoing, it still is. If there's no conclusive answer to that, it still is. Mr Van Hees, I am not going to say that we have killed people if I do not know if that is the case. Mr De Vriendt, you call the use of white phosphorus a war crime. Of course, that sounds good... First of all, let me say something: we do not use white phosphorus. Our F-16s don't have white phosphorus and they don't use it. I personally am not in favour of using white phosphorus either. The same channel that accused us of (...) in Mosul is now releasing a story about white phosphorus. I have then done what I can do as Minister of Defense: I have addressed a question to the Americans through my channels about what happened. That's my job at the time. I don't approve of that. Let me be clear: I do not approve of the use of white phosphorus. I refer you to the official communications of the U.S. Department of Defense. That is very open on his website. That indicated the circumstances in which the weapon was used. It therefore indicated that this is covered by international war law. One must always pay attention to the concept of war law, which is something peculiar. It is easy to say that a war crime is committed, but that means making mistakes against a right somewhere. For this to happen, investigations must be carried out and apparently they have been done. Therefore, it would have been used within the limits of the permissible residue definition, which is therefore not yet approved. Mr Dallemagne, believe me, with regard to the strategy for safe strikes, we are taking all possible measures. I don't talk about it in public, because it would then amount to revealing to Daesh what our constraints are – it wouldn't be healthy. As far as foreign terror fighters are concerned, I have also heard stories of French and English people trying to find their own and make sure they don't come home. The man on the street may think we could do this, but we won't. We try to find the whereabouts of foreign terror fighters by relying on the OCAM list. It is obvious that with the services of our partners, we try to find them and monitor their itinerary in case they want to prepare for their return. With regard to the extension changes, as I indicated, we will reduce the number of flying hours per month from 400 to 250. This is a consequence, but this contribution has been appreciated by our partners. Secondly, the number of bombs and kinetic missions should not be mixed. We deployed 871 bombs out of a total of 22,628 belonging to the entire coalition. This gives 3.85 per cent of the total. Mr. Miller, you're asking me if they're going to support future initiatives. It seems to me good, but we never communicate what we are going to do. It is normal, from a military point of view, not to say the previous day what we are going to do the next day. I note that you agree with me. Mr Yüksel, you asked whether or not the foreign terrorist fighters will stay and what are the predictions. The fact is that their movements are being monitored. Therefore, both kinetic and Recce flights are and remain very important. For the rest, I have already answered Mr Dallemagne about what needs to be done to try to find out where they are. Let us be clear: we do not have any Special Forces out there with a long knife, although we are addressed on the street that this would be a good idea for us. We do not, however, do so. Mr Yüksel, you asked when the Netherlands would take over. According to new agreements, this is serious and will take place on 1 January 2018. The Netherlands will do so with or without a government. In the Netherlands, such a thing works with a letter of inquiry. We were allowed to look at the letter of office. It states that for planning reasons, the Netherlands will go for a period of nine months. That is what was decided before the elections. Of course, we do not know whether my Dutch colleague will stay on when a new government is formed in the Netherlands. However, he knows that we are asking to go for the whole year. In addition, there was a question of what should happen to security. Let us be honest: there is a lot of talk about this. Mr Yüksel, you need to be careful with your sources. I know you have many sources, but they are not always well informed. The fact is that the Netherlands is also somewhat surprised because we decided very quickly to stay. As a result, they didn't have a squad that was trained to do aerial field surveillance. They caught up with that over there, and they're gonna send people over there now. They currently trained a number of marines to go to airfield guards. Moreover, they have a number of people there with our people. The choice we had to make is whether we would take a specific type of surveillance risk in the security system with non-experienced people, by knocking on the table and saying that they should be in charge of surveillance from 1 July 2017. That wasn't the best choice, it's more important that we have good surveillance. However, the Netherlands will take over on the very symbolic date of 21 July 2017. What further consideration will the Netherlands provide? I am not going to give you the same answer as I gave Mr Yüksel, but you can ask your Dutch. I can tell you that they themselves have announced that they are delivering a tanker plane. Together they have raised their contribution to Operation Valiant Phoenix (OVP). They'll take care of our detachment at the airport. What other things they do, you really should ask them. I know the return they're doing for us. There are some reliefs from other tasks that were planned for us, they take over a number of smaller matters. All in all, it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say something. I think there is quite a caricature of the reaction not only from myself but also from my fellow Members. I do not have the habit of defending my colleague Van Hees, but when it is concluded after his statement that PTB-PVDA supports IS, from the mouths of two ministers, at what level are we actually debating here? Mr Van Hees is not defending IS, we all know that, but you like to make it a caricature. Why? To kill the debate. [[Objection]] Do you really believe that Mr Van Hees is defending and defending the murderers of ISIS? So stop the ridicule and go into the elements we indicate. Then I have a second example of caricature. When I talk about Israel in a debate on Syria and Iraq, the Foreign Minister replies that, of course, I cannot make a statement without talking about Israel. If the Foreign Minister denies that Israel is playing a role in this conflict and that its links with Iran are very important in this, then that says a lot about your ability to analyse the conflict, Minister. These are just two examples of the caricatural way in which you have responded to a number of elements. You claim that we are in favour of the withdrawal of the Belgian F-16 Tunisians when it comes to military action against ISIS. I didn't say that at all. I said that the commitment of the Belgian F-16 members should be part of a global political strategy that is not there at the moment. I have even said literally, Minister for Foreign Affairs, that the fight against ISIS must and will be won. I literally said that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u25	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u26	Mr Buysrogge, I tell you that we are not in favour of the withdrawal of the Belgian F-16 Tunisians. It's very clear, isn't it? However, I say that they must be deployed within an overall political strategy, which is not now in Iraq and certainly not in Syria. I will then come to the political transition. A number of fellow Members, including Mr Dallemagne, referred to Libya. You yourself said that military intervention in Libya was necessary. You know that Ecolo-Green supported this action, and we still support it. We have hardly done anything about the political transition. Minister, we are making that mistake again with regard to Syria. In fact, Belgium excels in that. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u27	I have given you the table of Belgium's efforts in the area of political reconstruction. You always shake from no, but in your reply you have put an element opposite, namely OCHA. However, Belgium does not provide financial support to the UN intermediary. The Belgian support for Syria Civil Defence is non-existent. There is no financial support for independent Syrian media. The UN body, which aims to punish war crimes committed in Syria, is not supported by Belgium. Restore public services, the Netherlands spends five million euros, Belgium zero. So, Minister, your working groups on political reconstruction are good, but I say to you and to colleagues that Belgium is barely doing anything about political reconstruction. We're making the same mistake as in Libya. If it's not true, why don't you replicate? Ah, now we're here. So you don't think we should talk about money. Well, this is also about financial support for the initiatives in Syria, Minister. I note that the Netherlands does and Belgium does not. I have a question for you: you have only replicated one element, namely that Belgium is supporting OCHA, EUR 32 million. I would like to ask you exactly what that is about. Is this about the fund that distributes funds to local Syrian aid organisations? Is that about the Turkey Humanitarian Fund or is that about other contributions from our country to OCHA, the annual contribution we make? So that's an additional question. Then we come to Holland. Your reasoning is that Belgium does a lot of military work because the Netherlands is no longer active there with F-16's. So we can't do everything. It is not difficult, the Netherlands does a lot about political reconstruction but they do nothing in the military field. That's your reasoning. Firstly, I think it is rather strong that you ask, since we are already doing so much military work, why we should still do something politically. Budgetary constraints and so on. I think that is a wrong choice, especially for a country such as Belgium which has an historic role to play and, by the way, has expertise in institution building worldwide. We have expertise, that's our specialty. Apart from that, it doesn't add up. Belgium and the Netherlands have perfectly alternated the deployment of the F-16s since 2014. So there's been a perfect turn. In these last six months the Netherlands does not take up the turn, but the Netherlands is present with more soldiers in the region than Belgium; the Minister of Defence will undoubtedly agree with that. It is not because the Netherlands is no longer active with F-16's... The Netherlands has 150 men in Erbil and Baghdad, which is much more than Belgium. So the argument, however absurd, that Belgium should do less in political reconstruction because we are military, is not in fact correct. There has always been a turn and now the Netherlands is there with soldiers on the ground, in Erbil and Baghdad, much more present than Belgium. Then about Astana. I have advocated, on behalf of my group, a greater diplomatic role for the European Union. I have said that the Turks, Iran and Russia have managed to achieve a small diplomatic success. The suggestion that the European Union should not try to join us, regardless of what the US is doing, is not from me but from Koert Debeuf, an expert in the region and not from an ideological point of view. Instead of always shaking your head, laughing and scorning about concrete slopes that are put forward in a parliamentary debate, I would like to tell you that the slope is described much more extensively by Koert Debeuf. Then to the Secretary of Defense. You give the impression that I have said that we want to intervene against Assad. When did I say that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u28	Let's be honest. You have asked to intervene in an Assad-controlled area, where he uses a method to starve cities. You asked me to intervene. If you ask me a question, the answer will be military. It won't be with flowers. Well, then I misunderstood your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u29	I'm glad you're at least admitting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u30	Maybe you asked your question a little weird, too. I understand that you have said that we must intervene in order to enable humanitarian aid where Assad is seizing cities, because Assad does not allow it. If you ask that question to the Secretary of Defense, it is quite logical that he should say that military means should be used to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u31	I am glad that you admit that you may have misunderstood something, because I have literally used the words "humanitarian droppings'. So maybe next time you'll listen a little better. Read the report. You also said that this was not covered by UN mandates. Humanitarian droppings are covered by a number of UN mandates active. It's just not gonna happen. Hence my suggestion: what can Europe, what can Belgium possibly do to enable such humanitarian drops?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u32	Mr De Vriendt, you will still give yourself access to an air space in which you are not welcome to do drops. So you are de facto against the Assad regime. You are meddling in an internal internal conflict. That is your choice, but we have always said that we do not have a mandate for this internal conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u33	Minister, what I propose is covered by a UN mandate. This means, for example, that a country such as Russia does not oppose it. That is important to know: it is covered by international law. I now come to the military operation and the deployment of our Belgian F-16 officers. The information on the use of white phosphorus, perhaps by American aircraft, does not come from Airwars, the same source as The Guardian, but it actually comes from Amnesty International, which reports and has detected this. You're asking if that's a war crime. Now, if white phosphorus is used in densely populated areas, it can and will probably be regarded as a war crime. In any case, it can be totally rejected. It is on top of previous reports that the United States would have used depleted uranium ammunition in the conflict. So I'm sticking to my point. Our F-16s are there, which gives us a certain leverage. We can therefore demand from our coalition partners that they no longer deploy such ammunition, otherwise we will withdraw our F-16s immediately. I think it's worth considering. It is also possible that the coalition partners will respond to this demand, especially if we were supported by other countries, and then the methods will be adapted. Finally, I have another question for the Foreign Minister. In my view, this question has not yet been addressed. Raqqa is falling, but what will we do if the Kurds take Raqqa? Do we not support them anymore? If that happens, we will see that Assad takes Raqqa, as he is fighting against the Kurds, a battle he may win if we withdraw our support. If we continue to support the Kurds, we will, of course, be in direct conflict with Assad's troops. So what position will we take with regard to the Kurdish troops, who may soon take up Raqqa?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u34	Madam Chair, I would like to thank the government for its responses. Maybe a few short lines. You know that my group has always supported the government's military efforts. We continue, of course, and we think it is important that we can do our part. But I would like to say that I am very attentive to respect for the law of war. I am therefore pleased that Belgium has not done the same as other countries. You cited Great Britain and France. I believe that criminals and terrorists must be brought to justice. They must not be slaughtered. I think we'd be dishonored if we did this kind of thing and we didn't respect the values we're defending. The second element is the use of white phosphorus. I understand you've sent a letter to the U.S. General Staff. In any case, I would like Belgium to protest against the use of such weapons because these weapons are not permitted under the law of war. They could hurt civilians. I would like Belgium to protest against the use of such weapons, which seem not only not to be necessary, but also, once again, indiscriminate weapons that could reach civilians. Politically, Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, and this is not a criticism of you, you said, "We are far from the point." It is true that it is worrying to be far from the political point of view because we are almost, in some areas, the day after the military battle. It is therefore really important that we can act with all our weight since we have military operations, since we have financial support, so that the lines move politically and that what you have called an inclusive process can take place. It is extremely important for this political process to succeed, otherwise other lines of fracture will open immediately. In this area, I would like to stress that reconstruction efforts should take place as soon as possible. You said it would be for the next few months, for the next few years and for the next few decades. There are areas that are liberated and are stable today. I visited a city like Qaraqosh, which is the largest Christian city in northern Iraq. It's completely destroyed. Its inhabitants are left without support, without help. I think it would be useful if you could see with your European colleagues how to provide immediate assistance in territories that are now stable, relatively stable, in any case stable enough for people to want to return and recover, how to help these populations settle there. It is also important to see how a protection system can be put in place on several floors: local, national and international. I also believe that these protection mechanisms must be linked with assistance and assistance, be they military, political or financial. As far as the picture is concerned, I think it is useful to receive aid from the various departments, from cooperation, from your department, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence, so that we can get an overview of aid by department, country and year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u35	Madam President, I would like to react quickly to the violence of the attacks that have been expressed against my position, a violence strewn with intellectual indigence, in order to remain polite. This violence demonstrates the attempt to impose a single thought. Either we support American-dominated military interventions around the world, or we don't support them, which means we're in favor of Daesh, or we're being subjected to other unsubstantiated insults. I also denounced the atrocities perpetrated by Daesh, which allowed Minister Reynders to make a trait when I said that every successive terrorist organization (Talibans, Al-Qaeda, Daesh) reached higher levels of extremism and atrocities. He was able to make a comparison with Belgium, which shows that I stressed it. This logic "you are either with us or against us" is a unique thought which, for me, is unbearable. It is obvious that we are all against Daesh but the question is how Daesh was built and how to avoid a Daesh 2.0 appearing tomorrow, which you refuse to answer because it would make your position uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u37	I think I made it clear that the interventions were worse. It promises the worst for tomorrow. Take stock of 25 years of interventions in the Middle East!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u38	The figures are there: for the moment, a hundred thousand people are locked up in the centre of the city. You say we mustn't intervene! Then Mr. De Vriendt defends you, he does what he wants. But I see that if we don't intervene... today, these people are led by a terrorist group of the most violent we've ever known. You say we mustn't interfere. But what do you say to those people who are dying right now?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u39	...and who was born of your interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u40	We'll take stock. So you let them die in the hands of these groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u41	I'm saying you're the one who built this situation. You're responsible for this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u42	One can wonder how the Second World War began!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u43	No, no, that you can't...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u44	You're so strong in the comments. What are you saying today to the inhabitants of Mosul or Raqqa?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u45	You'll be asking the question again in five or ten years. What do you say about the situation that we've created and that will be even worse?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u46	That's it! So you let them die! Contrary to what Mr. De Vriendt said, our reaction is not caricatural. Today they are people who live there, in the field! Mr De Vriendt, you are now in favour of an intervention. You want to do more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u47	It's the same reasoning every time. We intervene and the consequences are dramatic. So we have to intervene again and the consequences are even more dramatic. So, we need to step in. It's an endless loop. By the way, I would point out to Mr. Miller that the Khmer Rouge were not overthrown by a Western army. I see you don't know who overturned the Khmer Rouge. I close this little historical parenthesis because, here, is not the debate of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u48	(...) You are a true, pure man. You repeat the speech they have spoken for decades, massacring tens of millions of people. I, Mr Van Hees, have nothing against you personally, but I invite you to a little intellectual honesty. Enjoy the holidays! Rest! Go read a little about what your ideological fathers have brought. I've never made a historical mistake in relation to them. I said they said the same thing as what you're saying a little stupidly now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u49	That's what I advise you, too. I also recommend historical readings to review your theses a little bit. Go over the story on that specific point. I think it might be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u50	An excellent book just came out. "Crimes of Communism." There are tens, tens and tens of millions of them. But when you talk to the Walloon and Brussels population, you never really talk about the concepts of communism. You never talk about the Marxist ideology that brought this. You're not a popular communist. You're a populist communist! It's even worse! You use tricks and strings to get people to vote for you and hide the reality of the program you're preparing. Objectively, with all the sympathy you can get out as a character, you're a pretty dangerous person, Mr. Van Hees. Dangerous! The speech that you made today before this commission, or rather – Minister Vandeput is right – that you did not hold before this commission makes you a dangerous person. Not a single word for the victims, not a word for the victims of sexual slavery, not a word for the tortured victims, the beheaded, the locked up. Nothing! Not a word for these! It is simply the fact that we can criticize again the West which would be responsible for the disintegration of everything. And fortunately, the PTB Communism is here to save everything! Think about it, Mr. Van Hees! Return to a little bit of political realism in relation to such serious facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u51	Mr Miller, I would point out to you that in civil society, organisations that have nothing communists, which have a pacifist basis, defend the same position. I mentioned it earlier. And once again, attacking me with this violence shows a desire to avoid a debate which, for me, is central: it is the record of 25 years of intervention in the Middle East. There's no answer to that. In relation to this, I would still like to quote a dispatch of 26 June 2012 – before there is a Daesh problem in the region –: "The Belgian Foreign Minister Didier Reynders did not exclude yesterday an international intervention in Syria outside the framework of the United Nations." In 2012, Mr Reynders defended an intervention. There was no problem with Daesh. But there's always a reason for intervention. Daesh wasn't a problem back then. Perhaps even for Mr Reynders, Daesh was part of the solution, since it was absolutely necessary, by all means, to overthrow Bashar al-Assad, in particular by supporting all forms of opposition to the Syrian regime. This is where this kind of position leads, which consists in wanting to intervene at any cost anywhere in the world, usually under American domination. These are the contradictions that we face with these kinds of positions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u52	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u53	A short response, Mr Miller?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u54	Madam President, it is short, it is brief, and it is calmer than the previous one. In fact, Mr. Van Hees, you are very logical with yourself and with the doctrine of your party. Why? Because when we look at the parliamentary work that has led to the adoption of anti-terrorism laws in different ways, at different levels, we find that the PTB has always voted against it. You have never supported any proposal that democracy should try to protect itself from terrorists. You voted against it all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u55	They're for terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u56	We understand your silence here when it comes to the military operation against Daesh. And we understand your point of view. I said I'd be brief, Madam President. This parliamentarian, as is his right – we are not in a communist system, democracy allows – defends a position that is true every time we vote on a proposal to fight terrorism. And his party votes against every time!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u57	You continue in the amalgam, as Minister Vandeput did earlier: "If you are not with us, you are against us." We have other solutions to the fight against terrorism. We have tabled a motion for a resolution, which I invite you to read. You may be interested. We have solutions and responses to the fight against terrorism. They're not the same as yours. Excuse me for rarely agreeing with this government, but stop these amalgams! In your opinion, when we disagree with you, we are the worst monster!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u58	I would like to say to Mr Miller that he should not read too much about this holiday. If he's on Wikipedia looking for the top 10 of the greatest mass murderers, he'll find six communists there. Much more should not be read about it in order to support the analysis. He shouldn't read books, he shouldn't read too much literature, just type in: "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia," "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - "Wikipedia" - [[Adjournment of Mr Van Hees without micro]] If you would like me to give you a lot of literature on this, I can, of course, give you a lot of books. I thought, with today's polemic: keep it simple and stupid. Take a look at that top 10. [[Adjournment of Mr Van Hees without micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u59	Mr Van Hees, Mrs Turtelboom has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u60	Until further notice, none of them died, on the contrary, they were socialist problems that had to be solved. I'm going back to the subject. I think it is very sensible that Minister Reynders referred to Libya. Indeed, I think we should learn from that. I do not have the fatalism of Mr De Vriendt, who says that we are doing exactly the same thing as in Libya. At present, all areas need military consolidation. First, IS must be defeated and eradicated before the next step can be taken. I do think it is important that we learn from what happened in Libya. Not only the military victory over ISIS is important, but only afterwards the real work happens. Only afterwards will it be seen whether the country will stabilise again, whether there will be a democracy, whether there will be a society, or whether there will be an economic recovery. In this way, a structural reform will be advocated and the ideology that can see through underground will be shut down. In my first speech I referred to AQAP and AQIM. In countries like Mali and Somalia, we see what it means if there is no rule or law, if there is no society, if there is no economy, if the country does not recover. Then these ideologies continue to take over. We may win the military battle, but the military battle is only a first, very necessary step. Afterwards, however, another very important and great work follows.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u61	Mr De Vriendt, I have heard your defence, but I stand by my position. I heard Mr Van Hees. For Mosul, Raqqa: nothing. I haven't heard any words yet. I don't make caricatures: there are people, women, children. I always hear you ask: what is possible for women and children in conflict? They're over there. Did you hear that? I understand your defense, but you may have been in trouble. However, I do not make a caricature when I say that no one has made any comment about the victims in the two cities and in several municipalities in Syria and Iraq. I already have to read a resolution to find something on that. 3D also means "Defense." Two points, Mr De Vriendt. First of all, Syria. I am pleased, because there seems to be an evolution in Green's position: you are in favour of intervention in Syria. You said that you should not go from Syria. So we're staying. You yourself asked, as the Minister of Defence said, to move on in some place. That is a real evolution, because so far I have always heard that your group was opposed to such an intervention in Syria. Second, OCHA. There's a Central Emergency Response Fund for Syria and Iraq. We have given 32 million and will provide the committee with a table. Specifically, this was for Syria and Iraq alone, the CERF of OCHA. That is a concrete amount, but there are many other amounts. I'm just saying that 3D effectively encompasses the three elements. To be more precise: without military intervention from Belgium, we have nothing to say and we are not at the table. Why do we have such a place in the coalition, why are we in five working groups, why do we have many contacts? Thanks to our military intervention. I remember 15 years ago there were many doubts about doing something in Belgium, which made it impossible to sit at the table. Today, with our military credibility, it is possible to do something for the other two dimensions as well. But for OCHA that is clear and clear with a concrete action in two countries: Syria and Iraq. It is possible that OCHA sees other necessities and wants to do something else, but it was an objective with two elements. I'm glad to hear about Syria. That is real news today, which is a group more supportive of the government's action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u62	Mr Minister, it is evident that today it is bon ton to misunderstand people. I will not come back to Mr Van Hees' question. I defended him once, and I won't make a habit of it either. We have indeed voted against this military intervention in Syria. One of the reasons was that we felt that the political conditions and the political plan to be included in such a military intervention were not on the table. Today, when we make the bilan, we notice that this is still the case. I have presented to you a whole range of possible initiatives that Belgium could support when it comes to political reconstruction, not emergency aid. Belgium hardly does anything in that area. I will inform you, but if I am not mistaken, Central Emergency Response Fund is not the fund I mean, the fund that uses the funds to support local Syrian aid organisations. That point is more important than it seems because 75% of humanitarian actions in Syria are just being carried out by those local organisations. It is those local organisations that need to be supported and helped. I also had a question about Raqqa. What if the Kurds take Raqqa? So how will the coalition act? It's strategically interesting to look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u63	Are you for or against military intervention in Raqqa? I don't understand anymore. You're asking me to do something...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u64	It's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u65	... and a few sentences ago, you said you were against it. Are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u66	Mr Reynders, can you understand that some politicians want to have a fair intellectual debate and understand an issue and a Belgian position?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u67	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u68	Can you understand such a political debate, or is it always the same with you? I want an analysis. Do you have an answer to that or not? You may not have an answer. Then that is also striking for the Belgian attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u69	Mr De Vriendt, I know your group, I know your reasoning. I have a lot of doubts. You're asking us to do something about Raqqa. What about the Kurds in Raqqa? That's what you asked, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u70	I didn't ask to do anything about Raqqa.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u71	Hey, bon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u72	I ask you: what will be the position of the international coalition if the Kurds take Raqqa? We support the Kurds at the moment. What will the international coalition do? Are we going to continue with this support, yes or no? I'm asking you an analytical question. Is it possible for you to answer that or do you have no idea of an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u73	Yeah, it's possible. But I stand by my response, Mr De Vriendt. You're asking to do something about Raqqa. But what can we do? In theory, I can say that I am thinking of this or that, but we will not intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u74	It would not be a bad thing if you were to enter into the analytical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u75	No. No.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u76	I'm asking a question that experts are asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u77	No. I know your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u78	...how will the inter...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u79	No. I know your group, sir. A specific question...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u80	But, Mr Reynders, if you debate this way with your colleagues at international level...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u81	Yes, I need your working method...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u82	It is very striking the way in which you answer my analytical question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u83	It's not an analytical question, there's a conflict in Raqqa.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u84	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u85	Yes, voilà, that is your group. Either it is possible to follow you, or it is not, and it is an analytical question. I say to you: we can only say something about Raqqa if Belgium intervenes militaryly in Syria. Without it, we have no influence. No influence! You can keep saying: we are against all military interventions, but we must do something politically. In order to do something politically, Mr De Vriendt, we must also be present with military action. And as for your question...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u87	Yes, we will proceed, within the coalition, with our military action. I have already given an answer to Mr Dallemagne. We call on all regions to move towards an inclusive system after military action. With the Kurds or with others, that's always the same. We will ask, within the coalition, whether we can find an inclusive mechanism for managing that city. Not one community against another. In order to do so, we must first sit around the table and, in order to sit around the table, we must take military action. That's the contradiction, as far as you're concerned. You always ask to do a lot of things, but without real capacity to sit around the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic709x.u88	I'll try one more time. I would like to make it clear that our Foreign Minister cannot therefore answer the question of what the international coalition will do with the military support we are now giving to the Kurds when the Kurds will regain Raqqa and be threatened by Assad. Then there is a problematic situation. I don't have to explain that to you, do I? Who's the Secretary of State here? You do realize the possible problem, don't you? Your answer is that we will go to an inclusive story with the Kurds and support them. My question is military. What will happen if the Kurds retake Raqqa? What will the international coalition do if Raqqa is recaptured by the Kurds and if the Kurds are threatened by Assad? That's a legitimate question, isn't it? You don't have an answer. I'll write that down. I note that you do not have an answer to that geostrategic question. Well, use the vacation to think about that. It won't be long before the problem rises.
