ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u1	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, at the request of the Brussels Region, Beliris - for whom you are responsible - has become the owner of the entire project for the construction of a new metro line which aims to eventually connect the north to the south of the capital. It is no less than five kilometres of tunnel to dig, seven new stations to build and therefore as many public spaces to rethink and re-engineer with an estimated budget of 1.8 billion euros. As you told me in response to a written question in November 2016, 17 surveys have already been conducted in the North of the Region. Beliris is reportedly in the process of filing an application for a town planning permit. As the collective "Imagine Colignon" pointed out in the press on 22 March, this deposit takes place "without citizen participation nor architectural contests, nor debate with civil society, nor consultation with the actors of urban development". This collective thinks of the regional agency perspective.brussels or the master architect, both in charge in Brussels of the articulation of citizen participation and, above all, of the improvement of the quality of the projects of the future public spaces. Hence my questions, Deputy Prime Minister. When will the application for a town planning permit be submitted by Beliris to the competent Brussels regional authorities? When is the first shot of a shoveler scheduled? Were Brussels and the master architect involved in the drafting of this permit? If not, how do you envisage in the future involving them in the follow-up to this project? Information sessions for local residents have already been held last autumn, as you said, but does Beliris intend to launch a genuine participatory process in consultation with the regional and municipal administrations concerned, in order to involve local civil society in the redevelopment of the seven public spaces concerned? If so, how? Does Beliris intend to split the infrastructure part, namely tunnels, of the surface planning part of the public spaces of this market in the long term, in order to enable citizens to participate? Finally, are architectural competitions envisaged for the seven planned stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u2	Mr Hellings, before I answer the questions you have just covered, I just want to correct one of the elements in the text, in any case your question. The estimated budget for the works of the north metro project is not 1.8 billion euros but, according to the preliminary draft of the study office, 953 million euros. The amount of 1.8 billion is an amount which also takes over the part carried out by STIB (transformation of the tram network into metro between the Albert and Gare du Nord stations). It's another part of the project. With regard to the application for a planning permit, we expect the regional government to validate Beliris' proposal. According to the information available, this validation will not be delayed, which will allow Beliris to file applications for urban planning permits in the course of the summer with the urban authorities of the Brussels-Capital Region. In order to respond to urban planning regulations, this application for urban planning permits includes not only Beliris' proposals for the tunnel, the depot and the stations, but also a proposal to integrate the emergences of these structures into the public space. To this end, the licence application includes the redevelopment of public spaces above the stations. The start of this work should take place in 2019, subject to obtaining the urban planning permit and the proper conduct of public procurement procedures. The preparation of this application for urban planning permits took place in close consultation with the municipalities concerned, STIB, Brussels Environment, SIAMU and the regional authorities responsible for urban planning. Perspective.brussels and the master architect were consulted. At the information sessions that took place last autumn, a group of citizens called for a genuine participatory process to be carried out in the development of public spaces. In view of the length of the administrative procedures and the work still to be carried out before the redevelopment of public spaces can take place, i.e. not before the end of the next regional legislature, we have decided, in consultation with the relevant regional and municipal authorities, to launch a participatory process for the development of public spaces. At the end of these processes, applications for an amending permit will be filed, if any. On the other hand, it is not envisaged to launch architectural competitions for the stations. As regards the allocation of the various works contracts and, in particular, the division of public spaces in the infrastructure part, no decision has so far been taken by Beliris or STIB. We will, of course, continue the ongoing proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u3	Minister, I am used to asking you about matters that fall within your other jurisdiction. But the one that is being discussed today is one of your most exciting skills, since it is a matter of renovating public spaces for the benefit of the Brussels people. Now, you and I have this question at heart. The project will be long, perilous and an undeniable source of nuisance for many residents, in order to improve mobility in the long term, especially in the north of Brussels. This will generate a lot of opposition. Indeed, no one wants to hear the noise of the hammer-picker while he is in his garden or in his apartment for several weeks. We're gonna have to connect. I hear that citizen participation initiatives are being considered, which is very positive. I therefore encourage you to continue your efforts in this direction. At this stage, the architectural competition is not envisaged. Let me remind you of the very interesting precedent of Place Flagey for which there was first a participatory process at which the inhabitants communicated their requests. There was then an architectural competition in which these applications were considered. In my view, in order to succeed in a project as important as that of the metro and above all that of the public spaces of the seven stations that will emerge after it, an architectural project is necessary. Moreover, since this is a long-term project that will go beyond the regional and federal legislatures, the eventual split of the two markets would allow us to envisage the establishment of the stations in a participatory, creative way for the benefit of all Brusselsers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u4	Mr Vice-Prime Minister, the Minister of Budget of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, in response to questions put to him on 13 April last in the French-speaking Parliament, said that his government no longer wished to cover the cost of borrowing EUR 531,000 per year and the operating costs related to the management of the Pathé Palace building, strategically located on the new pedestrianist wanted by the City of Brussels and, for several years, carried by Beliris. After spending the astronomical sum of EUR 16 million for its renovation, to no avail, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation seems bogged down in the budgetary meanderings and now runs, like a hen without a head, towards all the bodies able to carry out the finalisation of this important cultural project. For example, it initially sought to negotiate an emphyteotic transfer to the City of Brussels – in vain – and then to the Brussels-Capital Region, and then to the COCOF, but all these institutions rejected its proposal. Minister Flahaut, in charge of the budget at the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, assured you that he would soon want to meet you in your capacity as minister in charge of Beliris to "make sure that the Pathé Palace can remain in the public fold". You are definitely the firefighter of all Brussels projects that take the water! Have you met the Minister of Budget of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and what have you been able to answer him? Does Beliris envisage a full or partial investment in this project by taking over this building? By what legal means? Are you planning to join this building in the future project to refurbish the boulevards of the centre of Brussels by pedestrian, of which Beliris is the main contractor, at the request of the City of Brussels? Do you see opportunities for integration and synergies, knowing that this building, if not reassigned, would be such a gaping scar in the heart of the tourist and historic city centre of our beautiful city?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u5	Mr Hellings, I was indeed contacted by Minister Flahaut. I assume we're talking about the same person. This is André Flahaut for me. In your question, you wrote his name like that of Jean-Jacques Flahaux. That is probably because he is your colleague permanently; I think he is the same person.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u6	You'll excuse me to Mr. Flahaux with "x."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u7	To whomever you want! As far as the Pathé Palace is concerned, funding of €2,850,000 was obtained for this initiative by Beliris in the 10th amendment, which was valid for the years 2008, 2009 and 2010. This agreement was conditional. The decision of amendment 10 was subject to the resolutory condition of the transfer of the property of the Pathé Palace to the Region or the City of Brussels, in order to satisfy the bicommunal character of space. This was confirmed at the time by the Minister-President of the Brussels Region, Charles Picqué, in a letter. The French Community started the renovation process without taking into account the financing of Beliris, since the resolutory condition had not been fulfilled. In a 10bis amendment, the project was withdrawn, and the money was allocated to something else. I have had various contacts on this subject since I held the presidency of Beliris, i.e. since October 2014, first at the initiative of the workers' ankles of the Pathé Palace project. Secondly, my colleagues concerned with the Government of the French Community, the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region and even the Flemish Government, since bicommunal solutions were being sought, contacted me. To date, there is no real will to fulfil the resolutory condition of 2008 and therefore no concrete request for Beliris' intervention in this context. I join you in the fact that the Pathé Palace is important, because of its location, for the boulevards of the center, but I have not heard, so far, about any project in connection with the pedestrianization decided by the city and with the redevelopment carried out by Beliris. As long as it is owned by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation as it is today, Beliris can only wish the best to the actors of the project without being directly concerned. As I said to Minister Flahaut, I am of course still available for a meeting, during which we could consider returning to a bi-communal solution, probably as part of the lifting of the condition set out a few years ago. However, until now, this project has been managed directly by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, without our having to intervene. I repeat, I am always open to considering other solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u8	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for these interesting answers. I did not know this agreement not met in 2008. I think that this emblematic case, in this emblematic place, requires work involving all the public authorities. Unfortunately, according to the information given, I find that the Wallonia-Brussels Federation has advanced alone and has not benefited from the means of its policy. If there is an urgent need to make every effort to operate this public space, the pedestrian, it is the same that this so strategic building in this place quickly finds, according to your shared view, a bicommunal assignment, as has always been the case. And if we can find a solution, in which all those involved, including Beliris, who you are in charge of, can play a role in a perspective of urban and cultural animation of this strategic place, it would be welcome. Thank you for your answers and we will continue to follow the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u9	Thank you, Mr. Hellings. I note that this file is of interest even to the Liegeois, because with the Grignoux, we invest in the redevelopment of old cinemas in Liège and Namur. There is even a mobilization to help the Brusselsers but the file is not moving forward and it is a bit hopeless. Let us unite our wills!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u10	Madam Chair, Minister, the Brussels pedestrian will undergo significant development work in the years to come. In any case, I hope so for our Belgian companies and the use of our raw materials. This work, whose planning permit was requested in early 2017, could begin this month in June and would take place in several phases. The importance of this project is a challenge as much as an opportunity. This type of construction site, of such size, is an opportunity to enhance the know-how of Belgian workers and the quality of our raw materials. So why this specific question about the blue stone problem? That's because I'm an abhorrent of economic development in the beautiful city of Soignies, where we have two quarries, especially of blue stone, which are deeply concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u11	Beautiful color!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u12	It's a beautiful color. I can join you on this aspect. It's a beautiful color on the stone! Workers are also concerned. It is a sector that is currently in a state of suffering because there is increased competition, in particular with Chinese stone and Irish stone. I will not go back to the quality that is not the same. It is the whole sector that is concerned. Work sites like this are important economic opportunities. There are not tens and tens of them in Belgium. Minister, given the importance of local thinking, of short circuits, of environmental protection in an economy that is globalised and involves responsible political choices, could you take stock of the issue of the award of public contracts for the construction of Brussels pedestrians? Is it planned to use the Belgian blue stone in the construction site of the Brussels pedestrianist, according to the phase of the planned work? In general, what place was left to Belgian knowledge in this vast project and in the award of the various public contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u13	Madam President, Mrs Winckel, I understand and share your concern for economic development in Belgium and its different regions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are working in the context of public procurement, for which I also remain attentive to compliance with the award rules. The redevelopment of the boulevards in the centre is an important project for the Brussels-Capital region. In addition to the work on sealing at the De Brouckère station currently under way, it includes the complete renovation of façade to façade between Rue Saint-Michel and Place Fontainas. This contract was split into three tranches and notified to the Viabuild contractor on 14 October 2016 following a European-level public tender procedure. To date, only the first slice of this market including the sealing of De Brouckère station and the redevelopment of Saint-Michel Street, De Brouckère Square and Anspach Boulevard to including Grétry Street has been ordered from the company. As long as the town planning permit for the redevelopment of the boulevards is issued within the next few days, work on the redevelopment of the boulevards will be able to start in the continuity of the work on the waterproofing of the metro station. The specifications of the public works contract, published in December 2015 and for which the contract was awarded in June 2016, provide for the laying of blue stone meeting strict technical criteria and defined by the Centre scientifique et technique de la construction (CSTC) in the brochure NIT 220 (technical information note). In accordance with the requests of the City of Brussels and according to what the study office has drawn up in the drafting of its proposed market, without entering into the technical details of this standard, according to my information, Belgian careers already have a UBATC approval attesting that they meet the technical requirements set out in the said technical information note NIT 220. The works contract was notified to Viabuild. During the implementation of the contract, the contractor shall propose, within time limits compatible with those of the construction site, blue stones meeting the requirements of the specifications, which shall be strictly checked by the officials of the administration. Finally, with regard to the implementation of this project, I confirm that the company concerned is Belgian and that, when submitting its offer, it stated that it would not use materials from outside the European Union. Similarly, it submitted a list of potential subcontractors, all of whom are Belgian. In accordance with the regulations and civil law applicable to subcontracts, however, this undertaking is free to choose other subcontractors meeting the requirements of the specifications. We will therefore remain very attentive to compliance with technical conditions and, of course, with the law on public procurement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u14	Minister, thank you for your very precise answer. I don't doubt it. I know that you and the City of Brussels, as the minister in charge of Beliris, have been clear from the beginning by showing your willingness to honour our know-how and Belgian raw materials. As I knew that we were in the middle of contracting, I allowed myself to come back to this issue because of some concern. I am pleased that a Belgian company has won the market and that the subcontractors are Belgian. The only flat is the possibility of using raw materials from the European Union. We know that there is competition with Irish blue stone. However, some geological characteristics allow the stone extracted from our basement to be used. I draw your attention to this aspect, because the pedestrian will be a showcase of our know-how and our raw materials. Therefore, it would be aberrant to find a stone from another country. With regard to revenue for the State, the City of Soignies, from which I come, had commissioned a study from economist Philippe Defeyt. This revealed a difference in tax revenues, since the foreign blue stone is only subject to an import tax, while when a Belgian company is concerned, employment is created here. In this case, we are talking about a dozen jobs in several years. In other words, the result is a return of money to the State. These elements seem to me to have to be taken into account, while obviously respecting the rules governing public procurement. I am counting on you, Minister, to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic671x.u15	In the absence of Mr Pivin, his question No 15942 was transformed into a written question.
