ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u1	Mr Senesael, thank you for assuming the office of President. I think it is better for me to ask my question from here rather than from my bench because the roles are different. Madam Secretary of State, I have tabled this question following an article in the newspaper L'Echo that concerns your policy and deals with "legal reversals". In any case, you will admit that L'Echo, formerly known as the Echo de la Bourse, is not a press agency of the PS. We agree. It is an absolutely neutral and independent press. And Mr. Martin Buxant is also well known on radio as an observer. I therefore noted that Mr. Buxant spoke of various legal setbacks in relation to Francophone personalities. He's targeting three. I think there have been specific questions about Mr Mettens' situation. I asked you about Lydian's attorney's office in his day. You gave me some partial elements of the costs and tasks assigned to this office of lawyers, especially in relation to the Mettens case but not exclusively. There is the whole problem of Alain Hubert and the polar station, but others that I ask you about it, and will do it again, Mr. Senesael and Cheron in particular. I don't want to get into the contents of these cases. More recently, there has also been the case of Michel Draguet. My question is essentially about the fact that three Francophone personalities are in the eye of the cyclone. The lowest estimate of the costs of these three proceedings is EUR 1 million in legal fees and legal fees. I don't want to make you a trial of intent, but these three files require a specific analysis, on a case-by-case basis, using more specific questions. Madam Secretary of State, do you confirm the sum of almost EUR 1 million spent by the Belgian State in legal proceedings? Can you divide it between the Mettens, Draguet and Hubert cases? You are a federal secretary of state and conflict with French-speaking personalities. How do you react to this question? You represent the whole country and the science policy. When I talk about the costs of justice, it is without prejudice to court decisions that could lead to damage and that would lead the state to incur even greater costs. What are the legal and judicial perspectives of these cases? What are your motivations? There is a feeling in an independent journalist from L'Echo and Bel RTL that there is a situation of legal setbacks on the part of the taxpayer which is detrimental to everyone, and certainly to scientific policy. In his article, he points out that with this sum, twenty researchers could be hired for a year!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u2	Mr President, Mr Delizée, the amounts published in the press are excessive. The Belgian State paid EUR 569 893.76 in legal fees to defend it in the numerous proceedings (seventeen) all initiated by the IPF, with one exception. Litigation with the IPF began on 5 December 2013 when Mr Mettens, then President of BELSPO, filed a complaint against Mr Alain Hubert for conflict or illegal taking of interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u3	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u4	I repeat that the dispute with the IPF began on December 5, 2013. When Mr Mettens, then President of BELSPO, filed a complaint against Mr Hubert for conflict or illegal taking of interests. It is at this very moment that the litigation begins.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u5	As far as Mr Mettens is concerned, I thought it was his own business during this Parliament. I misunderstood, either!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u6	I'm going on. The proceedings initiated by Mr Mettens against the Belgian State amount to €53,951.19 in legal fees. In total, this is not a sum of almost EUR 1 million which was paid by the Belgian State, but more precisely EUR 623 844.95.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u7	Earlier, you said EUR 569,000, now we are EUR 623,000; I do not understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u8	This is the evolution of the amount since 5 December 2013 - procedure initiated by Mr Mettens. Now we come to a total amount of fees paid by the Belgian State in legal fees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u9	For all three cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u10	As I said, this includes five ongoing files with the IPF and two ongoing with Mr. Mettens. In addition, there are still other litigation files. But this is the amount that the Belgian State paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u11	Perhaps there are still invoices in progress?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u12	A total of 623 844.95 euros. The Belgian State has ongoing disputes with the International Polar Foundation against which Mr Mettens has lodged a complaint. Both disputes are fundamentally different in nature. The IPF is not part of the administration but is a private company, while litigation with Mr. Mettens is part of the usual administrative litigation. The dispute with Mr. Mettens is the only one in which an officer, also a Francophone, Mr. Delcourt, is involved. He was appointed as his successor to BELSPO's presidency. Mr Mettens brought an application for suspension and annulment against the appointment of Mr Delcourt. It is absolutely false that I would refuse dialogue. I'm always ready to talk to the people involved. I've done it several times. The members of the federal government are each competent for their department, covering the whole country, regardless of the linguistic role to which the officials responsible for implementing this policy belong. Giving guarantees of any kind to agents of another linguistic role than the minister in question is, therefore, not on the agenda, and would even be illegal. I repeat here that Mr. Delcourt, a member of the Francophone linguistic role, has been appointed President of the Science Policy PPS. In conclusion, Mr. Delizée, I find it sad that you wish to divert these painful dossiers to the personal and community sphere. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I'll take your numbers back. I have seen that the prices were rising in the course of your response and I note that €623,000 has been paid to date for five cases, but invoices have not yet been received or honoured. We should see what Mr. Buxant's source is, who's talking about a million dollars. If the €623,000 has actually been paid, this means that an outstanding amount is going to inflate these sums. It's not nothing! On the Community side, I have very much tempered my intervention in relation to the text of my question, because I do not want to make you a trial of intent. Records should be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Some colleagues follow that of the polar station. Mr. Draguet's case is another case. We have already mentioned that of Mr Mettens. You say you're in dialogue with him, but I have the impression that he was already out before he even started. Anyway, that's what he says. We note that the result of your policy is that, of the four appeals, subject to future decisions of the Council of State, two were won by Mr Mettens. To my knowledge, Mr. Delcourt's appointment was broken. It will of course be necessary to see what follow-up is given to this complicated dossier. The initial error has led to all these judicial expenses and to a legal, administrative and political imbroglio. We will naturally have to wait for the decisions that will be taken, but I would remind you that your choice to appoint Mr Delcourt on a definitive basis has been broken by the Council of State. I remain concerned about the expenses resulting from your policy. Admit that I have left aside Community considerations. Three Francophones are involved, but I have not gone any further. I am a free reviewer and therefore I believe that the issues should be considered one by one. That's what I tried to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u14	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the New York Public Library has recently decided to make available to the public, via the Internet, copies of as many as 180,000 manuscripts, maps, photographs, scores, lithographs, postcards and other images. Free of rights, the digitized contents of these archives can thus be reused creatively by the entire population. This release from the sources is an opportunity for the arts, as well as for schools, associations and developers of free applications for the community. It must be said that the New York example does not lack interest, since the catalogue thus released contains, among other things, correspondences of personalities such as Thomas Jefferson, photographs of immigrants to Ellis Island or manuscripts of writers such as Whitman or Thoreau. This case is in fact no exception in the landscape of public institutions, since this type of action has already been carried out under other skies. For example, to cite only one example, the Hamboug Museum has made the digitized copy of works whose copyright has expired available for free download. In view of the major interest of this policy of citizens' access to the historical and cultural heritage, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you tell us if federal scientific institutions are following a similar approach to the one just exposed to you? If so, can you provide us with a general statement of the situation? Is there any room for reflection at your service level to improve the accessibility of all citizens to rights-free documentary sources and, therefore, to enable them to be reused creatively? Are projects already selected for 2017? All this would clearly contribute to the so-called Open Data effort, which is considered a priority by this government. Are there any partnerships under consideration with private sector actors, particularly large companies active in cultural sponsorship, to support this type of project and thus reduce the fiscal impact for the taxpayer? I thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the answers you would like to give to these various questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u15	Mr President, the FSEs, which have the task of opening up research to the public, are currently providing a significant documentary offer available on the Internet. To this end, the website of the General Archives of the Kingdom (www.search.arch.be) has since 2013 provided free access to millions of digitized archival documents. The Royal Library promotes the dissemination of these digitized collections through its own broadcasting channels, such as OPAC, Belgica and BelgicaPress, or through other digital portals such as europeana.eu, cartesius.be, Europeana Regia, libliotheca-laureshamensis, RISM, etc. Several MRBAB catalogues and collections are online and offer descriptions of works of art, books, archives, documents and sometimes, direct access to a digital image. Other digitisation projects are also underway in the framework of Digit03 2014-2018, i.e. in total, about 122,000 images are being produced and will soon be available. The provision of rights-free digital heritage makes it possible to consult the information and its exploitation in the context of various works. However, this information cannot be reused recreationally, as neither metadata nor scanned copies of the image are downloadable. Digital images may, however, be obtained for remuneration. Federal governments may impose conditions for the re-use of documents by third parties or refuse to disclose them. In this case, the individual and the undertakings are entitled to appeal to the Commission for Access and Reuse of Administrative Documents. This commission was set up with the Internal SPF by the Act of 4 May 2016 transposing European Directives 2003-98/EC and 2013-37/EU. A new draft royal decree is expected in order to lay down the implementing rules for the creative reuse of these documents. FSEs are made aware of the Open Data problem, as demonstrated by various initiatives taken in this context. Consultations were held with representatives of the Department of Administrative Simplification (the Chancellery) and Fedict. Workshops are created with representatives of the Open Data Task Force, operating on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister, responsible for the Digital Agenda and the Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification for more technical and legal aspects. Training on the re-use of public information is being set up, as well as participation in the Management Committee of 20 January this year, on the transfer of intellectual property rights from scientific staff in the context of the future policy of open access.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for this relatively comprehensive assessment of what has already been achieved. I take note of the new initiatives mentioned and the ongoing projects, in particular with your colleague in charge of the Digital Agenda. I would be happy to come back to you, once the projects are more developed. I encourage you on this path. I know that this is one of the priorities set by this government and I hope that these initiatives will produce a result and a balance to be defended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u17	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the ESA Ministerial Conference took place on December 1 and 2. The previous report of the conference states that ESA is on track for the implementation of its ongoing programmes, but reaffirms the need to implement the Inter-federal Space Agency to do so. Nevertheless, the report also states that the breakdown of space activities among the three regions following the 2014 Ministerial Conference was no longer sufficient. It wasn't a surprise. It was agreed that the December 2016 ESA Ministerial Conference would correct this imbalance. Madam Secretary of State, can you give me a feedback from the ESA Ministerial Conference in December 2016? What are the main lines of action? Has the breakdown of space activities among the three Regions been corrected? What is the current situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, following the decisions taken in Naples in 2012, only a limited number of issues were raised at the ESA Ministerial Conference in Luxembourg in 2014. This conference gave strategic priority to the conclusion of the agreement on the development of the new European Ariane 6 rocket. This project focused on the space industries in the centre and south of the country, because of their long tradition in the field of launchers and, in particular, their long-standing contribution to the successive Ariane programmes. Since there were no other themes, among those dealt with in Luxembourg, which could really generate interest for companies in the north of the country, it was agreed that, at the next ESA ministerial conference, the imbalance between the regions, generated by the commitments agreed in Luxembourg and made unavoidable, would be compensated. The ministerial conference in question took place on 1 and 2 December 2016 in Lucerne. During the course of the Conference, a wide range of programmes was proposed in the various areas of the space sector. In the spirit of compensation mentioned above, the focus was on small missions based on the Proba platform. In particular, the Altius mission under Belgian leadership was confirmed, as well as the preparation of a succession to the Proba-V mission. The skills associated with these missions and their instrumentation are mainly located in the north of the country. In addition, significant investments in telecoms help to maintain strong expertise in the north and contribute, in particular, to the development of the newly established Thales Alenia Space branch in Leuven. This does not mean, however, that research in other fields and the interests of other parts of the country have been neglected, in particular through the activities provided for in the Earth observation, space exploration and space science programmes. The technological development (GSTP) and scientific research (PRODEX) traditionally appreciated by all actors in the country have received the same degree of support. In addition, the centre and the south of the country will continue to rely, following the major investments adopted in Luxembourg, on the continuation of the necessary support for launchers. Finally, I personally negotiated in Lucerne with the Director General of ESA, Mr Wörner, to strengthen educational activities and develop cybersecurity skills on the ESA site in Redu so that existing synergies with local authorities could be consolidated. The implementation of these decisions will therefore make it possible to balance, over the next five years, the industrial return of Belgium's investments to ESA in the three regions of the country while meeting concrete needs at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u19	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed and comprehensive answer. We will, of course, come back to the matter with a view to being informed about the development of this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, new changes have recently been made to your plan to reform federal scientific institutions. Indeed, it would appear that, following a meeting with the various directors general of the royal museums and other scientific institutions under federal control, it would have been decided to move from two to four clusters. In this regard, I quote from the information provided to the general public: "These entities, which are autonomous in relation to the State, will each group together several scientific institutions. Objective: to facilitate synergies and economies of scale. The clusters will have legal personality, a board of directors and management bodies (...). In concrete terms, an 'art' cluster will bring together the Royal Museums of Fine Arts (MRBAB at Mont des Arts in Brussels) and two federal institutions located at the 50th anniversary: the Royal Museum of Art and History and the Institute of Artistic Heritage. A'space' cluster will bring together the three institutions of the Uccle plateau: the Observatory, the Meteorological Institute and the Institute of Space Aeronomy. A third cluster will link the Royal Library (Albertine) to the State Archives. Finally, the fourth will consist of the Museum of Natural Sciences and the Museum of Central Africa in Tervuren." In the light of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm the scenario of these four clusters as announced in the press and, if necessary, provide us with an outline of them here? In concrete terms, what are the advantages of this doubling of the poles, particularly in terms of organisational but also structural and of course in terms of public finances? Secondly, what are the contacts to date with the Federal Council for Science Policy? Has the draft been submitted to the Committee for its opinion? Third, what is the status of consultations on this issue with representatives of relevant federal agencies? Are new meetings planned to refine the scenario? Finally, what is the timetable for the adoption of the final plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u21	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, when you presented your 2017 Policy Note, you pointed out that you have conducted an important consultation on BELSPO's reform projects with the Directors and Advisory Boards of the services concerned. You added that you would continue this dialogue. However, the echo received from the other side of the discussion table is different. On 11 June 2016, Mr Draguet, director of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts, said in the press "to be afraid of the policy led by the Secretary of State and the brutal manner in which it conducts, without consultation." More recently, in December 2016, Draguet said, during an interview on Bel RTL, that he had not had the opportunity to dialogue with you and had only met twice, while you have been in office for more than two years. He's still blaming you for your way of working. The seriousness of his reproach is reflected in his criminal complaint against you for harassment and coalition of civil servants. As a reminder, Mr. Draguet believes that he is the target of a ministerial harassment aimed at preventing him from carrying out his mission calmly. Since then, you have given Michel Draguet an "excellent" evaluation for his management of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium. The management of a set of museums is extensive and includes maintaining good working relationships with its appropriate minister. Madam Secretary of State, if there is a criminal complaint, there is a problem. If Mr. Draguet's management is considered to be excellent, perhaps yours is not satisfactory. As you prepare to reform BELSPO, I find these accusations very worrying. At a time when the collective intelligence and buy-in of BELSPO teams is crucial to defining and carrying out the restructuring, I am concerned about the method. As you say you are conducting consultations, the trials you are being tried dispel the assurances you give us. Madam Secretary of State, how do you respond to the criticisms that are made of your "how to function"? Do you intend to change your management of FSEs? What do you intend to do to restore the working relationship and trust with Mr. Draguet? Do you intend to continue the staff member's duties once his or her term of office expires on April 30, 2017, following his or her excellent assessment? Can you give us an inventory of the consultations you have conducted on your BELSPO reform project, as well as an account of these consultations? I hope to have an answer to my questions as well as, I hope, a question about how to deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u22	First of all, as to how I operate, I can assure you that it always remains the same without exception, regardless of the Director General of a scientific or federal institution. Their first contact person is their supervisor, the president of the Science Policy PPS. My door always stays open to them. I have met them several times, whether in a collective or individual interview, formal or informal. I systematically lend them an attentive ear and dialogue with them. I never behaved otherwise with the general manager of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts. I visited him at his institution and received him at my office. Regularly, I receive letters from him and answer them. My collaborators are equally available to him and have spoken to him on several occasions. He also attends the monthly meetings of the PPS Steering Committee of which the Directors General are members. Through our ongoing and open dialogue, we are advancing the empowerment of FSEs and the modernization of science programs. I note that the director general of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium considers it necessary to communicate his opinion about my policy and about my person in the media, but the other directors abstain from this behavior. That is why I am taking a stand against publications in the press. This applies to the complaint that the Director General of MRBAB allegedly brought against the President of the Science Policy PPS and myself. Neither the President nor I have been officially informed by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Accordingly, I do not wish to make any statements on this subject at this time. The six directors were evaluated by the Chair of the Science Policy PPS. This is the operational task of the President, since all six Directors have successfully implemented most of the agreed objectives. They received the "excellent" mention from the President and I myself have ratified this assessment. Following this final mention, the callers automatically returned to him. In any case, I am pleased that the Director General in question agreed to the note with his nine colleagues with a common vision for the empowerment of FSEs. In addition, he was also present in the discussions prior to the drafting of the note and did not make any criticisms in my presence on 10 January. For my part, I am continuing my work of empowering FSEs in collaboration with the Directors General and on the basis of their unanimous opinions. On this subject, I also discussed again with the latter on 7 February. They continued to develop the idea of the four autonomous entities in collaboration with experts from the Science Policy PPS. Working groups organized by entities will follow up and address the following issues: what will the unborn entity's management model ideally look like? Organization chart, nature and position of common services, direction, number and level of leadership functions, etc. The definition of the legal status adapted to the desired structure, the list of existing support services, and the establishment of an analysis of common services on the basis of this list to clearly determine what already exists and what needs to be created. I await their conclusions by the end of this month. I will evaluate the latter and submit them to the Scientific Council of the FSEs and the Federal Council of Scientific Policy. I would also like to inform you that on the basis of the note by the Directors of the FSEs, I have resumed consultations on this subject with the government partners. They have also received an overview of the many consultations I have conducted and they have told me of their confidence in the direction I have taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u23	I therefore note that the work is being done in four working groups and that you are waiting for conclusions. The latter will be submitted to both the Federal Science Policy Council and federal agencies. For the time being, the Federal Council for Science Policy has not yet been consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u24	Members of the Board have been consulted several times. We are currently focusing our efforts on the four clusters, as this was a request from the directors. We will then discuss the vision again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u25	When will you get the results and when will they be submitted to these different advices? What timing do you expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u26	The timing is tight: the deadline is expected in the coming weeks and months, before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u27	I take note of a number of your statements. Some of them leave me puzzled. I'm asking you to confirm them to me. All managers received an "excellent" rating. De facto, they're going to be reintroduced. You declare that you have had ongoing consultations with different operators and have forwarded these consultation documents to your colleagues. Could you give me an inventory of the consultations on your BELSPO reform project? Can we have this back-planning of the consultations? I'm waiting for your project with a business plan, because I haven't heard of the existence of this kind of document.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, I wanted to assure myself of the future of the Euro Space Center, which, let us recall, is unique in the world and envied many countries, both in Asia and in Africa or in Europe. I would like to stress one thing: if it is unique in the world, we must be proud of it. It's something we've achieved, and I'd like to know if you're proud of it. What will be the future of this Euro Space Center? The Euro Space Center is the co-ownership of the Federal Science Policy, the Province of Luxembourg and the Intercommunal IDELUX. The creation of an agency on Belgian space policy and the dismantling of the Science Policy make me say that the Euro Space Center must remain a federal entity integrated into this agency. To date, however, there has been no reference to the Euro Space Center as part of this new space structure. We would not want the Euro Space Center to be forgotten about the restructuring of scientific policy and to end up oblivious. This set, it should be recalled, is an extraordinary tool for promoting Belgian space. It is an essential showcase to highlight not only industry but also federal research centres and universities. When you contact the many students who have visited it, you can see that it is the place where vocations, especially scientific ones, have manifested themselves. The Euro Space Center has also become today a centre for initiation and training that welcomes more than 64 nationalities, as part of its multimedia show A Space Odyssey, and young people of more than 34 nationalities who, from all over the world, arrive especially to live a one to six-day internship in areas as diverse and varied as astronaut training, astronomy, robotics, rockets and propulsion. These internships are unique opportunities to awaken interest and vocation for training and then scientific careers. At present, the Euro Space Center is no longer simply unique in Europe but in the world, thanks to the specificity and diversity of the products developed. Madam Secretary of State, what future do you see for the Euro Space Center as part of the restructuring of federal institutional activities in space? Will the shares of the Federal Science Policy in the Euro Space Center pass to the ISAB or will they have another destination?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u29	The State is not responsible for the Euro Space Center, it owns only part of the infrastructure. It is the IDELUX intercommunal group which is partly owned and responsible for the operation of ESC. In the framework of the ESA Ministerial Council of 5 December, Belgium confirmed a EUR 5 million support for the ESA centre in Redu for various activities related to education. This site will also become an Excellence of Science Security Centre for ESA. There is no formal link between the centre of Redu and the Euro Space Center. The Belgian State owns part of the infrastructure, not the Science Policy alone. I am not considering the transfer of Belgian shares to the Interfederal Space Agency of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u30	I take note of the statements made by the Secretary of State. I have taken note of the amount of five million allocated to the Euro Space Center. However, in the current climate, the question arises of the consolidation of this tool in Redu and of their actions. Madam Secretary of State, I will remain very attentive to all the opportunities that may develop and I take note of your options and the decisions that you will have to make. I have heard that, for the time being, there is no change, but I will remain vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u31	Mr President, I would point out that the EUR 5 million is intended for Redu and not for the Euro Space Center. Redu must become – which is not currently the case – a centre of excellence in Europe and globally in satellite security. This is a new approach during the negotiations in Lucerne last December. I should like to add this clarification because it seems to me that Mr de Lamotte cited the Euro Space Center as a beneficiary of the EUR 5 million and not Redu.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u32	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, summer is coming to an end on the Antarctic ice. This season is normally conducive to the use of the polar station, which has existed for nearly ten years. I still remind you – because you seem to forget it every time – that this station has not been built by the Belgian State, but by the International Polar Foundation, which you abuse every day. And I weigh my words! This polar station has been in existence since 2007-2008. I will not repeat all the history; unfortunately, we have already had the opportunity to discuss it several times here. But originally, this polar station was created through private initiatives. It was only subsequently the subject of an agreement with the Belgian State in a structure called "public-private partnership", which you also deny most of the time. This brief reminder leads me to evoke the waste we find ourselves in. As usual, I come here with a lot of enthusiasm to do my job as a parliamentarian but, unfortunately, with little hope. I already feel like I know your answers. But I'm still coming, because I'm passionate about this case. I recently read, Madam Secretary of State, not in the "bad" French-speaking press, but in the Dutch-speaking press, specifically in Het Belang van Limburg, an article about another polar station, named after a king rather than a princess, the King Baudouin Foundation. The author of this article explained the difficulties that are still linked in this country – there is a curse – to initiatives that are internationally recognized. I would remind you that here we have a zero-emission polar station, the only one on Antarctic territory that should be devoted to scientific research. The summer, I repeat, is ending there, like our winter here. There, summer is normally used to send scientists there. This was not the case this year because of you; it is your responsibility. If I ask the Secretary of State, I can't solve this mess. Over the months, in your policy, you have taken a number of decisions that contribute to the destruction of the reputation of our country, of the government, and I would also say what your party advocates, namely the goed bestuur. Your decisions, for months, have been broken by various court decisions. The President has asked you about all this costs in terms of judicial proceedings and in particular the State. Madam, by your action, by your decisions which have been broken on various occasions, both by a court of first instance and by the Court of Appeal or by the Council of State, you are going to fail. But we're going to fail. To make the most emblematic decision: a court decision obliges you – it is an obligation even though I know that there are others who sit on these court decisions – to appoint, Madam Secretary of State, the representatives of the Belgian State in the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat. It's an obligation! I am angry because I see that from month to month, not only do you refuse to do so, but also, you seek, through your advice, to save time and refuse to enforce these court decisions. As long as you have not done what is elementary, that is to say, respect the rule of law, which you have already been reminded of several times, we are unable to see a proper functioning, namely compliance with the rules that have been established and the contracts that have been signed. Pacta sunt servanda, often says your party president. You must not have heard it or understood it! Today, therefore, we are facing this disaster, this waste which is now beginning to be unfortunately known internationally with, I repeat, those scientists who are unable to go there to make international use of this zero-emission polar station, which we are proud of in principle. I still want to remind you of these different events: - a court of first instance had already ordered you to appoint the members of the Polar Secretariat; - the failure of the 2016 mission with a judicial officer who was mandated by the IPF (International Polar Foundation) and who found damage on the spot, - the failure of the campaign that you tried to climb this year with the help of the army; and we saw what it gave with a court decision that blocked the soldiers in Cape Town. They could not do this mission because it was carried out within a narrow legal framework. - suspicions - I have asked your colleague, the Minister of Defence and especially responsible for the Selor - about the regularity of the commitments of the people who were supposed to accompany the military. - and above all, for the 2016-2017 campaign, several scientists who would come from BELSPO were notified of the ban on making contact with the Polar Foundation on your order. In short, we have a flagship of research and we have a state that is bankrupt in relation to its obligations. I see in your boss a hyper-personalization. In a previous response, you stated that you did not intervene and were cautious about administration and a number of ongoing debates. But you do not deprive yourself of demonizing Mr Alain Hubert and the International Polar Foundation by leaks distilled in the Dutch-speaking press. In view of this, Madam Secretary of State, look also at what is said in the international press about this Polar Foundation and the work done by Mr Hubert and in relation to the fact that Belgium is recognized for this creation of the Polar Station. I would like to denounce all the policies that you are pursuing, and in particular that of discrediting the work that is being done and the respect for the acts that have been carried out with each other in this public-private partnership and above all your lack of willingness to mediate, Madam Secretary of State. Because beyond your refusal to appoint state representatives to the Polar Secretariat, you do not feel in any way in your head an ability to draw up, for example in an adversarial manner, this inventory to which justice requires you, and to ensure that there is, in an AISBL that you announce, a willingness to involve the Polar Foundation. No, every time, and I find that unacceptable, you are abounding in the direction that leads you to lose justice, because you do not respect the rule of law and the partnerships that have been concluded, particularly with the International Polar Foundation. I repeat, it was this Polar Foundation that built the station. It was with her that a partnership was concluded. Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Chairman, I will conclude this inquiry with a call for re-examination in this matter. Yes or no will you designate these people and contribute to creating, in the state in which you are, in the state in which the polar station is located, and in the state in which scientists are located, a situation where you can restore the hope of rebuilding things, and finally have a lasting solution for a station that should be a flagship for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u33	Mr de Lamotte, you have an inquiry and two questions. I invite you, if you wish to distinguish them, to place them one after the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, as Secretary of State for Scientific Policy, particularly in Antarctica, you have only one mission: to ensure research at these borders of the world. However, in 2016, you managed to spend more than 3 million euros on the polar station, without sending any researchers to the site. This failure is due to your judgment which has been proved to be wrong. In December 2015, the Council of State urged you to negotiate an agreement with the Polar Foundation. The court decision of 17 December 2016 announced the annulment of the royal decree of 10 August 2015. You had been warned, by us in particular, in the Committee on the Economy, already on February 17, 2016, that you were going straight into the wall. You preferred to insist and send the army to Antarctica rather than rehabilitate the Polar Secretariat and send scientists together with the IPF. This error of judgment is the key to the failure of the 2016-2017 BELARE mission. Misjudgement of judgment has wasted a lot of resources in Belgium. For the state, hundreds of thousands of euros in court fees – we talked about it just now. The three million euros of the Polar Secretariat, no spin-offs. Several hundred thousand euros for a doubling of the organisation of the same Secretariat within BELSPO. Tens of thousands of euros for an aborted Belgian army mission, which we have just mentioned. And the addition for the other parts is also salty. All these resources are less resources for scientific research, particularly in Antarctica. Madam Secretary of State, Antarctic research has suffered enough and I think it is time to work for it. The current situation is not very different from that of my fellow Members. Dallemagne and Cheron were portrayed on February 17, 2016 in the Economy Commission. And your plan to create an AISBL is the same. The countries and private partners you want to associate with this AISBL still refuse to do so, as long as the legal dispute with the IPF continues. In fact, the IPF continues to defend its interests while inviting you to negotiate with them. So you continue to refuse to negotiate with them. The creation of this AISBL you want is not moving forward. After a wasteful 2016 year, I wonder if the same failure will not occur in 2017. Antarctic research has suffered enough and the only way to unblock the situation is through negotiation with the Polar Foundation. Personally, I see only three issues to the problem of the Princess Elizabeth Polar Station, now state and IPF co-ownership. Either it is taken over 100% by the state; or it is taken over by the Polar Foundation; or you are negotiating a new partnership protocol between the state and the IPF. In all cases, it will be necessary to negotiate with the IPF, whether on the terms of a new protocol or on financial compensation for the nationalisation of the base. A pure and simple expropriation of the IPF, without compensation, would obviously bode well for any future potential partner of the Belgian state and for any economic decision of the federal government in relation to its policies. Madam Secretary of State, any solution requires negotiation with the IPF. But do you want some? Do you really want to do it? For months, you've been saying that you've been negotiating, and for months, the IPF has been saying that it hasn't entered into any negotiations. Is this a lack of will due to a new error of judgment? Is it because of the enmity and distrust of the Polar Foundation? Do you want to? I don't know. But I do think that the state must rise above conflicts in order to resolve them and not feed them by blocking situations. Madam Secretary of State, your mistakes in judgment in the past cost Belgium and science. The only way to unlock the situation is to negotiate with the IPF and you lack the ability or willingness to conduct this negotiation. If the government does not act quickly, I fear that history will repeat itself and that errors of judgment will continue? The waste of human, scientific and financial resources will continue and ultimately, the 2017–2018 mission will be another failure. Through this inquiry, Madam Secretary of State, I call on the government to negotiate with the IPF. Mr. Chairman, as the rule requires in inquiries, I bring a motion to the Prime Minister asking him to appoint a mediator to facilitate the negotiation of a new partnership between the International Polar Foundation and the government in order to ensure the pace of negotiations. I attach to my request for inquiry a motion which I table here and which I ask you to follow according to the norm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u35	I'm getting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u36	I have two supplementary questions, Mr. Chairman and the Secretary of State, because the news is continuing on this issue. Madam Secretary of State, following one of your interviews in L'Echo on 27 January and I quote: "We had planned to do a scientific mission to Antarctica this year but this is not possible because of the court decisions and therefore there is no Belgian mission that has been able to leave and we regret it. It's not my choice, it's a court decision that comes out of the trial of the International Polar Foundation." In addition, when you presented your policy note in December 2016, you said that it was still possible to send scientists before the end of the season. If it were possible in December, it should be as possible in early 2016. We could have done it faster. We had drawn your attention to the situation and I would remind you that the Council of State had urged to negotiate an agreement with the IPF. The court decision of 17 December 2016 announced the annulment of the royal decree of 10 August 2015. I would therefore like to ask you to re-specify a number of elements. Do you recognize that you could have sent scientists to the site this year if you had collaborated with the IPF, as recommended by the Council of State? The answer can be simple: yes or no. Do you recognize that, in the interest of sending a scientific mission for the 2016-17 season, you have shown bad judgment by preferring to send a second mission from the army instead of negotiating with the IPF? This is, in addition to the inquiry, two quick questions that I would have liked to have been able to raise. But I have a third question, because it was again mentioned after the filings of the arrests. You saw, like me, an interview with a glaciologist from the ULB, in the journal Science Mag, in which it is said that the Belgian government expressly prohibited any Belgian scientist from going to the station. And we know, moreover, by the scientists concerned, that BELSPO expressly ordered Belgian scientists involved in the station's research projects to refuse any contact with anyone at the station. BELSPO, for its part, orders researchers not to accept data collected during the year from the instruments they have installed in the station. BELSPO would therefore prohibit further research. I wish you could have given me the exact version of the facts. As far as I am concerned, I believe that the role of a Secretary of State for Scientific Policy is to promote scientific missions and to participate in the development of these scientific actions in the polar station. So, Madam Secretary of State, do you confirm the existence of the prohibitions made by your services to Belgian scientists? How do you justify prohibiting researchers from being in contact with the IPF to receive data from their research? Will you lift this ban and encourage the transfer of this data for the benefit of science?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, in my turn, I wish to return to the particular problem of the state of the polar station Princess Elisabeth. The press has recently reported disturbing information about the state of the station. We're talking about damaged structures, roofs that risk collapsing. These findings are said to have been made by the staff of the Polar Foundation, who, in the absence of a representative of the Belgian State, are alone on the spot. If these problems were to be confirmed, the responsibility of the State would be heavy, since the damage would have arisen following last year's mission, a mission based on a royal decree deemed illegal a few months later by the Council of State. The problem is that you are absolutely not in a position to confirm or deny this because your judicial difficulties prevented you from sending a mission there. Today, the station's survival is at stake! It should be recalled that under our legislation, any maintenance or maintenance mission by the Belgian State must be decided by the Polar Secretariat and its Strategic Council. That is impossible, since you have decided not to appoint this Strategic Council! In addition, you announced in the press that an international mission with Norway would go to Romnoes for an inspection, after the decision of the ATCM, but also to Princess Elisabeth station. However, when the ATCM report is read, it is not, strictly speaking, an inspection. Meanwhile, Belgium's image is constantly being ridiculed in the international community. After a Chinese newspaper, it is the prestigious journal Science, in an article dated January 17, which reports the words of a Swiss researcher who talks about a "ridiculous" situation! Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, may I ask you the following questions, and first of all the one asked by the journal Science: who controls the polar station? According to your information, what is the current state of the polar station? Are you able to confirm the information published in the press? With regard to the inspection mission, do you confirm Norway's participation? Who will make up this inspection mission? When will it take place? What is its detailed objective? What is the budget for this mission? What department will it bear the cost? At the end of the summer approaching in Antarctica, is this mission not exposed to increased risks? Will additional security measures be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u38	Mr Cheron, Mr de Lamotte, you clearly have partial and even incorrect information. It's obvious. In addition, you mix several things. Let me be very clear. What you are defending here, a return to the situation that was previously known, is neither possible nor desirable nor acceptable. In practice, we found that the old situation did not work, that it led to bad decisions, poor financial management, possible conflicts of interest, etc. I would like to correct the wrong information that you have here. Mr Cheron, the court of first instance did not require us to appoint a Strategic Council for December 2016. You're confusing a lot of things. In the judgment of 10 July 2015, the court ordered the Belgian State to appoint the public members of the Strategic Council and to take a position on whether or not to appoint private members. That's what we did. Indeed, by the Royal Decree of 13 August 2015, we appointed the public members and took a position on the private members. It's as simple as that! Your claim that the station was mismanaged during the Belgian mission in 2016 is not correct either. The mission, under the leadership of Ms. Chiara Montanari, was particularly successful. Dr. Montanari left the station in good condition. In this regard, I would like to point out that at the start of Chiara Montanari and his team, an IPF team was still present. A judicial officer is competent only in the judicial district where he is established. Antarctica is not a Belgian judicial district. We have provided all the necessary collaboration for the preparation of the inventory. There is nothing to blame the Belgian State. In addition, it was not the latter who removed material from the polar station. Your insinuations about the people who would have participated in the interview mission, with the Defence, are not proven. It is easy to insinuate without giving evidence. You're talking about a ban on BELSPO against scientists. That's not true. I read you an excerpt from the letter of the President of BELSPO after the judgments of the Council of State: "Mr.Director, following the judgments of the Council of State of 23 September 2016 and 27 October 2016, which confirmed that only the Polar Secretariat is competent to organize the maintenance and operation missions of the Polar Station and its equipment, the organisation of a campaign for this purpose for the season has been suspended. Under these circumstances, and in consultation with the project leaders of the institutions listed in the Annex to this document, the ongoing scientific projects and experiments at the Princess Elizabeth Polar Station, funded by BELSPO as part of its research programme, are suspended. This implies that no use of the equipment, materials and supplies dedicated to these projects and experiences can be made without the explicit written agreement of the project manager. BELSPO reserves the right to claim any compensation corresponding to the consumption of supplies or damage caused by such intervention or use. In addition, no intervention will give rise to financial compensation from BELSPO if it has not been previously authorised by a duly authorised person to represent and engage BELSPO for this purpose. This letter is addressed to you on behalf of and on behalf of the State and all the institutions listed in the annex." Indeed, the court confirmed that the IPF, as a private actor, can go to the polar base for the realization of its social object. This implies that displacement will be purely a private initiative and not an action carried out on behalf of or as a representative of the Belgian State or the Secretariat of the Centre. The environmental permit, to which the IPF also refers, has a non-governmental mission. Therefore, it is clear that the IPF uses its own means to do so. I don't like it either, Mr. Cheron, that you make me look like a liar. I take note of that. I can confirm to you, as I have already stated before, that an inspection mission will take place at the end of February - but I will respond more explicitly to Mr Senesael on this point - and that it will indeed go to the polar base. A letter was also sent to the IPF on this subject. We also did not customise this file. For us, this is not Mr. Hubert, but a structure that has been found not to work. You're referring to the Finance Inspectorate's reports. I invite you to read all the content carefully. Indeed, they leave little room for interpretation and can in no way lead to the interpretation you make of it. In fact, did you actually read them or did anyone give you the summary? In all cases, it is clear that the decision is up to the payer. The federal government will not give a $3 million cheque without exercising control. Do you really want us to make these 3 million euros, the taxpayer's money available, without any liability being linked to it? Sir, in 2016, we did not release more than 3 million. We spent exactly EUR 1 240 787 on this, plus EUR 167 000 on the PSI's subsistence budget. Note also that it is not the Belgian State that has launched the judicial carousel, it is the IPF that has chosen to open a proceeding. The Belgian State has had no choice but to defend itself legally and it costs money, unfortunately. It was not the Belgian State that decided not to launch a BELARE mission in 2016-2017. It was a procedure that made it impossible. That's the reality! In fact, errors of judgment were made in this case, particularly when in 2008 a judicial framework was imposed that de facto led to a monopoly for a single partner and opened the door to mismanagement. This is not the first time conflicts have erupted, but these problems have always been stifled. It's over. In recent years, we have had a lot of contact with the IPF and we have negotiated a lot, but to no avail, unfortunately. I remain ready to start the dialogue with the IPF, but not to return to the old situation, and not as long as we continue to take the initiative on new procedures. The government wants a lasting solution for the management of the polar base. The objective is and remains the foundation of a transparent management AISBL, with public partners and several private partners. I repeat that, in this structure, there may also be a place for the IPF, but not as a privileged and unique partner. I continue by addressing Mr. Senesael. The Polar Secretariat cannot be functional until a new Strategic Council is appointed. This was done to ensure remote control of the station, and systems were put in place until the next 2017-2018 campaign. To this end, the contract with the satellite provider SES Astra was extended. As rightly pointed out, and as I have already said, the Council of State, in its judgment of 23 September 2016, found the judgment of 10 August 2015 illegal and stipulated that any mission or activity at the station should receive the approval of the Polar Secretariat through its Strategic Council. These provisions also apply to the activities of the IPF. Therefore, it is not because the IPF received an environmental permit for a non-governmental activity at the station, as I have already said, that the presence of the IPF is permitted. The decision of the Brussels Court of Appeal of December 2015 authorizing the IPF to use the station in relation to its social purpose remained valid until the Council of State ruled on the legality of the Royal Decree of 10 August 2015. In practice, however, we find that the IPF ignored this judgment resulting from a procedure initiated by itself. In early November, she was already present at the station, where she adapted satellite communication and renovated the building. These actions did not take place in accordance with the judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal of 17 December 2015. I can tell you, about the information published in the press about the poor management and maintenance of the station - in particular garages and electrical systems - by the team of the 2015-2016 BELARE campaign, that all this has led to the current poor condition of the station. The 2015-2016 BELARE campaign was led by an experienced expedition leader, Ms Chiara Montanari. Its limited mandate was to ensure the continuity of scientific activities, to define the condition of the station and to ensure its viability through highly necessary maintenance work. The Strategic Board was to assess the need for, and priority for, changes and work on the basis of a status report at a later stage. On its arrival at the station in November 2015, the BELARE team found the damage to the garages in addition to the damage that had been caused during the construction phase of the station. You can find this information in the various reports sent to the Polar Secretariat. Mr. Hubert states: "When the station was built, we had no idea of the movements of the surrounding glaciers" (https/vimeo.com/201230838). It is clear that when garages were built in 2007-2008, insufficient consideration was given to environmental factors such as snow accumulation and glacier movements. As a result, repairs had to be undertaken at an annual rate. For this reason, the garages had already been replaced in 2014-15. Currently, supporting that the damage to the old parts of the garages, which have not yet been replaced, is also a result of incompetence during the 2015-2016 season, is a matter of bad will. On the basis of extensive data, we can also conclusively establish that there were already structural problems in terms of the reliability of electrical systems at the time of the station's inauguration in 2009. In none of the seven missions, including the 2015-2016 mission, except for one season, control was lost with the station. By constantly sending back the so-called failure to the press, the IPF seeks above all to divert attention from the station's structural problems, problems that have not been solved for years, while the solution falls under its responsibility as the station's operator. The analysis of the current situation of the station is one of the objectives of the fact-finding mission, which will shortly be organised by a team of Belgian and Dutch officials and with the logistical support of the Norwegian Polar Institute, in accordance with Article 1, § 3 of the Partnership Convention of 15 June 2007 concluded between the Belgian State and the IPF. The mission has two objectives. First, conduct an airstrip inspection mission to Romnoes "Blue Eyes", in accordance with the 2016 Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting (ATCM), and conduct a more in-depth study of the activities already carried out and the current status of the Romnoes airstrip issue. These findings will be reported through a backgrounder to the ATCM in 2017. Secondly, to make a visit to Princess Elisabeth station within the framework of the provisions laid down in the partnership agreement signed in 2007 between the Scientific Policy and the IPF, more specifically pursuant to Article 1, § 3, in order to inspect the station without occupation, its equipment and its activities, in compliance with the Antarctic Treaty, with particular attention to permits issued by Belgium. With the authorization of the SPF Environment and in accordance with the provisions of the Antarctic Treaty, the information was introduced into the Electronic Information Exchange System database of the Antarctic Treaty System (ATS). Mandated by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of the Environment and myself, the inspection team is composed of eight official representatives of the Belgian State and the Netherlands, with cooperation with Norway in the logistical support of the mission. The departure for Antarctica is expected in a few days, with a return by 28 February at the latest. Accommodation at Princess Elizabeth Station is scheduled for 21-24 February, depending on weather conditions. The proposed budget for BELSPO's mission is estimated at €230,000. This estimate is based on the actual cost of transportation to Antarctica via Cape Town. Some variable costs, such as communications costs in Antarctica to ensure team security, are also included. The mission will take place during the summer season in Antarctica, so that it does not run any more risk than other similar missions under way or the logistical activities of other countries active in that area. Once in Antarctica, the programme of flights to Romnoes and the station will be determined in consultation with flight operators according to weather conditions. Pilots are experienced and take no risk. The period from 21 to 28 February in Antarctica allows us to adapt to the conditions on the ground and to anticipate them. This is the normal way of working. Our Defence colleagues provided all the equipment and equipment needed to ensure the security of the team. Once the inspection program is complete, the team will fly as soon as possible to the Norwegian Troll station. It will remain there until the possibility of a flight back to Cape Town. The plane for the return flight from Antarctica remains permanently available in Cape Town. This return is scheduled for 28 February at the latest. The latest flight between the Norwegian station and Cape Town is scheduled for 15 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u39	Mr President, I am struck by the reply of the Secretary of State. I know that for some time, we've heard about alternative facts that the English call "post-truth". According to the Secretary of State, therefore, there are several ways to interpret court decisions. One can deny the facts, such as the one you are obliged to appoint representatives to the Polar Secretariat or the Strategic Council. According to you, we misunderstood, we read poorly or only fragments of documents. I note that you are now obliged to speed up a saviour-who-may-be – what you call an inspection –, dare-dare, at the end of the southern season. I hope we won't have to talk about it again like a new fiasco with all that money invested. So far, this has always been the case. This appears, in any case, as an attempt to smoke to try, once again, to accredit what I call a crusade that you are leading against Mr Hubert and especially against the Polar Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State, all this helps to create a real fiasco. We're no longer in the capacity to have a polar station that serves our scientists. Even you have to recognize him. It's a total fiasco. Mr. Chair, I confess that I am beginning to get tired of non-responses to obvious questions that are being tabled, which is why I have tabled a motion for a recommendation. The purpose of the latter is to ask the government – I am no longer addressing the Secretary of State – to comply with court decisions. In this motion, I ask the government, since Ms.Sleurs does not want to do so, to nominate all members of the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat. I also request that the matter be suspended, as it relates, with the work on a bill signed by Ms. Marghem, co-signed by Ms. Sleurs, which aims to counteract and overcome judicial decisions and legal conflicts and, in a way, to nationalize the polar station to avoid legal conflicts. I call for a genuine formal dialogue with the Polar Secretariat, the International Polar Foundation and the Belgian State. Finally, and most importantly – as you will understand, ladies and gentlemen – I ask that the matter be entrusted to another member of the government who is able to act in full transparency and open to dialogue. Of course, I will make every effort to have a debate on this in plenary before all Members and the government. We have to stop this fiasco! It's no longer possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u40	Mr. Cheron, I confirm that we have received the text of your motion, which, like that of Mr. de Lamotte, will be forwarded to the Speaker of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u41	Madam Secretary of State, I take note of your response. Listening to or hearing the letter you mentioned earlier, I realize that research or the transmission of research data has been banned for all researchers who may be in contact, even with modern means of telecommunications, with the databases in the polar station. So, Mr President, I would have liked the text of the letter that the Secretary of State has read to us to be attached to the record. Since it was referred to here in committee, it must be an integral part of the report of the record. Madam Secretary of State, in addition to this request to receive the letter you have sent us, it seems to me that you will, in any case, have to negotiate with the speakers. It would be useful for the government to specify the conditions for such negotiations. You will have to have a discussion with the polar station, which you could have anticipated since this negotiation could have been started a year ago. I appeal, in my motion, to mediation on this matter by the Prime Minister so that a number of difficulties can be brought to light. Madam Secretary of State, if you do not negotiate, what logistical means are you going to implement to solve the problem, especially since, and this has been mentioned, you want to set up an AISBL that the other partners do not want to join until the legal situation is clear. We're in a bag of knots, the cat bites its tail and we can't solve the problems. Would it not be more useful to get back to the table to negotiate, while specifying a number of conditions. There must be a discussion. Beyond that, there will be no salvation, and there will be great concern for the scientists, research and money of Belgium, who should be more devoted to research than to litigation in the courts. By the motion, therefore, I call for the government to take up the matter, for the Prime Minister to appoint a mediator to be able to overcome this difficulty. Any other brutal solution, which could lead to a legislative amendment in the Committee on Public Health, through a bill on the environment, does not seem appropriate. That would worsen the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u42	A clarification of your request regarding the record. We are here as part of the oral questions. In this context, the record will not annex a document, unlike other debates; extracts which have been read by the Secretary of State will be included in her reply. But nothing prevents the letter from being copied to the members. If the Minister wishes, in full transparency, to transmit this document, it can be transmitted to the members via the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u43	Mr President, I shall be brief because my colleagues have already answered the various questions and answers that the Secretary of State has provided with great interest. I would like to respond in two phases, Madam Secretary of State. I thank you, first of all, for the questions about the state of the polar station and for the precise answers you have given to both the mission's objectives and the duration, costs and collaborations put in place for it. I thank you for having answered all the questions asked, I think. However, this does not mean that I am satisfied with your answers. It is time to get out of this situation as has been said. And you have to get out of it from the top! On many occasions, judicial misdemeanours, legal insecurity and the non-appointment of the Strategic Council have already been mentioned. So I will not repeat what has been said by my colleagues. It is high time for the reputation of our country and the quality of this scientific flagship to pay not particular attention to it, but to ensure that missions can be organized in the best interests of everyone. Madam Secretary of State, I therefore urge you to reserve the best follow-up to multiple, varied and interesting requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, can you make this letter available to the services for distribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u45	It's the one I read almost completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u46	Therefore, it is not a problem to distribute it. I invite you to submit it to the secretariat, which will transmit it electronically.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic595x.u47	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michel de Lamotte and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Michel de Lamotte and the response of the Secretary of State for Poverty Alleviation, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, in charge of the Greater Cities, Assistant to the Minister of Finance, asks the government to appoint a mediator to facilitate the negotiation of a new partnership between the International Polar Foundation and the government and to ensure the pace of these negotiations." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Michel de Lamotte and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Michel de Lamotte and the reply of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, with responsibility for Large Cities, added to the Minister of Finance, calls on the Government appoint a mediator to facilitate the negotiations on a new partnership between the International Polar Foundation and the Government and to monitor the pace of those negotiations." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Marcel Cheron and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Michel de Lamotte and the response of the Secretary of State for Poverty Alleviation, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, in charge of the Greater Cities, Assistant to the Minister of Finance, asks the government - to comply with the court decisions established to date in the file; - to appoint as soon as possible all members of the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat; - suspend work on draft law 2276/01 on the environment and regulation of activities under Belgian jurisdiction in Antarctica, until legal disputes are resolved; - to re-establish a formal dialogue between the Polar Secretariat, the International Polar Foundation and the State; - to entrust the case to another member of the government, capable of acting in full transparency and open to dialogue." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Michel de Lamotte and the reply of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, with responsibility for Large Cities, added to the Minister of Finance, calls on the Government - to comply with the decisions taken so far in this file; - appoint the members of the Pool Secretariat's strategic board as soon as possible; - suspend the work on draft law 2276/01 on the protection of the environment and the regulation of Antarctica activities under the jurisdiction of Belgium as long as legal disputes are pending; - re-establish a formal dialogue between the Pool Secretariat, the International Polar Foundation (IPF) and the State; - entrust the file to another member of the government, who can act in all transparency and be open to dialogue." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Werner Janssen. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Werner Janssen. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
