ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 16286 will be converted into a written question. We have not received any notice in relation to Question No 1, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission of the European Communities to the Council (Doc. Mr
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u2	Mr.President, Minister, on February 14, 2017, a researcher at the Institut national d'Études démographiques en France published a survey showing that host countries are far from receiving all the misery of the world when they grant a residence permit. There are many myths about immigration. Some point to the cost of the latter, others speak of a real invasion, two arguments that are questionable and already disassembled on many occasions. But the study entitled The level of education of immigrants: varied and often higher than in the countries of origin tells us that many of the people who settle in France are sometimes more educated than most French. First of all, it should be noted that the French population has 27% higher education graduates. On the basis of this finding, the researcher focused on immigration from 16 different countries, including Belgium. Looking at immigrant groups in France, we can see that the Chinese diaspora in Hexagon is 43 per cent, Romanians 37 per cent, Vietnamese 35 per cent, Polish 32 per cent and Senegalese 27 per cent, the French average. Others are below, such as groups from Tunisia, Morocco or Algeria. This study, in conjunction with the figures on the employment of immigrant populations in France, also highlights some discrimination in the labour market. Thus, these levels of diplomas do not allow immigrants to find more work. Only 57% of immigrant workers have jobs and these jobs are mostly unskilled or low-skilled. Moreover, the figures show that immigrant populations are more vulnerable to job insecurity, especially women. Minister, have you read this study? What's your feeling? In 2015, the Socio-Economic Monitoring Report: Labour Market and Origin indicated that the position of people of foreign origin on the labour market was worse in Belgium than in any other EU country. How do you take stock of the initiatives taken since then to remedy this situation? Could you disaggregate these results by sex, age, nationality, employment rate, activity rate, unemployment rate and region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u3	Mr President, Mr Kir, through the labour force survey, we note in Belgium that persons of non-European nationality who claim to have a high level of qualification account for 24% of the population in this group; 47% said they had a low level and 29% said they had an average level. By comparison, persons of Belgian nationality with a high qualification reach a declared proportion of 36%. The population of European nationality, on the other hand, has a proportion of people who report a high level of qualification of 38%, which is higher than third-country nationals, but also higher than national levels. The Labour Force Survey, however, notes a positive development. This information tells us that the employment rate of non-European nationals in Belgium was 42.7% in 2015, compared to 40.5% in 2014. The next socio-economic monitoring planned for the end of this year will allow us, among a number of variables - and this is a first - to better understand the level of qualification of people of Belgian and foreign origin. I remain convinced that Belgium does not welcome all the misery of the world. On the contrary, if only the economic aspect is to be addressed, a large part of the foreign labour force undoubtedly contributes to our economic development, but it is clear that this involves a great many different challenges. The levers and actions to be carried out are at all levels of power in Belgium and they go far beyond our borders alone. The available labour market data, the basis of socio-economic monitoring, currently cover only the period up to the end of 2014. The next monitoring report scheduled for the end of 2017 will cover only a very small part of the current legislature. But the two reports already prepared contain many recommendations – some of which fall within my limited scope – that have already been activated. I am thinking in particular of the elements aimed at facilitating recruitment and thus promoting employment in Belgium. More specifically, these measures are designed to reduce the wage cost. I am thinking in particular of the measure taken by the government in favour of the first commitments made by the independents. I would like to confirm that, on 7 December 2016, I organized an inter-federal working group in my office to examine the second edition of the Socio-economic Monitoring: Labour Market and Origin report, prepared by the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, in November 2015. The report, based on administrative data for the Belgian population as a whole, confirms the disadvantaged position of people of foreign origin, although, since the years of crisis, the situation has changed favourably. Awareness is a first step towards a possible joint approach. After a brief exchange of views, the Working Group concluded that this problem has many facets that go far beyond the competence of Employment. Reference is made in particular to competences in education, welfare, equal opportunities, housing, etc. I therefore turn to my colleague, Mrs Demir, to deal with this issue together. In addition, the regional employment ministers are competent at first instance to draw up more concrete actions on this subject. As far as the supplementary measures are concerned, I refer to the measures I have taken to improve the competitiveness of wage costs, the fight against job traps, etc. Our fight against discrimination also remains relevant. I have proposed to use mystery calls to strengthen the Inspectorate in this fight. These measures have benefited all asset profiles and, in some cases, people who, because of their ethnic origin, are in a precarious situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u4	Mr. Chair, I will read the minister's answer and come back to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u5	Mr. Friart is absent. His question No. 16823 has lapsed. Mrs Grovonius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u6	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, mid-January, the press echoed a worrying situation in the railway safety and health department (CPS), linked to SNCB. Two persons who were dismissed from the service reported breaches of privacy, serious malfunctions and irregularities. The Employment FPS is responsible for receiving complaints relating to the monitoring of well-being at work and for verifying the compliance of external services for prevention and protection at work. Has the CPS received any complaints, informal or formal, from the CPS? If so, what is the content? What are the legal requirements for external control services? Does the SPC meet these requirements? How are compliance checks carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u7	Mr. Chairman, Member of Parliament, the CPS, an acronym for the Corporate Prevention Service, is an external service for prevention and protection at work within the meaning of the Act of 4 August 1996 on the welfare of workers. Moreover, I would remind you that disputes over dismissals of workers are a matter for civil law and therefore fall within the competence of the labour courts. The inspection cannot intervene. I regret that I cannot answer your first question. Article 59 of the Social Criminal Law imposes on the Labour Inspectorate, inter alia, a duty of discretion, which in no way allows it to reveal, even before the courts, the name of the person making a complaint or denunciation. It is also prohibited for the employer to disclose to the employer that an investigation has been conducted as a result of a complaint or denunciation. As far as your second question is concerned, the external services for prevention and protection are subject to the rules imposed by the Royal Decree of 28 March 1998 on external services for prevention and protection at work, which lays down a legal framework for the organisation of these services and for their approval. External service approvals expire on 31 December 2017 and my administration is currently in the process of reviewing the renewal files introduced. It is obvious that, in this context, the elements that you reveal will be carefully taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers, although I did not understand everything. I will take the written document to read it carefully. I did not ask for the names of the complainants to be revealed. I simply thought I had figures on the number of complaints and whether they were formal or informal complaints. I do not see clearly how these elements cannot be revealed. I did not ask to reveal who was targeted, but to have statistical elements such as those available in other services, such as the Ombudsman's services. I will check to what extent this information is confidential or not. You said there will be a licence renewal in December, but you did not answer the question whether or not the CPS meets the legal requirements. You're just telling me we'll see if his approval is renewed in December. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are talking about an external prevention service. Obviously, this service is not external as it is very related to SNCB. I'm not satisfied with your answer, because I think you're kicking. You don't answer much. I will remain attentive to this file and will return to the burden of clarifying certain elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u9	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, according to a Tempo-Team survey, lack of motivation and pleasure at work are the main obstacles to the employment of older people. Employees would work out of obligation and not out of pleasure. However, this notion of pleasure at work would be crucial for the extension of careers. This factor would be underestimated by half of the workers and a quarter of the employers. In Scandinavian countries, pleasure at work, coupled with good training, tailor-made coaching and good motivation for seniors, has proved its worth. The extension of careers was successfully achieved. It must be admitted that this concept has not yet entered Belgian mindsets. In Belgium, companies do not invest enough to keep older workers. Less than one in three adapts the framework, content and working conditions to the age of the staff. You will admit that this is not reassuring, given your willingness to lengthen the career. Minister, what adjustments have been put in place to facilitate longer careers? More specifically, what about the federal government? Did you know about this Scandinavian model? What do you think? Are you considering making employers and workers aware of this model?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, thank you very much for your question. It is true that the Scandinavian countries have succeeded in establishing a longer professional career and a higher employment rate for older workers than our country. This success is rooted in a more flexible work organization, like what the government is aiming at in our country through the work law that is feasible and manageable. This is also due to pension plans that encourage longer working hours. At this level too, we have taken important steps. A strong activation policy for all jobseekers, including the older ones, is also an important factor. I am counting on the Regions to take on their responsibilities. The much less important development and the discouragement of early departure regimes, implemented earlier and more drastically, are other factors that explain Scandinavian success. As you know, we are also moving in this direction at home. It is also essential to encourage lifelong learning. In addition to Community policy, I am pleased that we have been able to fulfil the obligation to provide on average five days of training for full-time workers. Another crucial factor is the attention paid to good working conditions, as well as a determination of the wage in which age and seniority play a much less important role than at home. I am counting on the social partners in these two areas. With the sixth reform of the State, the Regions have been given competence over the Professional Experience Fund, which allows for the financing of experiments in sectors and enterprises to improve the working conditions of older workers. This will allow us to systematically create a real labour market for older workers. We consider it normal for workers to remain active until their pension, possibly by changing jobs or seeking new jobs after dismissal. I am convinced that in a labour market that works in this way, an increasing number of people of all ages will find more pleasure in their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u11	Minister, thank you. I understand your answer, but it must be said that when the pension age was set at 62, the employment rate of those over 55 was the lowest in the European Union. It's proof that something isn't working. It would have been much smarter to take steps upstream before working on this career extension. We see a problem in Belgium. If you want people to stay active as long as possible, they'll do it now. There is a real problem. In your answer, you talk a lot about an activation policy that needs to be examined. I agree, but still in your answer, you talk about a lot of obligations but little about the notion of pleasure, appreciation of work, work environment or end-of-career arrangements. I think that's where the pack hurts and we have to work on it. I am not in favour of extending career time unless the person wishes; for me, it would be more à la carte. Irrespective of this, it is necessary to examine this aspect which, for the time being, is often ignored or insufficiently taken into account, either by the federal or the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u12	Mr President, Minister, a lot of executives and confidants are expected to be very flexible and not to be charged for extra performance. Sometimes there is a general remuneration for this, such as a cabinet fee. The question is how to interpret the exception in the Work Act with regard to overtime and weekend work regulations for executives and trusted persons. One possible interpretation is that special procedures should not be followed to do overtime or weekend work, nor that surcharges should be paid. However, the other rules of the Labour Act must be followed, especially for non-management staff who do have a trust function. In other words, if this group of staff is providing irregular services and, for example, performing overtime, they should be taken up in a normal way and account should be taken of the fact that, of course, no surcharges are paid. Another interpretation could lead to abuses. My question is therefore whether this interpretation is correct and can you confirm this? If not, how should this arrangement be interpreted?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u13	Mr President, Mr Vercamer, under Article 3 (3) (1) of the Labour Act of 16 March 1971, the legal rules on working hours do not apply to workers appointed by the King who are in a position of leadership or trust. The Royal Decree of 10 February 1965 on the appointment of persons holding a leading position or a post of trust in the private sectors of national industry for the application of the Law on Working Time gives effect to this provision. The provisions of the Royal Decree of 10 February 1965 are of public policy. The Party is therefore not permitted to derogate from that provision by agreement. Since the workers who hold a leading position or trust post are not subject to the provisions of the Labour Law on the limits of working time, they are therefore not entitled to catch-up or overtime on the basis of the Labour Law. However, the absence of pay for overtime does not necessarily mean that there is no wage to be paid for additional benefits. A worker who is not subject to the rules on working time but who performs more than his normal benefits agreed in his contract or arising from a use or other source of law may nevertheless claim payment of his normal wage. He will be able to enforce a right in order to revert to a source of law, in particular a clause in his contract, use or fairness, which regulates the right to a normal wage for working hours exceeding normal benefits. In addition to proving the existence of his right to pay for these additional benefits, he will also have to prove that those benefits were actually performed on top of normal benefits. Where the wage of a worker who is not subject to the regulation of working time is fixed on a flat-rate basis and is sufficiently high to cover all benefits, he must not be paid in addition. However, the parties are free to include in the contract that no remuneration is due for additional benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your enlightening explanation. It will be useful to bring the ongoing discussions to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs de Coster-Bauchau's 17256 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u16	Mr Minister, the 2016 annual report of the RVA would show that the number of posted workers reported to this country has fallen slightly over the past year. However, this is in stark contrast to the figures that your colleague, Secretary of State De Backer, recently gave me. His figures indicated that the number of Limosa notifications for employees in 2016 would be much higher than in 2015, i.e. more than 661 000 in 2016 compared to more than 566 000 in 2015. According to his figures, the number of unique workers would also have increased slightly, from 182 000 to 189 000. Minister, how do you explain these contrasting figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u17	Mr Raskin, I hope I can get you out of the doubt about these figures. The figures given in the 2016 Annual Report of the RVA, in volume 2, on page 21-22, show that the number of posted workers reported to our country has fallen slightly over the past year: about 0.5 % compared to 2015. These figures serve merely to outline the contextual background to the evolution of the unemployment rates of the RVA. Your figures come from the RSZ and are about unique people, employees, so not about reports. The only difference between the figures for unique employees in your demand, i.e. the increase from 182 745 in 2015 to 189 801 in 2016 and the figures for the annual report of the RVA, a decrease from 214 937 in 2015 to 213 763 in 2016, is that the figures of the RVA are not only the employees but also the self-employed. The number of self-employed has decreased from 34 763 in 2015 to 27 066 in 2016. When the number of self-employed persons is added to your figures on employees, and when the persons who are both self-employed and employed in that year are counted only once, the figures given in the annual report of the RVA are obtained. In conclusion, therefore, I would say that there is a very slight decline in the number of unique people, in particular less than 1%, the result of a limited increase in the number of employees and a slightly greater decrease in the number of self-employed. I assume that, after this explanation, there will be no contrasting figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u18	Minister, you have been very specific in giving the figures. Of course, I assume they're right. I'm not questioning that. I would like to say that we must be aware that it is rather dangerous to compare apples with pears. Many figures have also been published in the press in recent weeks. De Gazet van Antwerpen and Het Belang van Limburg cited figures about the decline of foreigners in the labour market in the construction sector. The next day you made a plea for the new tax shift in De Tijd and also focused on the construction and the specific problems that are going on there. Without questioning the figures, we must also beware of them. Over the past week, the Confederation of Construction has reacted indignantly to a number of figures that may be misinterpreted and used from a different context. I think we should all try to use the same figures and speak from the same angle. If we want to tackle disloyal competition and social dumping, we will all have to use the same figures. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u19	Questions Nos 17313 and 17314 by Mr Hedebouw are converted into written questions. Mrs Jadin is not present, so her questions Nos 17352 and 17336 lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u20	Minister, in the written record of my question I referred to the employment rate of refugees in Denmark. It has risen as a result of a new integration policy there. Minister, what is the current employment rate of refugees in our country? What has been the evolution of this since the end of 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u21	I can be pretty short. As a result of your question, we have requested figures, but no link is currently being made between residence status and labour market status. So there are no figures on that. I asked an additional question: could we get figures on the refugees who can work after four months and get a work permit? I have been told that this question should be put to the regions. So the question is pending. I have also been told that such a link will be possible in the future in the context of socio-economic monitoring. In short, as soon as we have the figures on professional cards, I would like to give them to you. They're not in my possession yet. I hope that we will be able to provide some more figures in the future, so that this can be taken into account in socio-economic monitoring.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for giving us the answers as soon as you get them from the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u23	Minister, many things have happened since I submitted my question on e-commerce. Meanwhile, a number of companies have concluded agreements, such as Shoes Torfs. There would also be negotiations at Decathlon, coupled with the construction of a new warehouse in our country. You are, of course, following the situation as a competent minister very closely. Do you know about other companies which have concluded agreements in the meantime or will do so in the near future? The date of 1 April 2017 was previously agreed. If few new agreements had been agreed by then, you would be preparing new steps. You communicated on this last week in the context of the reduction in the burden of wages. I would have liked an update on the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u24	I can be pretty short. You called yourself Torfs. We are in close contact with the sectoral federation and trade unions, with which we meet regularly to see how this can be accelerated. Sectoral negotiations are currently under way. We hope that this will be speeded up and that certain initiatives will be taken in this context. Since the law came into force a little later than originally planned and we still have to count three months after the publication date of 5 March 2017, we should be clear before the summer holidays. Moreover, hopefully with your support, we will try to do something about labour costs which are 17% higher than in the Netherlands. Let us hope that we can take further steps and take action before the summer. In any case, that's my intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u25	Thank you, Minister. I have noted that at the moment only Shoes Torfs has reached an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u26	Minister, we have already had a short debate on the IGU. The government agreement states that it is intended to implement a reform of the income guarantee scheme in order to return to the system prior to 2008. In doing so, after two years of part-time work, the supplement would be reduced by half, with the aim of reducing the fall in unemployment. You stated at that time that you did not yet know whether you would carry out that reform. You said you'd check if there were any alternatives. What do you mean by those alternatives? Where do you stand on the preparation of the measure? Will the new scheme for the IGU or the alternative be ready and starting from 1 January 2018, i.e. in six or seven months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u27	Mr President, you have already referred to the coalition agreement. In its implementation, I have already implemented the adjustment of the calculation of the IGU through the Royal Decree of 30 December 2014. There are two adjustments. The first has already been introduced. Since 1 January 2015, the calculation is repeated as before 1 July 2008. This means a reduction in the reference fee for the calculation, a reduction in the hourly allowance for heads of household and cohabitants and the charge of a working bonus. The new method of calculation has had a huge impact on the evolution of expenditure for the IGU. In two years' time, I have noted that there is a reduction in IGU spending of more than EUR 62.5 million. Expenditure in 2014 was EUR 243 722 556. Expenditure for 2016 fell to 181 185 854 euros. This means that we are moving towards the proposed budget target of 80 million. If you look at the adjustment as a purely budgetary measure, then the first amendment to the IGU already has a very positive effect. Nevertheless, as you have also indicated, I will check whether there are any alternatives to the halving of the IGU after two years, to which you refer, i.e. from 1 January 2018. I would like to point out that this included the explicit question put by the previous Secretary of State, Mrs Sleurs, in particular in order to take account of the gender test when drafting the measure. Personally, I am not prepared to introduce new measures, especially in the case of single women with children. After all, I understand that the current Secretary of State, Mrs Demir, also wants to pay extra attention to single mothers with children. We must be alert and not make the situation worse for this group, which is already having a very difficult time. I do not choose to introduce a blind saving measure and to hit the working people, who are already struggling, with it. These are often people whose employers are unwilling to work more hours and who have to work in such a flexible way that a combination of two part-time jobs is not possible. I will therefore be careful not to blindly implement it and not to create a new unemployment trap with four major consequences. Firstly, people working part-time end up in full unemployment, which means that we are even worse off in the budget. Secondly, this will increase the expenditure on unemployment, which will have an adverse effect if we want to save. Thirdly, the demand for part-time workers in the labour market will not be met and, fourthly, the income of the persons concerned will fall. Those are all concerns I want to take with me. I have instructed the RVA to closely monitor and monitor this evolution with a view to the implementation of the second measure relating to the halving of the IGU. I repeat that the first measure had a considerable budgetary impact. If you are talking about less spending, then that effect is positive. With the second measure, which has not yet been taken, which is to halve the supplement, we must be very careful, in view of the principles I have given you, because it concerns a large group of single women, often with children's burdens. So I'm careful about this. The positive element is that we have already come a long way and closed the budget, which was one of the set-up at the start of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u28	I note, Minister, that the reduction in the supplement is possible, but with caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u29	Minister, this question also dates back some time ago. In particular, I would like to refer to paragraph 7 of the resolution, in which we asked the majority, supported by my fellow Members from Ecolo-Green Group, to consult the government on all forms of discrimination with the social partners in order to conclude collective agreements in the various sectors with a view to introducing a code of conduct on discrimination and establishing a system of self-regulation and self-control. In the meantime, you have been able to obtain an agreement within the service cheque sector, together with your Flemish colleague Philippe Muyters. If I am not mistaken, that agreement dates from September last year. Minister, has this self-regulation been launched in the meantime? Is that project running? Are those targeted checks carried out effectively? In the meantime, have collective agreements been concluded in other sectors? I am thinking of the construction and relocation sector, where I believe such a system of self-control is also necessary to combat discrimination. During the meeting of 23 November, you stated that the local police area of a city centre and the fire department of another city were being vetted. Does this mean that mystery calls were handled? What were the results of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u30	Mr President, Minister, an agreement was indeed reached in September in the service cheque sector. Like our committee chairman, I would like to ask you whether the system of self-regulation has already been implemented and how it is going. You said this system could be transferred to other sectors. What other sectors are already working on this? Paragraph 11 of the resolution states that for these self-regulation systems an evaluation would be provided for in the sectors. Where it appears that sectors do not introduce self-regulation or lack of systems, they will be subject to targeted controls. The evaluation of these self-regulation systems was to be carried out within two years of the adoption of that resolution. That deadline is almost over. I understand from a recent state of affairs that only the service cheque sector and the interim sector have introduced such a system. I would also like to refer to Unia's evaluation report, which describes the need for flashing lights for the labour inspectorate, in order to demonstrate in which sectors groups of workers are at increased risk of discrimination. Such flashing lights may arise from the results of this sector-specific self-regulation. Minister, do you already have an evaluation system for the self-regulation system in the service cheque sector? When do you intend to carry out targeted checks, since the two-year deadline has almost expired? In addition to the self-regulation system in the private sector, I also questioned you about the proactive controls where the federal government itself is the employer. You informed me that a further methodology would be developed following the conclusions of the review of the anti-discrimination law. This evaluation is also taking a very long time. Apparently, it's still being translated right now. I heard you say on the International Day against Racism on the radio that in the meantime you yourself have prepared a bill on mystery calls. You had already replied in the Committee on Social Affairs, after I had asked questions, that you would develop a model for targeted checks yourself. It's good to see you've kept to that. Can you tell me more about the content of that bill and its timetable? Will it be carried by the entire government this time? So I would like a general state of play on the whole resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u31	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Willaert, I will first give a full state of affairs, starting with July 2015. At that time, a resolution was adopted to combat discrimination in the public and private labour markets. It calls on the government to carry out an evaluation of anti-discrimination legislation and, if necessary, to take legislative initiatives to amend the laws. Parliament's general appeal is to make the fight against all forms of discrimination in the labour market a priority. In line with the track policy developed in the resolution "First self-regulation," then a framework for mysterycalls "" is now in the first place working on self-regulation within relevant sectors, or working on it. On 27 September 2016, the social partners of the Joint Committee 322.01, the service cheques, reached a comprehensive agreement on tackling discrimination in their sector. The social partners have explicitly confirmed that this applies to all legally protected grounds, i.e. age, ethnic origin, etc. We have passed this agreement through the Chairmen of the Joint Committee as a best practice to the other sectors in order to stimulate social dialogue on this subject. A collective agreement has been in place within the interim sector for several years, since 2011, in which self-regulation on mystery calls has been developed. There are initiatives on mystery calling at government level both in Flanders and Brussels. There will be a separate agreement between the service cheque sector and the Flemish Region. For example, a separate non-profit association would be set up from which mystery calling could be outsourced. This agreement will follow soon and will also be accompanied by a communication campaign. This amounts to an outsourced self-regulation. At the Flemish Council of Ministers of 3 February 2017, the preliminary draft decree containing various provisions on the policy area of work and social economy was first approved in principle. The Brussels draft decree was adopted at first reading in the Brussels Government. The practical test, which is intended to reveal discrimination, is particularly striking in this respect. Both are not yet operational and fit into their own competences. This means in Flanders: for recognition as a service cheque company. They are therefore responsible for the recognition: in granting or not granting such recognition, mystery calls will be used to check whether they have applied the anti-discrimination legislation. We have provided all the joint committees with the best practices. In practice, the implementation of self-regulation leaves a little bit to be desired. That is why, on the basis of the resolution, I have taken a legislative initiative on the mystery calls within the three federal anti-discrimination laws. This preliminary draft law is based on the further outcome of the social consultation and the view of the administration Monitoring of Social Laws on this matter within its legally available investigative powers. In the meantime, the Supervisory Board of the Social Laws has also launched consultations with the liaisons at Unia and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men to evaluate together how the conduct of targeted and proactive controls could be technically understood in the future and what role Unia and the Institute could play in this direction or support. This legislative initiative should be seen as a final piece, as stated in the resolution, of almost two years' work in the fight against discrimination in the public and private labour market. At the same time, it is also a wake-up call for the sectors to continue their work and conclude agreements in this area. In the meantime, the call for a self-regulatory system at sector level has been repeated with the message that it must be done now, because the final piece, that legislative initiative, is ready. Where is it now? I sent the preliminary draft opinion to the National Labour Council. The main thrust of the draft law is that the mysterycalls must be properly framed and meet different conditions. I'll give you some of them. The calls must come from the social inspector himself, not from third parties. In concrete terms, the mystery call can be used as an instrument to promote evidence in the event of a well-founded complaint or notification against a service cheque company, a temporary agency or a recruiting employer. There must be no entrapment. The mystery call should not give rise to an actual commitment by the other party and should therefore remain purely informative. There's no proactive police or witch hunt. We must regard it as complementary to concrete signals coming from a sector self-regulation mechanism. Since the Social Criminal Code, Article 20, requires the inspector to identify himself every time for his investigation, an exception is required for the introduction of mysterycalls. It's regulated by law. That is the state of play. I hope that we can take it further, after the opinion of the National Labour Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u32	Minister, if I have understood correctly, there is no other sector, except in the interim sector, where it has existed for a long time, and the basic agreement in the service cheque sector, which has since introduced the mystery calls. Even in the service cheque sector, we are now six months away and nothing has happened yet. I personally find that very disappointing. I think you should use other means to oblige the sectors to do so. That is an agreement that we have made in the majority. It is also supported by my fellow Members from Ecolo-Groen. There is no way that we can just ignore it. I wonder what other means are available to you to ensure this. Apparently, sending memories isn't enough. I believe that you should urge the Members of the National Labour Council to do so effectively. Allow me to say that I find it very disappointing, because experience in the interim sector, where it already exists, shows that the results are relatively good, I am moderate. Do you have an answer to my question about the local police zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u33	It's with another colleague, but I can get that information. That wasn't done by my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u34	Because you apparently explained this at the meeting on 23 November. That was in your answer. There would be a local police zone and a fire department from another city. Can you look at this again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u35	Definitely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u36	As far as that law is concerned, this is now being dealt with in the National Labour Council and it will then be dealt with by the government. I believe that the letter and spirit of the resolution were very clear: first, to ensure that it works and, where it does not work, to ensure legislation. I believe that order should be respected. I hope that you will obtain that the main sectors will also make effective work of it. It is a good thing that agreements are being concluded, but these agreements must also be implemented. We do not need promises on paper, but actions by companies. The problem of discrimination is a major problem. I believe that Europe referred to it again yesterday. It is a problem that affects many people of foreign origin and must be dealt with effectively. It is also a problem which complicates our labour market, and we certainly need additional labour in a number of places in our country. In my province unemployment is 3.7 %, Minister. We are the Bavaria of Flanders. With us, the employers are begging for labour. However, there is a sufficiently large group of people who are not working. I believe that this must be done. We are counting on your support and commitment in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u37	Minister, I will start positively. I believe that the legislative work currently in the NAR is good. So far, the result of the resolution has been a very lean animal. The end piece is very important. By choosing a step-by-step approach, I understand that self-regulation must first be given every opportunity. In this respect, no progress is being made and, where progress is being made, progress is already disappointing. At the time, we tabled a resolution which went a lot further. However, we gave the majority resolution the benefit of the doubt and we also approved it because we thought it was a step in the right direction. We wanted to be able to continue to point out that we did not just approve this. Of course, I wonder how you can strengthen and almost demand to do so in those other sectors. At the end of the ride we just seem to be right, that more is just needed. Apparently, it is not considered as very important if one does not want to steal from it. The example of the service cheque sector shows that this is in theory good, but that it does not seem to work completely in practice. I would be very sorry to be right at the end of the journey that more is needed and that we should have hit the table much harder than we did in that resolution. The majority will also have to admit that at the end of the journey, the way in which that resolution was made, the stepped-up system, leaves little tools for real action. So I can only conclude that it may all be a little more if people are so sorry about this discrimination. Perhaps our group should reconsider the resolution that we withdrew at the time in order to support that of the majority. Perhaps then we could take steps forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u38	Mr Minister, perhaps you can make the next step in the overall reduction of charges that I believe is planned for 2018 conditional on agreements being made within these sectors. If we have said that from the majority, then we mean it. If it is a tissue for bleeding and people think they can get away with it, I am talking about the sectors, I am not talking about you, then it is absolutely not in accordance with the agreements that have been made here. After all, the problem remains and must be solved. We are almost at the end of the legislature and, frankly, not much has happened. The discrimination continues. Minister, we support you in your approach and we hope that you will find additional means to put pressure on the sectors. You can do that with my regards. Maybe I'll get a call from the VBO, but okay, it's true. Life goes like this. A Member of this House must say his thoughts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u39	Minister, a new system of start-up jobs was set up in the budget format for 2017. The idea is to reduce the minimum gross wages for young people under the age of 21 without having an impact on the net wages of those young people. The intention is, of course, to help more young people, especially with a low level of education, to get a job. Once they have an initial work experience, even though they don't make much money, they can look forward to another better paid job. This is confirmed, among other things, by Professor Ive Marx, who has already gained name and fame in our country. As politicians gradually become politicians, the labor economists are also becoming politicians. However, he is an interesting man, because he is not only talking about high minimum wages in Belgium, but above all about the fact that we are not doing well in relation to the employment of low-skilled young people compared to other European countries. This is also reiterated in the European report delivered yesterday by Commissioner Moscovici and presented by Commissioner Thyssen. Starter lanes can be part of the solution. There is a scientific consensus that a 10% reduction in gross minimum wages could lead to an increase of 2% in the number of jobs for young people. Mr President, what progress has been made in preparing this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u40	When examining the law on workable work, the government did indeed, in accordance with an agreement in the 2017 budget format, submit an amendment to re-introduce the decreasing youth wages for 17, 18 and 19-year-olds. One part of that agreement was that the measure should not change the net wage. In this way, young people without work experience would become cheaper, but this would not result in a reduction in their net wage. In our amendment we had shaped this by a reduction in gross wages and an adjustment by the RVA of net wages. As technical questions had been asked and the social partners had asked for an alternative in the context of a wider discussion on youth unemployment formulated in IPA, the majority decided to withdraw the amendment pending an alternative solution from the social partners, for which they had given themselves until the end of March. Of course, it expired at the end of March, but I understand that they would give a ruling on this at the beginning of June. The 2017 budgetary control has decided to adapt the 2017 budget accordingly and also to leave the date of entry into force. If the social partners cannot propose an alternative by the beginning of June, a timing that they have imposed on themselves, then we will be working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u41	Mr Minister, my next question concerns the integration allowance. As you know, after extensive debates with the previous government, we have made the arrangement very tighter. In the past, there was no age condition and even 50 people could receive an integration allowance. During the previous government the age condition of 30 years was introduced, the current government has reduced it to 25 years. The opposition then feared that the young people concerned would simply all switch from unemployment to living wages. Now figures show that this is not the case. The annual report of the RVA for 2016 states that out of 7 986 young people who lost their entitlement to an integration allowance in 2016, 53% worked in the following six months and 40% are still working after that period. Minister, I have two questions for you. In the light of these figures, how do you evaluate the decision to limit the benefit over time? In Flanders, only 17 percent have been switched to living wage, but the vast majority have not. What lessons can we draw from this for unemployment benefit in general? What we do for young people, we may also be able to do for others. It's an activation measure with the right effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u42	Mr President, the figure you are quoting from the annual report of the RVA is indeed encouraging. I also believe that the measure of the diploma condition, in addition to the 36-month credit for integration benefits, is an additional incentive for young people to obtain a diploma or certificate and to look even more actively for work. The fact that only one third of young people who are no longer entitled to this benefit at the OMCW can be explained by their age and living conditions. They often live at home and are therefore not entitled to support from the OCMW. As far as unemployment benefits are concerned, this is a different situation. Anyone who is entitled to unemployment benefit has already contributed to social security and has completed sufficient working days to open up this right. However, since 2012, as you know, any unemployment benefit has also been subject to degressivity. The extent to which this happens depends on the number of years of professional experience that the unemployed person can prove. This is purely about the insurance principle. We have already discussed this: this insurance principle is important and one of the principles of social security so far. It is important not to make blind decisions. I'm assuming this isn't your intention either. After all, some of the people with flat-rate unemployment benefits will go through to the living wage. If they completely lose their unemployment benefit, they will largely transfer to the OMCW. It is important in this story to continue to focus on more jobs in general and more jobs for young people in particular, but not to reduce income, especially when people have contributed through their professional careers to the social insurance system and, more specifically, to the unemployment sector. This also has an important role to play in regional mediation services, in particular for the guidance of the unemployed to a job and for matching supply and demand. It is also their responsibility to assess the willingness of the job seeker to work and, where appropriate, to punish him for his lack of it. But that debate, I have the impression, is not yet completely closed. We shall continue to do so in peace and quietly, with the necessary arguments, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u43	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u44	Questions Nos 17381 by myself, 17495 by Mr Spooren and 17453 by Mr De Vriendt are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I have two questions for you. I will not mention everything, but the references are in the question addressed to you. Article 4 of the Law of 5 March 2017 on wendbaar in wendbaar wendbaar includes the part of working time, which is based in particular on Article 25a on voluntary overtime. I'm not giving you the entire article here. You will reply that it is somewhat peculiar to ask you an oral question about ongoing debates in committee. But neither you nor your cabinet have been involved in this work, even though logic would like the minister to be represented at least by a member of his cabinet in Parliament when discussing bills. Since this is not the case and we have therefore not been able to question you in this context, I am asking you this oral question. Bill No. 584 on Sunday labour rules, currently under discussion in this committee, intends to amend the rules in the same section of the chapter I have just mentioned concerning working and rest time. It therefore seems to me that the overtime scheme could not be used to derogate from those rules. Do you confirm this point? Moreover, the absolute limits of working time are found in the same section as voluntary overtime (Article 27 of the same Act as amended on 16 March 1971). Do you confirm that these absolute limits cannot be exceeded by using voluntary overtime? My second question concerns part-time workers employed in a variable-time scheme. Up to now, they can work without overtime beyond the agreed schedule with a maximum of 3 hours more per week and 39 hours per quarter over a reference period. From 1 October 2017, this appropriation will be increased to an additional 3 hours 14 minutes per week, with a maximum of 168 hours per year. The Royal Decree of 25 June 1990 which equates certain benefits of part-time workers with additional work is adapted accordingly (Royal Decree of 23 March 2017 amending the Royal Decree of 25 June 1990). These measures apply from 1 October 2017, which coincides with the date of entry into force of the part-time simplification component of the Wendbaar Wendbaarwerk Act. Minister, how does this new scheme combine with the voluntary overtime which is referred to in the new Article 25bis of the Law of 16 March 1971 introduced by the Law on Wendbaar in Wendbaar werk? Furthermore, for part-time workers, are the maximum 100 hours of Article 25a prorata or not? Depending on the case, the consequences are very different in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fonck, Article 25bis of the Labour Act of 16 March 1971 provides for a maximum of 100 hours of voluntary overtime. This number may be increased up to a maximum of 360 hours per sectoral collective agreement. This article has indeed been introduced in Chapter 3 "Working and rest time", Section 2 "Duration of work" and makes it possible to derogate from the limits laid down in Section 2, i.e. the limits laid down for working time. Benefits are only allowed on Sundays in so far as the company has a derogation allowing it to have workers working on Sundays. In other words, the possibility offered by the new Article 25bis is not a derogation from Sunday work. The provision of overtime under Article 25a is subject to the absolute limits of working time laid down in Article 27 of the Law of 16 March 1971. The latter determines in its paragraph 1 in a limited way the derogations which allow working beyond these maximum limits of 11 hours per day and 50 hours per week. Article 25a is not mentioned. Even in the case of multiple derogations, this maximum limit must be respected. Article 25a lays down a 100-hour package, so that there is no need for prorata for part-time workers. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the provisions on labour law regulate working hours in the context of full-time employment. In other words, these 100 hours do not concern overtime for part-time workers but concern "real" overtime as defined in Article 29(2) of the Labour Law, i.e. work performed more than 9 hours a day or 40 hours a week. The case of a part-time worker who would ask to be able to work overtime therefore seems to be rather an exceptional situation. To this end, he should, in addition to the agreed hours of work, provide overtime until he reaches the mentioned limit and then exceeds it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u47	Mr Minister, first of all with regard to the overtime component for part-time workers, I mean that they are not subject to a pro rata. This means that, even if it is an exceptional situation, it can occur. Therefore, the scheme to which part-time workers could be subjected seems exorbitant to me. I believe that the logic is that these supplements should be proportionate to the part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time In any case, attention should be paid to the consequences of this measure. Then I come back to my first question. Thank you very much for reminding you of the rules. However, my question was specific and related to the ongoing discussion on a bill defended by the majority. I cannot imagine that, when we try to check whether it complies with the law "werkbaar en wendbaar werk", the chairman of this committee refers us to you and tells us: "You only have to ask parliamentary questions about it. We don't ask for the opinion of the firm." When we ask you this question, as I have just done, you remind us of the legislation in force. Thank you, but I know very well how to read it. So you're not answering the question. Madam President, I would ask that, next time we put on the agenda Bill No. 584 on Sunday work, someone represents the minister and undertakes to respect the legislation and rules that have, I would remind you, been discussed with the social partners. We can't go on with this little ping-pong game. It would be too easy. Moreover, it is a way of working that is largely lacking seriousness and not effective. In view of the absence of a response today, I hope that a member of your cabinet will be present when the matter comes back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u48	Perhaps you could put the item for discussion in the order of business, which is scheduled for next Tuesday at 2:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 17588 will be dealt with in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u50	Minister, the European Commission has decided to stop the proceedings against the Major Act. This means that Europe approves the amendments to the law. That is a good thing, because that is how we avoid a conviction. There is, of course, still a great deal of work to be done in applying the new rules and further modernising the law. Commissioner Bulc is also of this opinion. This is evident from a letter which the Commissioner addressed to you and which De Tijd could see. For example, Commissioner Bulc would look over your shoulder to see whether the agreements made are being implemented strictly and within the time frame. If the agreements are not complied with, the infringement procedure could be reopened. In view of the new developments in the dossier and the work that is still on the table, I would like to know exactly what is in Commissioner Bulc's letter. What are the specific conditions to avoid defaulting again? Could you get us a copy of that letter? What are your next steps in the dossier on e-commerce and the logistics sector, the sector for which we still have a lot of work to do and which you have always said we would do so once the notice of default has been terminated? What's the timing for this? It is now almost a year ago, on 1 July 2016, that the adapted royal decrees have entered into force. Has the competitiveness of our companies improved in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u51	Minister, in 2014, the European Commission launched this procedure against Belgium, because our country, with the Major Act, supposedly respected too little freedom of enterprise, and this law was in contradiction with European rules on freedom of establishment. Finally, the Commission went back on this project. However, companies can recruit dockers outside the traditional recruitment pool, but the obligation to recruit workers recognized as port workers is maintained. According to an article in the Tijd, the Commission has also requested that workers who work temporarily in the port be almost automatically recognised as dockers and are entitled, like the others, to training. In addition, they require that the solidarity contribution paid by employers be applicable to all port workers, not just those in the pool. Meanwhile, eleven owners of the port have again introduced a new procedure against the Major law, passed in 1972, which protects dockers in all the ports of our country, regulates the conditions and defines exactly what is meant by port work. As a reminder, under pressure from employers, the law was amended in 2000 and, in the large warehouses, there is a new status of logistic port worker, whose salary is lower than that of the ordinary docker - about 75%. Following the abandonment of the procedure of the European Commission, one of these owners of the port, Fernand Huts, said that he wanted to reduce the scope of the Major law. In particular, it aimed at its own company, Logisport, which it hoped would fall outside the scope of that law. In addition, the same Fernand Huts would have consulted the Open Vld to present him with a proposal to reduce the scope of the Major Act, and would have consulted you yourself, Mr.Minister, it seems - you will confirm it or not - to lobby his interests for a break in the Major Act. Minister, how do you react to the European Commission's abandonment of this procedure against Major Law? How do you react to the Commission's additional comments on the new recruitment mechanism after consulting the dockers and their trade unions? What is the current status of the proceedings initiated by these eleven harbour bosses against Major Law? What is your reaction to lobbying on this issue by some harbour bosses? What is your position, in particular, that the Open Vld would be working on a law to reduce the scope of the Major Act? What do you think of these initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u52	There are a lot of questions. I can get you Mrs Bulc's letter. In this way, you should not be told through any newspaper which has made tendentious reports on this subject exactly what the content of the letter is. In this way you can decide for yourself whether the coverage was indeed tendentious or not. There has been contact with Bulc's cabinet by all social partners. Both Cepa and the port unions have been in the cabinet. They have also sent a brief message into the world. If the message of Time had been correct, they would have received a different message there than the one they have now received. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their congratulations. It's been a hell of a piece. In Spain, for example, six or seven strike days have now been announced. All Spanish ports will be shut down because they have not acted in the same way as here in Belgium, namely through consultation. So there will be a lot of social unrest in Spain. Ports will be severely damaged. On the other hand, we have not had a single strike day. The ports, especially the port of Antwerp, have produced wonderful results. I assume that ports would never have been able to produce such wonderful results if there had been major problems in the application of that law. That is the work of all companies and of all those who work in those ports. First of all, let me freshen up and freshen up, because the dossier has dragged on for three years. An action plan was transmitted to European Commissioner Bulc on 11 December 2015. On 26 April 2016, an overall agreement was reached with the social partners. On 14 May 2016, a referendum passed by the port workers. That's impressive. The dock workers received a letter in the bus with a number of questions. This has proved to be a great success, as 80% have approved it. On 6 July 2016, the draft KB and the collective bargaining agreements were sent to the Commissioner in their final version. On 13 July 2016, the publication of the KB followed. There was also a meeting with Commissioner Bulc on 13 July 2016. On 16 December 2016, a pre-closure letter from Commissioner Bulc announced that the letter of formal notice could be terminated if everything went as planned. That took some time, because the complainants also needed to be informed and those complainants continued to complain. There are those who would like to see Belgium condemned, but thank God that was averted, because on 17 May the College of Commissioners decided to close the procedure. We will, of course, have to do so once again: Europe is counting on it, and I am with Europe. I have already stressed that on 18 May the social partners were welcomed to Commissioner Bulc's cabinet to get more information on the closure of the procedure. I was not there myself, but I was told that it was a heartfelt discussion, emphasising the importance of completing the procedure, thanks to an agreement between the social partners. I have already referred to Spain, where there is a great deal of social unrest. The social partners have received congratulations from Commissioner Bulc's cabinet, for a good reason, both Cepa and the unions. However, this is not reflected in the daily to which you referred. The letter and also the discussion with the social partners mention the need to fully implement the ongoing reforms. Some people have read threatening language in the announcement that the procedure has not been concluded and have pointed out how exceptional it is that the letter contains certain expectations. I am very sorry about that. I don't call that tendentious; it's definitely on the edge. The procedure is closed and there is no threatening language in the letter. Of course, it says that what has been agreed must be implemented. It's too bad it's gonna be in a newspaper like this. I hope that the stock exchange announcements are more accurate than those articles, otherwise I would be very concerned to do stock exchange transactions on that basis. Forgive me for that final verdict. The social partners and myself want and will, as I have already indicated, do everything in their power to ensure that the texts are faithfully and fully implemented. The agreements need to be worked hard. Mr Klaps, it is true that some people have been waiting and wondering whether the notice of default was now finally out of the question. I can answer that in a positive way. The letter of formal notice is now completely out of the question, but the agreement must be fully implemented. As I said earlier, this is only the first part of our strategy in the dossier. We had to stop Belgium from being convicted first. We will then carry out other reforms, one of which is already under way. The next reform concerns the further modernisation of our ports. You have been able to read a lot about this in the press too. It is very positive that the social partners can conclude agreements on very difficult issues with a great deal of patience and energy. I am convinced that they will also succeed in solving the challenges ahead in this way. Last Thursday I talked about reducing charges for e-commerce. We must also keep other sectors competitive. I'll keep my word. So I will also address the issues of logistics and e-commerce in and around the port. A state of play in the proceedings before the Council of State against the Royal Decree has been requested. The parties submitted their conclusions. Of course, I can't comment on an ongoing case. I hope, however, that we will also be able to conclude this dossier in a positive way. We will contact both Cepa and Alfaport. They have also looked at some proposals in this area. We will also consult with the trade unions in order to tackle successfully the second part, to which Mr Klaps and other Members have asked. For the rest, there is little I can say about this, because the social dialogue on this subject is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If I'm reading something in the paper, I can't help but ask you or believe it. So I will be happy to read that letter and make sure that it is effective. I have no problem with that. I have also always welcomed the fact that the notice of default has been dropped. Of course, no one would benefit from a fine. That doesn't help us, because then we have a fine and we still have to start over. However, I think it is time to take the next step. You are talking about a specific reduction in charges for e-commerce. To be honest, I am not a lawyer and I am not saying that this will be difficult for Europe if we come up with a sector-specific adjustment. Even if that were possible, a logistics worker who happens to work in the port area would still be more expensive than a logistics worker who works outside the port area. So the problem is, in other words, not really solved. I therefore believe that we should look for a more logical solution. I had hoped to get a more substantial statement about the timing. I understand that it is difficult to work with deadlines, given the ongoing social dialogue and I respect all your efforts to achieve this through social dialogue. If that's the way it is, then that's all the better. Anyway, we can't stretch it for another three years to deal with the problem. I don't need to remind you of the fact that it makes us miss thousands of jobs. The figures from the port are indeed positive, absolutely, and I would like to congratulate everyone who cooperates on this. However, I believe that the figures could be much better with a more flexible working regime for logistics, specifically for the type of jobs we urgently need, especially in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answer and a little bit for your non-response. Indeed, I remain somewhat on my hunger with regard to the questions I have asked you. Not only because of the decision of the European Commission, but also because of what is happening now. You say you can't say anything about it, and I find that a pity. You almost give us a philosophical lesson on the theme "Concertation allows us to win, while the strikers, in Spain, lose". But we can see this: only one day after the good news coming from the European Commission, some are already throwing oil on the fire, especially the owners of the port and the Open Vld with its bill. This would have deserved a reaction and a position on your part, but obviously you prefer not to express yourself. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u55	Minister, according to a SETca file, the number of Indians seconded to Belgium has increased sharply over the past ten years. According to official LIMOSA figures, the number of people in 2007 increased from 1,214 to 4,462 in 2016. These Indian workers work here at the minimum legal level necessary to take into account the B work permit. In addition, social security contributions are paid in India, which is a federal jurisdiction. It is therefore clearly unfair competition, putting pressure on the working conditions and wages of workers in the country. In concrete terms, the union proposes various actions to combat this social dumping. First, the maximum duration of the secondment should be limited to six months. Temporary provision, for example through training, should remain possible. But a period of five years, as is the case in the current convention with India, is excessive. In order to guarantee the social rights of posted workers in our country, social contributions should instead be collected in Belgium. This would make the mission of the Social Inspectorate much simpler. The second axis put forward by the trade union: all IT workers should be unequivocally occupied under the terms of collective labour agreements valid in Belgium. In this sector, many Indian colleagues are busy with legal minimums. That, of course, cannot be the objective. The third line put forward by the trade union: the Belgian Social Inspectorate should pay sufficient attention to this problem. It is unacceptable for stable jobs in Belgium to disappear and be replaced by Indian contracts with a less generous status. Where necessary, legislation should be adapted so that the Social Inspectorate can withdraw work permits if it is found that the secondment takes place at the expense of workplaces, since it is a question of replacing existing jobs. In addition, an assessment of the manner in which work permits are granted to highly skilled workers is required. This concerns both the definition of "highly qualified" and the ad hoc remuneration to be applied. Finally, the trade union proposed that workers' representatives should be given a right of speech in the use of the right of posting in Belgium. In concrete terms, the trade union delegation, the works council and the joint committee could have a say in the decision to second foreign workers. He also proposed that the secondment should be linked to strict criteria. Minister, what is your position? What is your reaction to these different demands of the union in the context of the fight against social dumping in the IT sector? What is your assessment of the Convention on Social Security concluded between Belgium and the Republic of India, which entered into force on 1 January 2009 and which, in particular, sets these five-year periods? Should we not limit the maximum duration of a secondment to six months instead of the five years provided for in that Convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u56	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, the text of my answer is in Dutch, because you have introduced your question into that language. I hope this doesn't give you a problem. In response to the first question, the social security agreement concluded between Belgium and India dates back to 3 November 2006. The evaluation of this agreement falls within the competence of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health. As regards the limitation of the maximum duration of secondment, a distinction should be made between the employment law aspects of posting and the approach of social security. For both aspects, the European Commission has launched proposals to review the regulation of these areas. These discussions are taking place at European level. As regards the employment law aspect of the posting, it is known that the proposals contain a system which determines the applicable law when the 24-month period of secondment has been exceeded. In principle, all these discussions apply to intra-European postings. After all, there is free movement of services. It is true that companies from outside the EU should not be treated more favourably than EU companies. In the context of discussions on labour law proposals, Belgium, together with the other Western European Member States, is in favour of reducing the maximum period of posting of 24 months for certain sectors sensitive to social dumping. I asked the Social Security Office in the future not to provide for a longer period for posting when negotiating bilateral agreements than is foreseen for intra-European postings. I come to your second question. This should be considered in the light of the discussions on the European Commission's proposals for revision of the social security regulations. Discussions are being conducted under the direction of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health. I come to your third question. The employment and wage conditions applicable to these seconded Indian IT staff are governed by the law of 5 March 2002. This law imposes compliance with the sectoral wage targets laid down in generally binding collective agreements. Wages and salaries agreed at company level cannot be enforced by these Indian IT service providers. Fourthly, the condition for obtaining a work permit issued by the regional government depends, inter alia, on the submission of proof that at least a remuneration of EUR 39 422 gross per year is paid. In this context, since autumn 2016, the Supervisory Board of the Social Laws has been in close consultation with the Flemish Community services with the dual aim of defining, on the one hand, the limits of the wage components that may or may not be taken into account for the remuneration to be demonstrated, with a view to obtaining the work permit. These include the adoption of a common position on certain charges and charges per service. On the other hand, a number of joint checks must also be carried out on this remuneration, in specific cases of employment, and also to determine whether it is not prohibited to make it available. This concerns Article 31 of the Temporary Employment Act. These investigations are currently under way and will be evaluated together with the Flemish Community Inspection Service and the service providing the work permits. I shall now turn to your last question, question No. 5. In companies where an employee delegation already exists, such as a works council and a syndicated delegation, trade union representatives are already entitled to have access to certain information concerning the employment of these Indian IT service providers. General information must also be provided in connection with the periodic socio-economic information to be provided by the employer. A right to trade union participation in the decision-making process for the involvement of this group of external workers, or the subjection of the decision to a prior agreement of the trade union delegation, is generally not provided for. However, it is highly doubtful whether making a trade union agreement to allow the company to use an external service would be in conformity with the free movement of services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u57	Minister, we're going to analyze your answer, which is quite complete. As you mention it, the question will also be asked of your colleague De Block for the Convention. You're talking about 24 months, while the unions are asking for six months. You're telling me the controls are in progress. I will come back to you to see what the results will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u58	Madam Chair, Minister, you remember that during the preparations for the March 19, 2017, Act, I asked you at length about the new definition of salary cost, and more specifically about how this new definition should be interpreted. I had even tabled an amendment to ensure that the macro definition, which referred to a new European regulation, does not apply at the micro level of the company; you have constantly referred to the fact that there was no problem because you were going to maintain administrative practice for the interpretation of this wage cost at micro level. However, I note that since this law has been published, the least we can say is that it raises many practical questions on the cost of wages and creates significant confusion. I will give you three examples. Firstly, the publication of the Neutral Union of Self-Employed Workers explicitly repeats the fact that the average wage cost per worker should be interpreted as a full-time equivalent, i.e. at the micro level of the enterprise, on the basis of the European regulation, thus taking into account an important list of items such as extra-legal benefits or break-up benefits, whereas you made it clear to us that this was not repeated in administrative practice. Secondly, in the newsletter of the law firm, Van Eeckhoutte-Taquet & Clesse - sent to many employers - I can read that on this sensitive point, the blurry remains extremely important as to how to interpret the wage cost and the various aspects of the European regulation, including at micro level. That being said, I regret that our colleague, Mr Lachaert, who had not paid much attention to my amendment, is not present and I would also like to point out your dubious attitude to the interpretation given here. Madam President, the third example will be the subject of my second question. I am directly contacted, to ask parliamentary questions, by cabinets experienced in this area as well. These, despite the analysis of the preparatory work of the law, ask again the question: how should it be interpreted? They ask me the question clearly so that I can relay it to you. Since, according to the law, indexations and baraemic increases are always guaranteed, according to Article 6, § 4 of 26 July 1996, does this mean that indexations and baraemic increases are not taken into account in calculating the wage margin? Or are they taken into consideration, but are they guaranteed even if they exceed the wage margin? They summarize the question by a formula that takes into account the 1.1% margin for 2017 and 2018: is the wage margin equal to 1.1%, minus indexation, minus the baremic increase? Or is it equal to 1.1%, plus indexation, plus baremic increase? In addition, should indexations and scales be treated in the same way? Or is the question simply "the wage margin equals 1.1%, minus the baraemic increase" or "1.1%, plus the baraemic increase"? The question also arises in terms of the room for manoeuvre for wage increases in a company. For example, if the cost increase related to the pre-existing scale is 1%, there is only 0.1% left to increase wages. On the other hand, if the pre-existing scales are removed from the salary cost, this leaves a margin of manoeuvre of 1.1%, an actual increase of 2.1%. May I ask you, Minister, to give very specific answers to these very specific questions? Indeed, they are the result of important questions within the law firms which obviously have to respond to the companies which have directly asked for them. It seems to me that it has been desired to maintain the vagueness in this law even though the text could have been corrected so that there is no problem of interpretation and no doubt as to the scope of this new definition of wage cost. We can only regret that, when the debate arose during the preparatory work. I warned you at that time that this would raise a lot of questions, and that lawyers, logically, would have to deal with the problem. That's what's happening in the field. Thank you, therefore, for answering very precisely the specific questions that I have asked you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fonck, I can tell you that to date negotiations at sectoral level are going very well. The same applies to the discussion of the wage standard. I think that is a very positive element for you in a very technical debate. I will try to give information and answers to your questions, all to clarify some questions you have received from some lawyers. The first question concerned the control of the wage standard in the context of the extension of the binding force of the CLCs. The control of the wage standard by the administration, in this case the Directorate-General for Collective Labour Relations of the Federal Public Service Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, takes place only for the inter-sectoral and sectoral CLCs, for which an extension of the compulsory force has been requested. The question raised in this context is: Are the wage provisions agreed in the CTC in line with the higher legal standards? If not, the relevant CTC may not be made mandatory. This control of the standard is only marginal, i.e. limited to manifestly illegal provisions, as the 1968 legislator wanted during the parliamentary preparation of the law. In this context, the administrative practice of certification has been developed, whereby the social partners themselves argue why their CLC complies with the 1996 Act and the CLC No 119. On this occasion, the administration may, in case of doubt, monitor whether all the measures taken in the CTCs within a given sector do not already exceed the standard. The penalty provided for in this framework is the provisional refusal of binding force. A request for explanation is then sent to the sector concerned. The second question is that the control of the standard at the level of the CLCs of enterprises for which a review of legality is not provided for by law is not based on administration. In the end, with regard to these CLCs, it is for the court, in the case of a dispute before it, to assess whether the company CLC can be applied and whether it does not contain provisions contrary to the higher legal standards. With regard to administrative sanctions for violations of the standard, the Social Inspectorate is responsible for monitoring compliance with the wage standard for the individual employer. If this is not the case, it may draw up a report and may impose what is known as an administrative fine. The check to determine whether the employer has not exceeded the standard at the company level can only be definitively found at the end of the 2017-2018 interprofessional bargaining period. At that time alone, at the end of 2018, it can be ascertained whether the employer's salary cost has increased by more than 1.1% from the average hourly wage cost for the years 2015 and 2016. As for the inclusion of indexations and baraemic increases, you have already pointed out that this issue has already been widely debated in parliamentary proceedings. First, the calculation of the maximum available margin already takes into account the expected indexation. This means that the maximum margin is a real margin. Indexation is guaranteed. So it comes above the maximum margin available. However, if the calculation of the maximum available margin leads to a negative figure, it will be increased to zero. In this way, indexing is always guaranteed. Baraemic increases are always guaranteed. These increases are real by definition and are positive at the individual level. The effect on a sector can be negative if there are more departures of people with a long seniority than new workers in the sector. These effects are neither foreseeable nor similar in all sectors. That is why we have left it to the social partners to decide whether or not to incorporate these increases. Finally, it is clear that the total effect of baraemic increases in all sectors is taken into account after two years for the calculation of the next disability, and therefore the next maximum available margin. The effect on the whole economy, whether integrated or not within the maximum available margin, whether positive or negative, does not play a long-term role, as it is neutralised by taking into account the existing handicap for the calculation of the next margin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u60	Minister, do I have to understand from your remarks that with regard to the application within a company, on the basis of the question put by lawyers, the wage margin is 1.1% plus indexation plus baraemic increase? Is that how they can apply it in the company? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u61	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u62	Minister, I would simply ask you to give a simple and clear formula to lawyers hired by businesses to do these calculations in accordance with the law. I assure you that they have all looked at the interpretation and the preparatory work. It's incomprehensible. Once in a while, the answer is different. Legal uncertainty has not been removed. Above all, they do not know how they should apply it to individual cases. If you're telling me that the formula they can use is not just the wage margin = 1.1% + the indexation + the baremic increase, then it's frankly incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u63	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u64	You can consider me a penguin! The firms that consulted me... The SNI has published this to all the independents! Jurists. Moreover, the firm Taquet, Clesse and Van Eeckhoutte... This is not my interpretation but that of all these experts. They work daily with businesses and the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u65	We also work for companies and not for lawyers. This is the first element. Secondly, the problem has already existed since 1996. Thirdly, it is not possible to give a formula because the baraemic situation is totally different. I tried to give you, Mrs. Fonck, all the elements. If it's not clear, it's not my fault!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u66	I'll close the incident, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u67	The last word to parliamentarians is also part of the Rules of the House!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u68	Briefly!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u69	So this applies on both sides! We are not going to reinvent the Rules of the House here unilaterally! Minister, I will transfer your answer to whom I am entitled! I heard your interpretation between the companies and the lawyers. The Neutral Union for Independents is not a law firm! It informs all the independents directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u70	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u71	They must apply the law that I know, minister! It seems to me that in a country, in a state with a public authority assuming its responsibilities, there is a need for clear laws and for clear information to be made available to those who must apply the law. The least we can say is that both on the law and on your answers today, the vagueness persists. I will pass on your full reply to whom I am entitled and hope that they will be better off or, in any case, will be aware of the elements of the answer that you have given now. Yes, I find that giving a formula, from the moment such a vagueness has been left in the law and failing to remove this legal uncertainty so that the micro level is defined and the macro level persists in line with the European regulation, would remove many ambiguity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u72	Mr President, Mr Minister, in early March you said in the press that you were opposed to sanctions against long-term patients. In the same month, the government agreed on a draft "responsibility" for long-term patients. In fact, it means punishing them if they don't cooperate in the reintegration process. In recent months, however, the issue of long-term patients had been the subject of a constructive approach between employers' organizations, trade unions and the government. The trade unions now denounce this decision of the government and declare that it pursues only a purely budgetary purpose. We know the hundreds of millions of euros of savings in social security. The government says it's accountability for both workers and employers, but in fact it's double standards. It is true that administrative fines can theoretically be imposed on employers, but they do not seem to be really designed to be applied. In addition, an amount of 800 euros for companies with more than 50 workers, this is not really scary. So, in practice, we leave employers alone. So far, sanctions against workers had been avoided through the work of trade unions. At the beginning of March, Maggie De Block announced sanctions for workers, up to 25% of their sickness benefit, if they did not make sufficient efforts. Now, the government is sweeping all the previous negotiations with a back of the hand and still decides to punish the sick workers financially if they do not participate in the reintegration journey. With regard to the penalties on the employers' side, already in the government agreement, we were talking about the payment of a second month's wage guaranteed by the employer, but it fell. We also talked about a contribution per patient. 10 % of the sickness benefit was mentioned for the first six months when a worker was in long-term illness. These proposals have never been accepted. The only thing employers risk is that this administrative fine is purely virtual, since, as the CSC points out, it would only be applied in very exceptional cases for clearly reluctant employers. In order for an administrative fine to be imposed, there would already have to be an inspection and a report would have to be drawn up by the Labour Court. However, the union notes that the recent annual report of the Occupational Well-Being Control at Work attests to the limited number of inspectors. There are just enough people to control each company every 21.5 years. Minister, are you still personally opposed to sanctions imposed on chronically ill workers, as you said at the beginning of March? Do you share the criticisms expressed by trade unions that these sanctions run counter to the philosophy of your own law on reintegration more based on a principle of volunteerism on the part of the worker? How do you react to the grievances of the unions, which believe that the sanctions against employers have been designed to never be applied - or in exceptional cases - so that an imbalance is created in disfavor to the workers? Finally, can you confirm the union calculations, according to which, given the insufficient number of inspectors, a company can only be controlled every 21.5 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u73	Mr Van Hees, the government agreement states that the government will check how a responsible system can be developed for all actors involved in reintegration. These are the workers, employers and doctors concerned. In March, the government took several decisions which will be implemented by mutual agreement by the relevant ministers. The penalty provided for workers is limited to a single penalty of a 5 to 10 % reduction in allowances for a maximum of one month, if the questionnaire has not been completed or in case of absence from a medical examination without valid reasons. This rate is therefore very low. In other words, if the worker provides a valid reason, no penalty will be imposed. On the other hand, employers who do not make sufficient efforts to reintegrate a disabled worker into their business will be liable to a fine of EUR 800. In consultation with my administration, we are working on draft legislation to implement this government decision for those aspects that fall within my jurisdiction. The other aspects fall under the jurisdiction of Minister De Block. It is of course the Government's intention to develop a balanced accountability system which will later also be submitted to the social partners for their opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u74	If I understand you correctly, Minister, you will punish the companies and your colleague De Block will punish the workers. That's what you're saying. You stress the very limited nature of the sanctions for workers. We know this kind of argument, but the problem is that, for a worker, 10% of a wage, even if it is only a month, is a heavy penalty, while for large companies, 800 euros, is very little. You have not answered this question: it is all the less so that apparently there will be very few checks. You seem to suggest that you are going to take steps to make it effective, but you may have doubts when you see the very small number of inspectors. So I think it's not balanced. You seem to say, in your answer, that this is balanced, and that it weighs more on the employers' side. I, on the basis of the facts, say that it weighs much more on the workers, and that it will create an unhealthy climate compared to sick workers who are in a precarious situation. Again, this government attacks the most precarious workers. I think it's a bad decision on the part of the government. I note that this runs counter to what you said at the beginning of March. You invoke the government agreement, but in it, we found other elements that we can no longer find, such as the double month. It is a little easy to invoke the government agreement to justify a measure without seeing what action is not taken. Finally, I think that this is a bad decision on the part of the government, and that you had to eat your word at the beginning of March somewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u75	Mrs. Caprasse, Mrs. Fonck left for a moment. Do you agree to wait for him?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u76	Mr. President, no, because I have to leave. I'm already late. It's really important for me to come by now. It's not in my habits, but today it's binding.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u77	Minister, the feasible and manageable labour law, adopted by your majority on 13 February, provides for an extension of the time credit from 48 to 51 months for workers caring for a sick relative. However, if a collective agreement entered into force before 1 April last, the extension should not be regulated by law but by the said agreement. The agreement has indeed been concluded, but we learn that the government would have delayed its entry into force. It appeared that, during the budgetary control last March, the government would have decided to make savings in the budget envelope of time credits for an amount of 20 million. This would result in a reduction in the time credit allowance for reasons, i.e. for the care of a sick child or relative or for training. According to a representative organisation of workers, for employees who have worked for more than five years with an employer, this would result in a reduction of 80 euros per month in the event of a full-time interruption and 40 euros per month in the event of a part-time interruption. In addition, the supplement for those over 50 years who take credit to take care of a relative would also decrease by 140 euros for full-time and 70 euros for one-fifth leave. This leads workers' representatives to denounce the fact that you make the workers concerned finance the extension promised in the law on feasible work. I would add that the confusion about system reforms is such that information varies from one source to another and that workers are probably struggling to see it clearly in their rights. Minister, these factors lead me to ask you a few questions. First, why did you delay the entry into force of a provision introduced by you into a law whose ink is barely dry? Secondly, do you confirm the government's willingness to save $20 million in the time-credit system? If so, when and how will this decision be implemented? Finally, could you clearly specify what will change in the new plan and the effective date of the amendments? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u78	Ms Caprasse, the extension of the time credit from 48 to 51 months for the "care" reason has been applicable since 1 April 2017, the date on which the CTC No. 103 of the CNT entered into force. The Council of Ministers of 31 March 2017 approved a draft royal decree increasing the entitlement to benefits for this "care" reason from 48 to 51 months. This Order will enter into force on 1 June 2017. Indeed, before putting this project on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, it was necessary to receive the opinion of the Management Committee of the ONEM, the opinion of the Inspector of Finance and the approval of the Minister of Budget. The draft was then submitted to the Council of State, which delivered its opinion on 4 May. Since this royal decree implies not only a series of relaxations to the existing regulations but also a few small restrictions, such as the limitation of time credit with care for a first-degree ally, a retroactive entry into force on 1 April 2017 is not legally possible. It is true that from April 1, 2017 to May 31, 2017, there will be no total reconciliation between entitlement to leave (51 months) and entitlement to allowances (48 months). This will cause few problems in practice: until 31 March 2017, the entitlement to leave settled in the former CLC 103bis was indeed limited to 38 months, whereas the entitlement to allowances was already, at that time, 48 months. Persons who have already exhausted their 38 months as at 31 March may therefore, between 1 April and 31 May, use the leave with allowances. The only complication is that an application submitted before 1 June 2017 can only be made for 12 months, and that a new application will have to be submitted at a later date for the remaining three months. On 20 October 2016, the Council of Ministers decided to achieve a savings of 20 million as part of the harmonisation of career and time interruption allowances. This harmonization was delayed. The Council of Ministers of 31 March 2017 decided to save another 10 million in 2017 by reducing certain supplements. Thus, the difference between the increased allowances for workers aged 50 or over and the basic allowance for thematic leave will be halved and the difference between the regular allowance and the increased allowance for workers who are at least five years old with the employer will also be halved. A number of other applications made to CTC 103 by the new CTC 103ter also required an adaptation of the Royal Decree of 12 December 2001 which establishes the right to interruption allowances in case of time credits, in order to re-harmonize the right to adjustment of benefits and entitlement to allowances. Finally, under the 2017-2018 interprofessional agreement, allowances for thematic leave are increased by 38% for single-parent families, in the event of a complete career break or a half-time reduction in benefits and by 21% in the event of a reduction in benefits by a fifth if the person is less than five years old. On 18 April 2017, the Council of Ministers approved a second draft royal decree which adapts the increase in allowances in the event of taking a thematic leave, in accordance with the opinion 23 of the CNT. The increase in allowances is only applicable in the following cases: if the thematic leave is taken in favour of a child, it must be a child whose applicant is a parent of the first degree or a child with whom the applicant lives and whose daily education he is responsible. The increase in the allowance shall cease when the child reaches a specified age.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u79	Minister, thank you for the quality and thoroughness of your answer. However, I am concerned because extending credit to workers who take care of sick relatives is one of the few positive points in your law in favour of workers. This is probably too much since your government immediately wanted to make it up for by the workers. Repeated infringements of social consultation with a view to reducing these room for manoeuvre or to excluding the social partners from decisions, failure to comply with agreements concluded between the social partners in the name of budgetary neutrality will ultimately threaten social peace in our country and within companies. It is this aspect that I very much regret when, in my view, the project is commendable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u80	Mr. Secretary, I understand you have to leave at 5:00 p.m. I think we still have time to deal with one question. Mrs Fonck's questions are still being kept. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer's 17860 was converted into a written question. The same applies to Question No 1, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u81	Mr President, Minister, the criteria for the appropriate employment were determined by ministerial decision in 1991. On the basis of these criteria, the unemployed must look for work. It's about pay, job content, commuting time, etc. Over the years these criteria have been adapted. The government agreement of October 2014 also envisages an adjustment. I quote briefly from the coalition agreement: "The definition of appropriate employment will be adapted to take greater account of the competences of the job seeker and will be revised after the evaluation to encourage labour mobility. Minister, what is the state of play on this adjustment? How far is the track going to match the unemployed, following the implementation practice of the regional employment service, on the basis of competences and work experience and no longer solely on the basis of the highest degree or last practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u82	Mr President, Mr Raskin, in the context of the notion of appropriate employment, there is indeed a provision in the Ministerial Decree of 26 November 1991 laying down rules for the application of unemployment regulations, in particular Article 23, which reads as follows: "An employment relationship shall not be considered appropriate if it does not correspond to the profession taught, nor to the occupation pursued, nor to a related profession." However, this provision shall apply only during the first three months of unemployment to an unemployed person under 30 years of age or with a professional record of less than five years, and during the first five months of unemployment in the other cases. In addition, the three-month period starts for the young person who has completed his studies from the moment he enrols as a job seeker. This protection shall not apply for a period of three or five months if an opinion of the competent regional employment office shows that there is a very low likelihood of employment in the occupation in question. In this situation, therefore, an offer in another occupation is appropriate from the first day of unemployment. The quoted article also refers not only to the learned profession, but also to the ordinary profession and even to the related profession. It may therefore be clear that, after a very short period of unemployment, the unemployed person can no longer rely on a previously learned or exercised profession to refuse employment offers in other professions. The list of criteria for the appropriate employment is not exhaustive. Situations which are not mentioned therein should initially be assessed by the competent employment services and by the RVA and at a later stage, following the possible imposition of a penalty for refusal of employment, by the labour courts and labour courts. Thus, nothing prevents the employment services of the Regions from selecting job vacancies on the basis of the competences acquired by the unemployed person, to which the unemployed person is deemed to respond positively. The cited Article 23 refers not only to the learned profession, but also to the ordinary profession and even to the related profession. As a related profession, it can certainly be regarded as an occupation which covers the same competences as those developed by the unemployed person in his ordinary occupation. Therefore, in the definition of appropriate employment, I do not think it is necessary to replace the word "employment" with "competences" or, in order to be even closer to the recent evolution of employment services, with the word "employment" skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u83	Mr. Secretary, I'm trying to conclude. The interpretation of the article of today's binding ministerial decision should not be so strict. I conclude that from your answer. If I am wrong, I would like to hear it from you, and you say that the regions are already able to work on the basis of the current regulations. I take note of that. I only conclude that, despite the interpretation that does not have to be so strict, the passage in the coalition agreement is what it is. You also say that no new steps should be taken. Perhaps we should reconsider this in the Economic Ministers' Councils, because the coalition agreement is what it is. We all note that the VDAB, for many years, and also the other regional employment services, are technically perfectly capable of making the match between the competences of certain jobseekers and the existing vacancies. You say that there is a sufficient federal legal framework, but this can perhaps be reviewed. In the absence of a proper or fully federal framework, we lack the leverage to match a particular job seeker with certain competences and a very specific job vacancy to help people get to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u84	Mr President, Minister, I understand that it was the last question for today. Wouldn't it be a problem for you if I had my other questions converted into written questions and brought the answers? [[Minister's agreement]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u85	Minister, just now, when I announced the last question, I did not think it would happen so quickly. Perhaps you still have time to answer one question. Questions Nos 17785 and 17787 by Mrs Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u86	Mr President, Minister, when I tabled this issue in early April, the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) was putting on-line a database that provides information on 120 000 substances to which workers are likely to be exposed. Indeed, everyone knows that the number of substances that can be toxic to workers and cause occupational cancer is particularly important. In Belgium alone, the number of occupational cancers is estimated to range from 2,500 to 5,500 cases, i.e. 4 to 8% of all cancers observed each year. The revision of the European Directive to protect workers from carcinogens and mutagens is therefore of paramount importance. However, the European Commission has made a first proposal of thirteen binding limit values for exposure to carcinogens, which is very few. It proposed a second list of only five new substances at the beginning of January this year. The European Commission therefore proposes a particularly limited number of substances to be examined and in relation to which we must either protect ourselves or find substitutes. Moreover, the binding limit values it proposes are particularly low and, in so doing, do not adequately protect workers. Belgium has also risen in the face of the weakness of these limits, e.g. for hexavalent chromium and crystalline silica. On the other hand, the pace of work is so slow that it is likely that the European Commission's limited objective of setting a limit value for 50 substances by 2020 cannot be achieved. In addition, you have proposed incorporating reprotoxic substances into our legislation on carcinogens. However, the European employers' federations have opposed this, despite the serious potential consequences of these substances, particularly for women in early pregnancy who should be exposed to the lowest possible exposure and even to a total absence of exposure to these substances. Finally, it is known that cancers, diseases generally occur several decades after exposure. Minister, what is the status of the negotiations on the revision of the European directive protecting workers from carcinogens and mutagens? What is Belgium's position on the existing nodes: the number of substances involved and the timing of their recognition, the inclusion of reprotoxic substances and the height of the limit values? I would add that, together with my colleagues, Anne Dedry and Catherine Fonck, I have tabled a bill and a motion for a resolution aimed at setting up a "health record" of professionals throughout their careers and even afterwards to observe the development of occupational diseases, to be able to prevent them and to take comprehensive measures. Collective work needs to be done in this area. Minister, what is your position on putting in place collective work with the workers' representatives, but also with the parliamentarians we are?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u87	Mr President, Minister, in Belgium, there is no obligation for the employer to keep a register of toxic exposures to reproduction, contrary to what exists for carcinogens. It is obviously not commonplace since it is from the beginning of pregnancy, so long before the woman knows that she is pregnant, that the effects are marked as to the risks to the child. The risks are even greater at the beginning of pregnancy. The consequences for fetal development are higher at the very beginning of pregnancy. The stakes are major in relation to the consequences on the foetus and therefore on the baby. The idea would, of course, be to be able to include all reprotoxic substances in the scope of the prevention rules concerning carcinogens. This would require companies to put in place preventive measures of the same level as for these substances and, above all, in advance of knowledge of pregnancy, and thus long before it is decided that pregnant women should be excluded from these products. This has already been implemented in several states (France, Germany, Austria, Finland). I am told, behind the scenes, that a draft royal decree would be on the table. I am told that it has been more than a year since adoption should be imminent. I am also told that there have been oppositions within the government as a result of a lobby, notably carried by the MR and even by the Open Vld, whose Minister, however, has the competence of Health. Perhaps you will reassure us; I hope so. Minister, does this draft order exist? What will be the content? What is the waiting period, for we have been told behind the scenes for more than a year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u88	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, Mrs Fonck, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will be happier after the answer. I agree with you that workers exposed to hazardous substances during their careers must not only be monitored medically during their professional careers, but also after their careers. This is being done, at present, through mandatory health surveillance by occupational physicians and with the inclusion of these data in the health record that follows the worker throughout his career. In some cases, it is stipulated whether continued health surveillance after the exposure period is required. Unfortunately, we must note that exposure data are currently not systematically collected or accessible. That is why we have indicated in the Belgian national welfare strategy that we want to examine how best to make available exposure data and how to improve quality so that they can be used optimally for preventive purposes. To this end, we count on the constructive collaboration of all partners with such data. In this context, the SPF Emploi started a research project examining the exposure of Belgian workers to dangerous chemicals. As regards the inclusion of reprotoxic substances in the scope of the regulation of carcinogens and mutagens, I can inform you of a draft royal decree which I have submitted to the social partners of the Higher Council for Prevention and Protection at Work, who have nevertheless given a divided opinion on this draft. In this connection, it is also important to say that the inclusion of reprotoxic substances within the scope of the Carcinogens Directive is being negotiated at European Parliament level. I prefer the introduction of such a measure at European level, but since the health of workers is at stake, I do not want to wait for the outcome of these negotiations. I will therefore shortly take this order. I also support the European Parliament's proposal. For example, Belgium, together with other Member States such as the Netherlands and France, has been advocating for years with the European Commission for the priority introduction of limit values for 50 carcinogens, to which many workers are exposed. We support the current policy of the European Commission to review and make more stringent a large number of limit values. As you point out in your question, last year the European Commission launched a proposal for the introduction of limit values for 13 substances. This year, a second proposal was made for 5 substances. I will continue to argue for a speedy follow-up to the first two proposals. Furthermore, with regard to the height of the limit values proposed by the Commission, I am in favour of limit values that ensure a high level of protection, taking into account the socio-economic considerations taken into account in the impact studies and the tripartite negotiations that preceded the Commission's proposal. That is why I proposed the introduction of a lower limit value after a transitional period, as a compromise, for certain substances for which the limit values proposed by the Commission had, in my view, too high a residual risk. It is true that most limit values for carcinogenic substances do not provide full protection, either because the substance in question is a non-threshold carcinogen or because it has been opted for less stringent limit values for socio-economic reasons. In this case, there is always a residual risk related to the limit value. In order to provide transparency on this point, Belgium advocates, at European level, that this residual risk be clearly mentioned. However, it is important to know that the mere fact of meeting the limit values is not sufficient for carcinogens, precisely because for many of these carcinogens there is no limit value. The legislation requires that a carcinogen must first be replaced by a less dangerous substance if technically possible. Otherwise, exposure should be avoided or reduced to the minimum possible for the use of closed systems or, if technically possible, by collective means of protection or by individual means of protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u89	Minister, thank you for your answer, which reflects a concern for a matter that is indeed serious and important. I think that one of the values of the REACH Regulation, when it was adopted, was precisely that it was both binding and that it introduced the concept of substitution. If a substance is considered dangerous, there is time to replace it with other substances that do not pose the same risks. I really think that it is necessary to use this weight and this interesting vision through the various devices for substances, whether they are carcinogenic, mutagenic or reprotoxic. This is the only way to get industry to evolve and innovate. This is also progress, and it is their future economic development. I therefore accept your willingness to take the lead at Belgian level in relation to the European work on the integration of reprotoxic substances into carcinogens and mutagens and therefore in the accompaniment that this can allow. I also note your concern about thresholds, limit values and the perception of substances that are actually toxic without any threshold. The whole discussion of endocrine disruptors is an additional illustration of the complexity of worker protection. I also note that work is being done at the SPF Employment level on data collection to improve monitoring of workers. I invite you, in case you have not yet done so, to take note of the work we have done in this area to try to make effective this monitoring of workers, between the various health actors around them and in the context of this preservation and use of data. We have also done this work in connection with the actors concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u90	Minister, I can only support your bold and ambitious stance if you give effect to this royal decree. These reprotoxic substances really lead to human tragedies, with fetal malformations that cannot now be swept away with a back of the hand. If you do not take your royal order, I will return to the charge on behalf of these families and children. On the other hand, everything is neither black nor white in relation to different types of substances, including in relation to thresholds. In this regard, two complementary efforts must be made. The first is the systematization and effectiveness of protective measures. This subject is even more prevalent today. I note that, in some yards, when using subcontractors, there is a lack of compulsory port of various protective measures. Improvements can be made in this regard. Next, the SPF Emploi cellars are filled with files with workers' exposure data. These files sleep and will always sleep! However, when we have to make diagnoses of pathologies that are related to carcinogens, chemical substances, poisoning and exposure to lead, we often lack the element that makes it possible to affirm the diagnosis, which is whether the person has been exposed to a particular product during his or her professional career. Today, everything is computerized at the level of occupational medicine but, despite this, we sometimes sleep on these computer files. I therefore plead that this exposure data should be systematically sent to the general practitioner. Sometimes 10 or 20 years after the pension, these data can always be useful for making a diagnosis easier. For the patient, this could change a lot!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u91	Mr. Chair, may I ask when the minister will come back? I had introduced a question about ING, because I know that the workers are waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u92	We'll check with the firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u93	Three dates have been communicated to the secretariat, the last of which is set for mid-June. There are therefore possibilities for the Commission to meet in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u94	My question was about ING's situation, because the workers were waiting for an answer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic672x.u95	Questions No 17973 by Mr Wim Van der Donckt, No 18055 by Mrs Catherine Fonck, No 18168 by Mr Egbert Lachaert and No 18698 by Mr Fabienne Winck are transformed into written questions.
