ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 14536 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Lufthansa Group endorsed the complete acquisition of Brussels Airlines in mid-December, following a green light from both the "historical Belgian shareholders" and the German carrier's board of directors. According to our information, the Belgian brand should remain for at least two years. Subsequently, it could potentially evolve to the benefit of BrusselsWings, with reference to the Eurowings subsidiary, with a view to marketing objectives. At the company level, this acquisition is expected to have a positive impact on the future renewal of the aircraft fleet, within a hub that would be kept at the heart of Brussels Airport. However, nothing filtered on the negotiations on the distribution of air links between the different components of the group and the promotion of their specificities. Finally, and not least, with regard to the issue of jobs and the fear of the abolition of posts, it would appear that the overall figure should not decrease but rather increase. The increase in new destinations should be confirmed over time and demand labour in Belgium and abroad. Prime Minister, you had some reassuring words when you announced last September that you would support a partnership that strengthens the company's anchoring in our country, namely a framework that takes into account our expertise, particularly in the African market, but also guarantees for employment and a decision centre in Belgium. In this regard, the government committed to inviting itself to the negotiating table to support the best possible reconciliation scenario between the two airlines. In the light of the contacts with the various parties to the file and the information available to you, could you inform us about the general state of the situation? What exactly are the conditions for this acquisition and therefore what are their implications for Brussels Airlines and its staff, as well as for the Zaventem airport economic centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u3	Mr President, I thank the honourable Member for this question. Indeed, the full takeover on which I had committed myself in Parliament, in plenary session, was closely followed by my firm but also by the Federal Equity and Investment Corporation (SFPI), the latter holds beneficiary shares in SN Brussels Airlines and is 25% shareholder at Brussels airport. Mobility, infrastructure and the airport strategy are key elements for Belgium's future in terms of economic development and, consequently, in terms of job creation. In this respect, I consider that the future of SN Brussels Airlines and the development of Brussels airport are subjects of national interest to the government and to the SFPI, which sent a letter to the CEO of Lufthansa in this respect. It was therefore important that Lufthansa make as firm a commitment as possible on a number of points that you mentioned. First of all, respect for Brussels Airlines' current business model, a strong European network, complemented by long-haul activities, particularly to the African continent, as well as a competitive and high-quality product offer. The second element is the high level of vigilance in support of employment, the maintenance of employment and the creation, we hope, of additional jobs directly or indirectly and, thirdly, the maintenance of decision-making centres in Belgium. It seems to me that these commitments are important if we are to create added value and ensure that this operation is a success on both sides, both for activities in Belgium and Brussels on the one hand, and for the whole Lufthansa Group on the other. I have therefore had the opportunity to meet the various actors in the case on several occasions. I personally met the management of SN Brussels Airlines and my advisers had continued contact with their teams. In addition, I have had the opportunity to meet with Lufthansa's CEO on several occasions in order to highlight the important points for the Belgian government. I also had several more informal contacts with representatives of the federated entities to ensure that the Belgian position was as consistent as possible in the ongoing process. As you know, the signing of the Integration Convention took place. It is the culmination of long and intense discussions but also the beginning of a process of operational integration. You have certainly read the joint communication of Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa last December, which confirms the intentions reflected in a letter I sent to the CEO of Lufthansa and to which he replied. We will remain very attentive. We are well aware that a number of more detailed points are a matter of business secrecy and on which we cannot legally communicate, but there is a concern for vigilance in this extremely important process, in particular through the implementation of investments which should take place in the course of 2017 - we hope in any case - because this was one of the important issues during the last straight line of finalisation of this agreement between SN Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u4	I thank you, Prime Minister, for these elements of the response, which are encouraging because they confirm your remarks made last September in the House of Commons. Indeed, political groups had raised concerns, sometimes from citizens. Your involvement and that of your firm in this case has been decisive. This issue is important for Brussels but also symbolic for the whole country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, last September you announced a national Pace for strategic investments worth ten billion euros. Since then, you have mentioned the priority sectors that will be taken into account (energy, health, mobility and digital agenda) and you have started discussions with the Regions that will be responsible for most of these potential investments. We also had the opportunity to discuss this at the policy note Chancellery you presented at the end of last year, in which you confirmed that you would use the public-private partnership as part of this strategic plan and that a first roadmap would be available in the first quarter of 2017. In a press article on December 21, your spokesperson added that your firm did seem to favour public-private partnerships. It was also stated that this option had already given rise to contacts with several large companies with a Belgian anchor – by Belgian anchoring, it was stated that they were not specially Belgian but had either a historical or a geographical link with Belgium – and that this would be one of the main themes and one of the main reasons for your participation in the Davos Forum. Prime Minister, what types of public-private partnerships do you envisage under this National Investment Pact? You can think of everything that is DBFM (Design, Build, Finance, Maintain), Sale and Leaseback or other formulas. On what basis, and therefore on what types of assembly, have you had discussions with international companies with Belgian roots, as reported? The Davos Forum is behind us today. Could you give us more details about the discussions you have already had in this context? Which sectors do the companies you have discussed belong to? Can you give us concrete examples, if any? What was the content of your proposals to businesses in your discussions in Davos? Also within the framework of the Investment Pact, what progress has been made in setting up the strategic council to lead the Pact and what will be its composition?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u6	Prime Minister, I suspect it is a well-known fact for you that our group has a particular interest in the National Investment Plan. I have therefore expressly congratulated you on the intention of the lively debate on the State of the Union. The announcement of the National Investment Plan dates from a short time before the State of the Union. After the State of the Union, however, we have had a number of parliamentary debates on policy and the Chancellery. I thought it would be a good time to look at the situation. It is crucial for us that 2017 delivers very concrete results in this area. Our economy is looking for strong impulses and our country is looking for federalism for cooperation. A National Investment Plan would, in my view, be a very fine expression of both intentions. January is already over, but today I thought it was appropriate to press for your good intentions in this matter, with relatively general questions. What's the status? How is the consultation with the Länder going? How will civil society actors ultimately be involved in this process? You announced the launch of an advisory council; a good thing to anchor that National Investment Plan socially. How will this council be assembled and what is the state of play? Finally, in view of our enthusiasm and perhaps that of other groups, how are we going to strengthen cooperation between the government and Parliament on this issue in the near future? The time horizon of the National Investment Plan must go beyond this legislature. It is of course our ambition to see the composition of the majority also changed post 2019. We are happy to contribute to this by now so that the investment plan has a broader political basis for the coming years. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u7	Mr President, it is indeed a project that is very close to our hearts, to the government and to me. I am pleased to note that this is one of the projects in which it is possible to overcome the conventional divides, the majority against opposition in this Parliament. So, thank you for the questions. I will try to take stock of the work undertaken in recent weeks on this subject. I took the initiative to announce this project in September. Since then, we have worked intensively. I was able to see that there was an agreement on a number of points in the consultation committee with the federated entities. On other points, discussions should continue. Thus, there is agreement that there are three priority areas shared by the federal government and the federated entities: the digital agenda, mobility and the energy transition. This does not close the door for dialogue to continue on other potentially strategically important areas. The aim of this approach is to stimulate public investment, to ensure that it may be more synchronized and coordinated, and to bring a short-, medium- and long-term vision. I propose the 2030 horizon because I believe that not investing today is a way of getting poorer in the long run. And you know that, through a recent study, the Plan Office has supported this reasoning by demonstrating that mobilizing investment can help support an economic growth strategy and, therefore, additional jobs. That is why I believe that bodies such as the Planning Office and the National Bank must also be involved in the implementation of this plan. What stage are we in exactly? I had announced that I would like to see tangible results for the first quarter of 2017. It was a calendar that I myself had set out. We are, within the federal government, in the inventory phase of projects in the three areas validated with federated entities and likely to be taken into account in the framework of this Investment Pact. We will have more information on this in the next few weeks, but I have already received some concrete proposals from the various ministerial departments. That's point one. Secondly, I myself and my cabinet also have intense conversations with different actors, not just political actors. First of all, my priority is to get a contribution, for example from the academic world, from the economic actors. I have made many contacts in Belgium, but also abroad. You asked an important question: what about funding? That is, of course, a very important point. We are developing financial mechanisms. This may indeed be a cooperation between private and public actors, but for the concrete modalities this may vary according to the projects. There is not necessarily the same mechanism for each project. There are modalities possible. We are also looking with the financial actors at what the concrete modalities could be for a financial boost in a perspective of credibility of such an important structural project. Finally, one important point. Since the last discussions in plenary and in committee, we have had additional technical meetings with the European Commission, not only at political level, but also at technical level. We now have a little experience and we know that there are occasional difficulties with the states or public authorities to launch ambitious investment projects, given the European regulations in this area. I believe that we have made progress in this area. I am aware that we are not yet at the end of the journey. There is still a need for additional arguments, and we still have to argue at both political and technical level. I have had talks with Jean-Claude Juncker, Donald Tusk and a number of European colleagues. This is always an important point on the agenda of my bilateral talks at European level. I will do everything I can to achieve concrete results in the first quarter of 2017 and to take a step in the right direction. Finally, with regard to governance, i.e. the organisation of the decision-making process, strategic orientations, project validation and financial mechanisms, I am in favour of an approach that goes beyond the policy framework. It would involve external actors, in order to increase the chances of carrying out projects that go beyond the scope of a single legislature, and that is the meaning of the consultations that I have conducted. Stability and security must be given to the implementation of these projects. That is why I will do my utmost to ensure that, before the end of the first quarter of 2017, we find the modalities for properly involving Parliament in this project that is very close to my heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u8	Prime Minister, thank you for this answer, which provides us with an update on your discussions. As you will understand, ecologists find this project particularly interesting. We have always argued for the necessary public investment in infrastructure. I think the sectors you mentioned are particularly interesting, and I have already told you that. I take note with enthusiasm of the fact that you will involve Parliament and the ad hoc committees in all the discussions. It is also very positive. My question was specifically about funding mechanisms. It is well known that in other areas, sometimes public-private partnerships may have been constructive. We have also seen the difficulties; I am thinking in particular of the prisons or plans recently made by the Régie des Bâtiments. We will be particularly careful at this level so that, on a case-by-case basis, some public investment projects can make sense. We will observe what types of public-private partnerships will be preferred. This is fundamental, and we will have the opportunity to return to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u9	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply, which gives us an insight into the situation. First of all, Prime Minister, I would like to talk about the working method. You are making a clear commitment to try to work out a working method for Parliament and the government before the end of this quarter. I think that's a good idea. In fact, I think that we really need to agree on a formal, defined place where the recognised groups can talk to you about the National Investment Plan, in the womb of Parliament, for example in a working group or a follow-up committee, I do not care about its name. I insist that this important plan should be accompanied by an intensive dialogue between the recognised groups and you as Prime Minister. Our group really wants to stick to the National Investment Plan 2020-2030, without being impeccable, because our country needs it. In the Conference of Presidents next week, we will put forward a concrete proposal on this subject. Secondly, the question of financing is of course important. The creative and open view of cooperation with the private sector makes sense. However, I think you will also have to consider how public funds can be invested. It is about the discussion with the European Commission, but also about the classic budget work, where we are currently seeking, without being polemical, with a magnifying glass of impulses, oxygen and investment. An agreement on the Investment Plan 2020-2030 is therefore also an agreement with the budget layout and budgetary adjustment of 2017 and 2018. The three domains that have been identified seem to me to be three very relevant areas and they also sound like music to our group: digital agenda, mobility and energy. Those are logical yards. I do think it is crucial to align existing plans and routes with the National Investment Plan in these yards. I would like to mention the energy pact as a concrete example, the implementation of which has lasted for two years. On Monday, on the occasion of my 30th birthday, the four energy ministers sat together, hurray! However, it would be particularly inefficient to draw up an energy pact on the one hand and, on the other hand, to design the energy yard differently in the National Investment Plan. Those things really need to come together. I also believe that as Prime Minister, you can develop more political strength than a trade minister. Finally, I understand that you have asked the Minister to take stock of projects. In order to become sufficiently substantial, this inventory should transcend existing projects and plans. That is what we are going to test at the end of this trimester. An Excel document containing an overview of decided policies that would already be implemented is not enough. A National Investment Plan must go further and deeper, including by launching new projects and intentions. I understand from your reply that we will soon have a new agreement on this, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet's 15664 will be dealt with in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Gilkinet's 15665 and 15666 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet's 15679 will be dealt with in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Debates of the European Parliament 15837 by Mrs Grovonius will be dealt with in the Committee on External Relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u11	Prime Minister, during and after the American presidential elections, we regularly read in the media that foreign hackers played a role in the elections. The aim of these hackers was not only to destabilise the system but also to steer public opinion. As a result of these reports, Germany already decided to take action against the hacking of politicians and so-called fake news. Even a new agency with some 500 employees would be set up to deal with the false propaganda. Political statements have already been made on this issue in our own country. According to Secretary of State Philippe De Backer, responsible for protecting privacy, large-scale cyber attacks against politicians and their parties are no longer excluded. He therefore considered that the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium, the CCB, should play a role in protecting politicians and political parties. In addition, the secretary thinks of emergency cybersecurity courses for politicians. I can certainly welcome that in itself, but I do have a number of questions. Firstly, does the CCB have any indication that Belgian politicians and political parties are effectively endorsed by hackers? If so, have any incidents been reported? How much? Where and when did they take place? Secondly, has the relevant Secretary of State had discussions with the CCB on the subject? If so, when? What was the outcome? Third, are you authorized? If you are competent for the CCB, do you believe that protecting politicians and political parties is a core task of the CCB? Are there sufficient resources at the CCB to protect politicians and political parties? How much are these resources? Does the CCB have any concrete ideas for dealing with this? Fourthly, it is of course not a purely Belgian problem; I mentioned Germany earlier. Have there been any contacts with other European cybersecurity centres on the subject? Does the CCB know about other CCB political entities, which are involved to better protect politicians and political parties? Finally, does the CCB also intend to draw up a programme to increase the awareness of politicians? In what way will that happen? What's the timing? Can this also be reflected in the proposal on this subject for public administrations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u12	Mr President, the CCB has no indication or information on any cyber attacks that would be particularly directed against politicians' computers or the political parties' IT networks in Belgium. However, I am convinced that the challenge is delicate and important and that we must work preventively. My cabinet did indeed meet with the cabinet of Secretary of State De Backer on this matter last Friday, who is responsible, among other things, for respect for privacy. During that meeting, the Secretary of State's cabinet clarified that his reflection mainly concerns the protection of information and personal data held by public administrations or the protection of civil society leaders such as politicians, who could be the target of attacks. At the meeting, it was also agreed with the Secretary of State's cabinet that it should prepare a detailed note on its powers directly related to the tasks of the CCB. On the basis of that note, we will consider what actions we can consider, where appropriate, to improve cooperation from the point of view of respect for privacy and strengthening data protection. In the meantime, I have also asked the CCB to examine this application. A reflection could be that parliaments should cooperate with the CCB in order to examine the support that can be given to preventive work. You rightly refer to certain dangers in your question. Very recently, the hacking of the US Democratic Party during the presidential campaign showed that there is a risk. In the light of current events, the CCB has recently consulted with several similar European services on the risk of cyberattacks against political or civilian targets: political parties, mandates or even elections. Finally, I would like to point out that public administrations are already raising awareness through the BelNIS platform, which brings together the various IT security experts from the departments concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u13	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for the many good elements in your reply. I am glad that there have been no attacks on politicians or political parties, nor that there are indications of such attacks. I will not hide the fact that our party and undoubtedly other parties show more care. As a result of the incidents and reactions from Germany, for example, our party has expressly urged all its Members of Parliament to be sufficiently careful about their Internet usage. It is mainly about checking both professional and private accounts. Mrs Clinton's hacking wasn't done through a government account either, but through her private account. There must be sufficient care. There has been no direct cause and hopefully there is no direct cause at the moment, but a warned man is worth two.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u14	The President: Question No 15664 by Georges Gilkinet will be dealt with by the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, from February 5 to 10, you will visit Israel and Palestine. What will be the program of your visit? Do you intend to address, with your counterparts, Israeli and Palestinian, the recommendations of the resolution on the Middle East peace process, adopted by our Assembly at the end of 2016? As a reminder, it provides for a firm position on administrative detentions, a freeze on colonization and labelling of settlement products. Since the tabling of my question, we have unfortunately received disturbing information, particularly on the continuation of colonization. This is how I was able to read this morning that Israel had announced the construction of an additional 3,000 settlement housing units in the West Bank. Thus, since Trump's swearing-in on 20 January, Israel has given its final green light to the construction of 566 housing units in three occupied and annexed settlement areas of East Jerusalem and announced the construction of 2,502 housing units in the West Bank. Last Thursday, the Israeli municipality of Jerusalem gave its final agreement for the construction of 153 new housing units, according to Israel, following pressure from the Obama administration. This is a worrying situation and I would like to know whether this issue will be addressed during your trip and what your position will be on this matter. Yesterday, unfortunately, I received information that a 12-year-old from the Circus School had been placed in administrative detention since Friday, for a period of 31 days. We know that this circus school is already heavily affected because one of its animators has been in administrative detention for many months. I would remind you that this project is also supported by Belgium. A campaign is being conducted around this arrest and the issue of administrative detentions. I invite you to read again the resolution we voted at the end of 2016. What position are you going to adopt? I was also questioned by Oxfam, which has faced many problems in implementing a humanitarian programme in Area C, particularly in the E1 area you probably know. This programme, funded by Belgian Cooperation, aims to support vulnerable Bedouin communities. There are many difficulties in implementing this programme. In particular, two workers were arrested. One was released immediately and the other was released after four days. There was confiscation of equipment, an evacuation order, challenged by Oxfam lawyers, and a request for an injunction that was accepted. A court hearing will be held in September 2017. Finally, there was partial demolition of 300 metres of barriers and a gate. Too often we hear this kind of thing, which seems to continue. Prime Minister, what about the request for compensation for these projects funded by our Cooperation that are permanently destroyed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u16	Mr President, I will be on an official mission to Israel and Palestine at the beginning of next week. I will have the great pleasure of being accompanied by a delegation of parliamentarians, including Stéphane Crusnière. I will therefore have political meetings with the Israeli President and Prime Minister and with the Palestinian Prime Minister, the Palestinian President being on tour abroad at that time. With regard to the resolution on the Middle East peace process, adopted by the House in November 2016, I intend to address the various points with both my Israeli and Palestinian counterparts. The question of the peace process is quite substantial and we urge that progress be made. We call for the practical implementation of the two-State solution and support all initiatives that create an enabling environment for the resumption of negotiations between the two sides. We have supported, as you know, the conference initiated in Paris, in all the talks we have had in the margins of the UN General Assembly. We have clearly expressed our support for this initiative. I will also call on the Palestinian Authority to carry out, as effectively as possible, the intra-Palestinian reconciliation process, which is also an important element for progress to be made. We fully support the European Union's efforts to bring the parties closer together through so-called measures on the ground, stating that the two-state solution is still on the agenda and is still the solution we support. This implies that the Union must play a more important role in the region. It must support and participate more actively in my view in reviving the peace process. Finally, as you have said, I would like to recall our opposition to the colonization policy, which threatens the very possibility of a two-state solution. It undermines trust between the two sides and the settlements as an obstacle to peace and a violation of international law. We are concerned about settlement activities, the violence that sometimes exists, and the destruction of homes in the West Bank or Jerusalem, which, I would remind you, threaten the two-State solution. The Security Council resolution of 23 December 2016 is very clear in this regard. Settlements have no legal basis and constitute a flagrant violation of international law. I will also address, as you mentioned, the destruction of humanitarian projects. I have been Minister for Development Cooperation in the past. It was already a subject of great concern to me at the time. I will not fail to address these issues. With regard to the more individual points that you have mentioned, I would also like to highlight them in the political dialogue. Finally, on the issue of differentiation, you know that in recent years the European Union has already adopted measures to distinguish between Israel and the colonies, and we are working to ensure that, as far as possible, the European Union adopts common positions on the subjects in question. I will also recall our observations and comments on the technique of administrative detention that you mentioned. Finally, on the recognition of Palestine as a State, our position is the same. There is a parliamentary resolution that gives the government the mandate to recognize Palestine, appreciating the timing of this recognition. You can see that this mission is taking place in a delicate moment. This is indeed a time when the peace process is rather broken down, in great difficulty. This is a time when there is a very lively debate in Israel on colonization with the possibility of legislative acts being passed in the very near future. This is a delicate moment, but I am going to carry an extremely clear message. This message is for the Israeli and Palestinian sides. I will ensure that our country, within the European Union, can play as useful a role as possible in order to increase the chances of progress in this important context, which has repercussions not only in the territories concerned, but also throughout the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u17	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I am fully aware that we are experiencing a delicate and difficult time. It seems essential to me that we can continue the diplomatic actions undertaken with a view to achieving this two-State solution. Unfortunately, for too many years, we have seen that international law has been violated with impunity. Moreover, the reactions of our country or the European Union remain insufficient in view of the violations that are committed on a daily basis. Since I have been in Parliament, I understand that our choice is to try to draw up a European strategy, in any case to move forward at European level in order to achieve the objective of a two-state solution. I understand the logic. However, my feeling is that this may be the best way to never make progress on this issue. That is why I urge the government to be very firm on the aspects that I have addressed today and to be able, if necessary, to consider sanctions against that State, which unfortunately continues to violate international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u18	Prime Minister, I would like to ask you once again about Brexit, which is an important issue, and which I think will come back to the agenda of this and other committees on a number of occasions. I am asking you about what Mr Hammond, the British Minister of Economy, said. He said that the London government was prepared to change and make the British economic and fiscal model more attractive and competitive if it did not obtain access to the European market. Mr Hammond continued his reasoning by suggesting that London could lower taxes and charges for UK-based companies, so that they would remain competitive despite European customs duties. In the wake of this, the UK government announced that it would want to reduce corporate taxes by 2020, for example, to 17.6 per cent, compared to 20 per cent at present, which would give the country the lowest rate in all G20 countries. Secondly, the British Prime Minister outlined her twelve key principles for negotiations with the EU. Among these principles are the defence of the principle of a clear and clear break with the European Union, the desire to have an equal partnership, the desire to maintain cooperation in matters relating to security and the fight against terrorism, and a willingness to leave the single European market but to maintain wide access to it. It also referred to its wish that Brexit should undergo a transitional phase. I take advantage of the events of the last few days to update my question a little bit. I therefore come to the report of the high-level group, which was submitted to you two days ago, I think, as well as to the report of the Chief Negotiator, Mr Barnier. This report is quite alarming. It states that, in the worst case scenario, if my information is correct, companies should bear more than two billion euros per year in import-export taxes. The impact will therefore be important and they are not the only ones to say so. Indeed, no later than today, we read the analysis of an important firm in the press. This firm points to the lack of attractiveness that Belgium might present, since more than half of the companies that would relocate from the UK would choose Germany (54%) or the Netherlands (33%). Belgium is not even mentioned, either in the first or even in the whole of this classification. Measures should therefore be taken. Everyone is convinced of that. Prime Minister, the words of the British Minister of Economy are, to say the least, surprising. What is your reaction to this? Have you had any contact with your European counterparts? I know you'll have one this weekend, but maybe, in advance, have you ever had one with one or the other? If so, what are their reactions to the British Minister of Economy's statements? What is the attitude of Belgian diplomacy in this context? It is important that we be informed of this. Do you think the negotiations can start next March as planned? Did the 27 agree on the attitude to be taken in the face of London's demands? What is Belgium's position on the idea of introducing, as the Prime Minister wishes, a transitional phase for Brexit? What follow-up will you give to this report from the High Level Group that was presented to you two days ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u19	Prime Minister, our country is, of course, a small country and its population, but a small country can also be large. We have often been so in our history. A small country benefits from many bridges, many open windows and few walls. Especially in the area of trade relations, we need bridges and open windows and doors. At the beginning of this year, the British Prime Minister stated that she is opting for hard Brexit negotiations. Either way, that has spooked us. We must pay attention to fiscal competition with the United Kingdom, for a race to the bottom that could affect governments in their budgetary hearts. We must also pay particular attention to the statements made by the President of the United States on his protectionist policy and his exit from the Trans-Pacific Partnership. The fact that they have already spoken to each other and he has announced that there may be a trade agreement between the UK and the US should be our focus. Mr Prime Minister, I was unable to attend the Royal Palace yesterday for personal reasons, but I have, of course, already read your speech and that of the King. I was pleased to endorse and support them, because it shows that you are vigilant and attentive to the problems that are currently occurring. However, I believe that some of our partner countries in the EU may already be a little further than we are in relation to the Brexit strategy. They also have it easier, given the structures in our country. I also think that the EU is not yet far away. One of our captains of industry has rightly pointed out that it would be wrong for each EU country individually to try to bake its cookies with the United Kingdom, because then we will all have cookies of our own, and then there will be one winner in the Brexit negotiations, the United Kingdom, and that is something we absolutely must avoid. Mr Prime Minister, I have a few questions for you. An interfederal working group has been set up. In the meantime, what is the situation there? How can we implement our strategy in a more concrete way, so that we can move forward there and catch up with neighbouring countries? We must have a strategy, not only with regard to the United Kingdom, but also with regard to the EU and those countries that would prefer to do it on their own. I can understand that some large countries can do this more individually and perhaps have a greater interest in doing so. As a forerunner in Europe, something we have always been, and of which you are a prime minister, we must avoid that. One of these strategies is that we act jointly towards the United Kingdom and also towards the United States to build bridges instead of walls.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u20	Mr President, I recall that the referendum took place on 23 June 2016. The decision is taken by the British people to leave the European Union. This decision is unprecedented. This is the first time that a Member State of the European Union has decided to leave this project, thus opening up a number of uncertainties. This also raises an existential question in relation to the future of the European project and the kind of impetus that can now be given to it. I have tried and will try to play a very active role in these negotiations because, in Belgium, we have political and economic points of view to make in the process. I met Theresa May in London in November, and I informed her of our concern about this uncertain situation. It guarantees that it will be able to make the notification as announced by the end of March 2017. In the meantime, we have more elements about the British intentions. Firstly, they want a hard Brexit, i.e. a strict and comprehensive withdrawal from the Union, secondly, they will leave the internal market and the customs union and, thirdly, the future relationship will, in their view, take the form of a free trade agreement. With regard to the position of the 27 Member States of the European Union at this stage, the statement we adopted with the 27 Member States on 29 June is still up to date. We must remain firm on the refusal to negotiate in any way before the notification takes place. It's now a matter of weeks. The same applies to the principle of the indivisibility of the four freedoms. In the course of the negotiations, we will have a number of points of attention. First, an attempt must be made to maintain a comprehensive vision and avoid the risk of sectoral or parallel negotiations. That's a clear risk. We must be particularly alert and I also gave that message to Michel Barnier in the context of a conversation we had a few weeks ago. Our country will be very alert and attentive and will remain for this important part. We agree with the British Government that at least a transition period will be needed. It is a very complex exercise, regardless of the political debate or the economic consequences that a transition will be needed. In my view, there are de facto two negotiations. A first negotiation will concern the modalities of divorce and a second negotiation will focus on the future of political, economic and security relations between Britain and the European Union. The issue is to properly organize these negotiations and processes in terms of methodology, so that we can have a lot of clarity on the first aspect before we can actually decide the arbitration points related to the second aspect. This will also be very important in the context of the negotiating timetable. One of the most difficult challenges we will face will be to maintain unity at 27, to avoid parallel or sectoral negotiations and to ensure that Belgium's own interests are defended. We are one of the countries potentially affected economically at the end of this Brexit. We have been preparing very actively for many months. We were active before the referendum, we are more active now. For several weeks now, I have taken the initiative of submitting proposals to the concertation committee. A first note was recorded. It concerns how to exchange information between the federal government and federated entities so that the Belgian position best reflects the different sensitivities of the governments of that country, regardless of the majority/opposition debates. Both the Minister of Economy in particular and the Government believe that it is necessary to have a very good diagnosis of the state of economic relations between the UK and Belgium on the one hand, and also to look at different scenarios. I think we are one of the first European countries to organise such preparation. So we have a very good note, a very good report, a very good diagnosis. I am quite clear: things are going to evolve. During the negotiation process, it will be necessary to continuously review and review the state of play, in order to have the tools to make as many good decisions as possible in the negotiation process. It is our intention to play an important role in this important exercise. I would also like to add that we are working very actively to make Belgium attractive in terms of investment. For example, at the recent Davos Summit in which I participated, we multiplied agreements with economic actors. The Brexit and its consequences were, almost every time, on the agenda of our talks. I have found – this is a positive point that needs to be highlighted – that, very often, for large companies with an international dimension, Belgium was on the shortlist of countries, in which they thought they could develop activities, in the coming years, following Brexit. This shows that we will have cards to play and assets to make: a very good location in the heart of Europe, the seat of many international institutions. A number of advantages are also recognized in the reception of expatriates, for a number of reasons including the presence of international schools, a number of points related to the multilingual nature of our population in general. This is a whole series of elements that we will have to highlight in this process. In short, it is obviously a delicate process that begins and to which we must be well prepared. We work intensively and actively. I will not fail to inform Parliament, whenever it so wishes, about the process in question. We will try to work closely with federated entities and economic actors to obtain the most useful information possible in the decisions that will have to be taken at each stage of this extremely difficult and delicate negotiation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. This is indeed an issue that will take us and occupy the political agenda almost permanently in the coming weeks. We will have a regular opportunity to take stock of this issue both in committee and in the Committee of Opinion on European Affairs. I'll join you on one aspect. The economic impact of Brexit could indeed be important for our country and the various regions that make up it. It is therefore essential that we can all work together. When I say "all together", I think about the different levels of power, whether it be the federal or the regions, in particular, through the Concertation Committee. I also think that we will have to go beyond the majority-opposition divide, given the stakes for our country. I take note of your willingness to inform Parliament on a regular basis, because it is essential that we be involved in the negotiations, the steps taken or that we be, at any rate, informed. Yesterday, we had a very interesting interview with Herman Van Rompuy, who gave us a long presentation on Brexit, as part of the hearings on the future of the European Union. As far as I am concerned, I wrote to the President of the House so that the Committee of Opinion on European Affairs could hear the High Level Group so that it could have all the necessary information. Indeed, I believe that the issue deserves to be analysed in depth. In addition, the information gathered will inform our future debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u22	Prime Minister, we agree that a global vision is more appropriate than a sectoral and parallel vision. It is also true that a transition period will be needed. Britain remains a neighbouring country, so in any case we will have to live together in various areas, not just in commercial terms. In any case, we will have to make agreements. The analysis has been done. Now our country must develop its strategic structure further. In any case, this will have to be done on an inter-federal basis. As a trade partner, Britain is now more important to Flanders than, for example, to the south of the country, but nothing precludes that tomorrow is the opposite and nothing excludes that it is very relevant to companies in the south of the country by subcontracting. An interfederal approach and strategic construction are therefore in place. In any case, if we are to negotiate in the near future, it must be clear to the United Kingdom that free trade agreements can, but not in any form whatsoever. It would be unacceptable for countries that leave the EU or countries that make agreements with the EU for the future, in addition to commercial agreements, to have no minimum standards in the area of taxation and social law. We want to compete with everyone in the world. Our country can do that perfectly, but trade must be fair trade, taxation must be fair taxation and social policy must be fair. This includes minimum standards on which we agree with countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u23	Mr Prime Minister, in De Tijd of 7 January 2017, the front page read that companies are increasingly covering themselves against hacking. They take out more than previously insurance to cover against cybercrime and computer fraud. For example, insurance broker Vanbreda stated in 2016 that he sold four times more insurance policies against cyberattacks and computer crime than the year before. The number of malicious phishing mails, malware-containing attachments, theft, false e-invoices, stolen company data etc. increases annually. This also makes society more familiar with these new forms of crime that directly affect us in private or professional terms. Businesses and organisations can be sensitised to explain companies and individuals best practices and do-it-yourself and do-it-yourself do-it-yourself do-it-yourself do-it-yourself do-it-yourself do-it-yourself do-it-yourself do-it-yourself do-it-yourself do-it-yourself do-it-yourself do-it-yourself do-it-yourself do-it-yourself do-it-yourself. Just as it is better to close the car or the front door in order not to invite thieves and burglars, so organisations and individuals can take the initiative to protect themselves. In October 2016, the CCB and the Cyber Security Coalition launched a YouTube movie that fits in with a cybersecurity awareness campaign, under the slogan "6 491 641 Belgians help cybercriminals." This figure came from a study by the University of Ghent, which showed that 68 percent of Belgians have a user profile that is more at risk of cybercrime damage, because they do not secure their computer, tablet or smartphone sufficiently or at all. Central to the campaign is the website safeonweb.be where one can analyze and compare his internet behavior with an average and where the user also gets information to improve security. Nevertheless, despite the great campaign of the CCB and the Syber Security Coalition, many people have never seen this campaign, not even in Parliament. On 22 November 2016, Mr De Bruycker gave a very interesting presentation in the Congressroom and many members were only seen for the first time. Perhaps it is right to improve and strengthen campaigns and also to frame them in a wider context by involving more organisations, such as the National Syndicate of Self-employed, UNIZO and schools. Prime Minister, how did the CCB evaluate the awareness campaign? Will there be new campaigns and if so, with which partners? In addition to sensitisation, are initiatives planned to improve the legislative framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u24	Mr Vermeulen, in October 2016, the CCB, cert.be and the Cyber Security Coalition Belgium carried out a communication campaign for cyber security under the title Take back the internet. The aim was to improve the Belgian population's cyber hygiene performance. The citizen was invited to test the security of his cyberbehavior. The awareness campaign was evaluated together with a market research agency and the aim was twofold: on the one hand, the impact of the campaign on safeonweb.be was measured, on the other hand, the impact of the campaign on the perception of online hazards was measured. The results of the campaign are encouraging and indicate that the campaign was a tool to raise people's awareness of Internet behaviour and cybersecurity, issues that are usually difficult to raise awareness about. The campaign was, I think, successful: increased awareness of safeonweb.be, both in Flanders and Wallonia, increased knowledge of and concerns about various online hazards, increased precautionary measures on professional laptops or computers. However, the campaign had no direct impact on taking precautions on other devices such as the smartphone or tablet. I will give more detailed figures in writing, but here are a few figures. + 14 % increase in systematic virus scans on professional devices. More than 1.1 million videos for the Dutch version of the video campaign and 1 million videos for the French version of the video campaign. On 5 February, the CCB will publish the results by means of a press release following the Safer Internet Day which will take place on the same day. The October 2016 campaign was part of a broader European initiative organised annually in October. As a national authority, the CCB is tasked, inter alia, with informing and sensitising users of information and communication systems. The CCB does this by holding a national awareness campaign on cybersecurity every year during this month. Given the success of the campaign and the enthusiasm of the participating partners, the CCB therefore wishes to grow this campaign and to convince more and more partners to participate in subsequent editions. Furthermore, the CCB participates actively in the meetings of the working groups of the Cybercrime expert group of the College of Attorney General, which consider, inter alia, possible legal improvements in the fight against cybercrime. However, in relation to the general public and businesses, the CCB's mission is mainly to take preventive action against cybercrime, such as awareness campaigns, the Safeonweb.be website, the realisation of a practical guide to cybersecurity and the development of a policy on responsible disclosure. Finally, in the context of the transposition of the European NIS Directive, the CCB will propose preventive safety and incident management measures to operators of essential services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u25	Mr Prime Minister, I am certainly very pleased that you say that the sensitisation campaign will not only be repetitive but will continue to grow. I would also suggest broadening awareness so that other organisations are also reached and not just an effort is made to achieve them. I am thinking, for example, of schools, because the young people currently in school will become future users in a professional environment. The sooner they are taught a safe policy, the better they will do it later. I am also thinking of small businesses. The Cyber Security Coalition is currently focused mainly on large companies. However, I believe that SMEs, civil society organisations and even youth organisations should also be involved. What I also think is very important is the reporting obligation, which may be the result of the European regulatory framework and for which we will have to take legislative initiatives. In fact, I believe that we can go even further. We have noticed that the number of accidents at work has fallen sharply when legislation required each company to carry out a risk analysis, specifically for that company, and to link an action plan to it. Perhaps we should also consider whether it is possible to require companies from a certain scale to carry out a risk analysis of their vulnerability and to link an action plan to it. I have already met a number of entrepreneurs and even consultants, and they say they are doing this de facto. So they say that they are doing their best and that it would be good if all companies of the same size were to do something similar. The combination of good government policies and good practice between companies and individuals will ensure that premiums for insurance policies will also significantly decrease.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Onkelinx's 16281 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u27	The topical and urgent debate is organised on the basis of Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure. Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure also applies here, and this provides for other speakers to be able to join the debate. The speaking time for each questioner is two minutes. The government has five minutes to respond. The groups of the questioners may no longer be in line with the debate, but the other groups may be in agreement with one speaker. They can also take the floor for two minutes, either at the questioning or at the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for addressing our request to make this a topical debate. I am a little surprised by the lack of interest from the majority parties because this is a subject which concerns us all and concerns us all. This only strengthens me in the belief that we need to discuss this thoroughly, including with the Prime Minister. I appreciated your words at the royal reception yesterday. I thought it was good and appropriate in the current context. This weekend, I was less excited. I felt it necessary to take this up with you because there was some doubt, Prime Minister, about the position of our country in the world after Trump, a Trump that feels in no way inhibited and actually brings together the most gross and scandalous things. He violates human rights at a pace reminiscent of less beautiful regimes and other parts of the world. It also reminds us of the 1930s and 1940s. At a time when the US President is imposing an entry ban on seven Muslim countries, I would think that our Prime Minister does not need a second to think about what he thinks about it and express his opinion on it in the clearest terms. It didn't. It took you a day to say something about this. Your first statements were far too hesitant, far too unclear and in this way a source of disappointment and even indignation for us. If, on top of that, it becomes clear that two of your government members seem to be considering such an entry ban, then, as I said earlier, there has been doubts about the position of our country in this debate, in fundamental matters such as this, and in the world. I cannot understand why, as Secretary of State Francken, in his first statement, at least as far as I am concerned, this measure seems to be relative. In addition, Deputy Prime Minister Jan Jambom says that we must place the measures in their context; an expression that has already been used on another subject, even at that time very unfortunate. It seems as if your majority does not find sufficient support to condemn this measure decisively and forcefully. I would like to invite you today to do this with the most powerful words and to take that conviction with you to the European forum. I invite you to take a clear position on the measures that Donald Trump is taking. If not, Europe and Belgium are at least a little bit complicit in this. My position was strengthened yesterday when I found, together with you, that the measures have an impact on fellow countrymen of ours. I noted that the Foreign Office has amended the travel advice for the United States. The acquisition of a visa for Belgians of dual nationality, who are therefore, on the one hand, Belgians and, on the other hand, nationals of one of the seven countries subject to the entry ban, is questionable. Trump's measures are not far from my bed show; they are very fundamental. They potentially affect the freedom of movement and the rights of compatriots, of Belgians in the world. I like to finish my questioning. What is your formal response to the measures taken by President Trump? What is your attitude towards the statements made by both members of the government? Can you make a strong and unequivocal condemnation of the measures today? What are the initiatives at European level? Finally, a very concrete question as to the potential impact on compatriots, what steps are you taking to reduce that impact to zero? I thank you for your answers, and I hope that you will go further than disagree with such draconian and scandalous measures against which society must stand up very actively at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, all the Democrats have been shocked by the measures taken by the new President of the United States. During the period we know, we must be careful and not let things settle down without reacting very quickly in an appropriate way. Indeed, events are getting worse. Moreover, there is a risk that the new US president may feel comforted in the positions he takes. You said you disagreed with the last measure concerning the closure of access to American territory. You disagree with the idea of banning access to American territory for nationals of seven countries. And you are committed to not implementing such a policy in Belgium. Do you think this is enough, given the seriousness of the situation and the measures that are being taken? We know where this kind of policy can lead. We know what the possible drifts are and we can almost predict the events that will follow each other in the coming months and years. So, like my colleague Kristof Calvo, I can only criticise the weakness of your reaction. And I would like you to take advantage of your presence in this committee to be much firmer and much clearer. I would also like to return to the reaction of other members of your government, which probably explains the weakness of your response. How can you accept, with your convictions, that a member of your government shares the analysis to minimize the seriousness of the measures taken and calls for a distinction between facts and hysteria? As if it were a question of hysteria! For how long can you still accept that a secretary of state in your government considers as a form of hysteria the reaction of citizens, be they Belgian, American or other, to the measures taken by President Trump? As you know, the problem is reinforced by the fact that this member of your government is not at the test and that other members of the N-VA, your majority, have also put American measures into perspective. What are you waiting for to react more firmly? What other ignoble measure does Trump need to take to make your reaction more frank? What are you going to say to Belgians who are dual nationals and who can no longer enter American territory? The case came this week: Taekwondoists were unable to exercise their sport, passion and profession. Why aren't your messages as clear as those immediately sent, for example, Justin Trudeau? This politician, whom you appreciate, has been very clear. He reacted on television and social media. He showed his diametrical opposition. I expect the same from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, the issue of Mr Trump's election and his decisions will, in my opinion, occupy the political agenda. We will often have an opportunity to discuss this in the coming months. One of its first decisions was taken against nationals of seven countries: Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen, with restrictions on access to the territory. You immediately reacted through your spokesperson, stating that you did not agree with the ban on access to the territory for nationals of these seven countries, also stating that Belgium will not take an example of this policy and that you are going to ask for explanations through diplomatic channels. Your Foreign Minister also immediately reacted, going a little further, as he described the decisions taken by the US President as "arbitrariness". He even described them as "brutal" when they apply to citizens with a regular residence permit and a visa in order. This was the first reaction of diplomacy, of you and your Minister of Foreign Affairs. To judge firmness, I join my colleagues. I'd like to know what you wrote, what you asked Trump for diplomatically. What explanations did you ask for? What was the tone of this request for explanation? It is important that we know that. This is, in any case, a very strong signal that you must give to the American President from the very beginning of his decisions. If we can salute the first reaction, it is boring that the condemnation is visibly not unanimous among the members of your government. Some members of your government have indeed minimized the measures taken by Mr. Trump. I am of course thinking of the Twitter reaction of your Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Again, the communication is not consistent on a very important issue. Again, unfortunately, we have to question you about that. This isn't the first time. Prime Minister, how can you accept that in your government, some people are distracting themselves from your reaction and that of your Minister of Foreign Affairs? Why don't you directly condemn these reactions from a member of your government team? Did you have any contact with Mr. Franken? Did you call him to order? I will conclude with a substantive question. Your Foreign Minister also said he was following the situation very closely. He adapted travel advice to provide advice to binationals in order to prevent them from being blocked. Have there ever been any cases? The case of the two champions was mentioned by my colleague. Has Belgium ever had to intervene in order to help binationals who are victims of President Trump's measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, I shall first put this in context. In June 2015, Donald Trump made the international headlines for the first time, when he called for a big big wall to be built along the Mexican border. Six months later, the whole world held its breath when he became the frontrunner during the nomination campaign for the Republican party and called for a total and complete shutdown of muslim immigration. He made it very clear that Islam was a threat to America and to the whole world. I know that many commentators and politicians called for calm, because there were enough checks and balances in the system and he would become more pragmatic once he was confronted with reality. In his capacity as president, he would do well. On Friday, however, he bewildered us by a presidential decree, which was subsequently somewhat weakened. It was not against all Muslims; it was limited to seven states and Christians and other minorities would still be given priority for a protected refugee status. Now we are discussing people who already have a green card. There is also a debate on dual nationality, which we have not yet clarified in our country either. I also hear reports that people of dual nationality are advised not to present themselves to the American embassy because they will not receive visas. Angela Merkel, you know the woman who received an honorary doctorate from two Flemish universities a few weeks ago because she is a woman with a spine, and you were also there as one of the first European leaders to respond to that entry ban. It stated that the necessary and determined fight against terrorism does not justify the prior designation of a person of a particular origin or belief as a suspect. Only when the media began to wonder out loud whether our government had anything to say, did you, Prime Minister, come up with the following statement: "Our country disagrees with the decision and will not take an example." Congratulations. The reactions of your government partners were diverse: the Open VLD was a bit indignant and found it a false signal. However, the reactions of Secretary of State Francken and Minister Jambon were somewhat foreign to the world. One says that we have to put it in its context, the other actually says that everything is relative. These are, in fact, expressions to say that we agree, but that, given his position, we cannot diplomatically say so. Prime Minister, I almost fell off my chair. The colour of the curtains or the colours in this room can be at odds, if one has to choose paint. However, one cannot disagree about a Muslim Ban.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u32	Mrs. De Coninck, can you ask your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u33	I'll finish up. It concerns violations of fundamental principles of humanity, democracy and the rule of law. For the sake of clarity, we are quite clear about that. I'll tell you why myself. I've been teaching for a long time. I have been confronted with students who asked what was wrong with them, because they say that it is all relative and that they have to put it all in context. Well, the teachers, the people who take responsibility, one has to support. It must be said clearly that we cannot put that into perspective, put it in its context, and not say that we actually disagree. We need to be much clearer, in the interests of young people, for the future. I'll come to my questions. What is the government's position? What do you think of the statements of your fellow Members who are in the government together with you? Have there been contacts at European level and a joint response is being prepared? Yesterday we heard Mr Van Rompuy in the committee and he was very emotional and clear about what he did. Have there been any diplomatic demarches? What are the concrete consequences for double-nationals? The visa criteria for Belgians going to the US would also be reviewed. What are the concrete consequences? Any contacts? Is there any clarity? What is the government's view of bilateral relations with America over the coming years? How should Europe position itself in the long term, according to the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u34	If there is no political group left to join, I shall give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this extremely important issue. In the previous question, we discussed Brexit and its consequences. There is no doubt that this election in the United States opens a new page in relations between the United States and Europe. I will touch on a few points because I hear the questioning and the trial of intent against the government from the opposition benches, which is quite natural because it is the normal game of democratic debate. However, it is necessary to put the points on the i, to clarify the contours and to send messages on the basis of objective facts. First of all, on Friday, 27 January, we are aware of the adoption of an order by the United States which, on the one hand, aims at suspending the admission of refugees to United States territory for 120 days and, on the other hand, the suspension for 90 days on United States territory of the entry of nationals of a number of identified countries. We quickly made informal contacts at European level to try to adopt as similar a tone as possible. I hear your reasoning here too: a rapid reaction outside a European concertation would have meant, in my view, and I fully assume it, a risk of division of the European Union at a time when, on the contrary, it must, on principles as strong as these, try to express the same kind of position as possible. It seems to me normal that during the few hours of Saturday, discreet and informal contacts took place with a number of European countries in order to consider how a political and diplomatic expression would be measured. Talking about opposition benches is simple. When one embodies representation within a government, there are geopolitical, security and cooperation issues that are important issues. It was necessary, for example, to try – and the work on this is still under way – to make the exact clarity on the nature of the decision taken. The government has said exactly the same thing on the subject with, it is true, different words. The words of Theo Francken and Jan Jambon cannot be used selectively. I will supplement what has been said by stating that Jan Jambon, this weekend and as Mr Reynders and I have done, has stated that this decision is legally questionable since, selectively, nationals of certain countries can no longer enter the United States. Theo Francken said that more clarity was needed with regard to this decision. Before we react strongly, let us measure the scope of this decision. Indeed, there is still the question of the exact modalities and the consequences of it. Theo Francken expressly stated that the selection of seven countries was arbitrary. These are the same words I also used during the weekend saying that it was not acceptable, that the approach was arbitrary, that we had to have more information and activate diplomatic networks. So we acted in a normal way. Acting otherwise would not have been normal. Yesterday, you were kind enough to recognize him; on the occasion of the presentation of the vows at the Royal Palace, I think, in the continuation of my remarks on the weekend, I expressed a number of considerations on the subject. I persist and sign: we disagree with this decision and we act. How, because that is what matters, beyond objective facts? First, on Monday, I immediately instructed my diplomatic adviser to meet with the American embassy to formally communicate to them my reaction as already addressed by the press during the weekend, and also to better understand the precise situation of the consequences of the announced decision. The government has informed us that we need to make an evaluation of these screening procedures for the seven countries in question. They have confirmed that for six countries this is a 90-day measure. They confirmed that for the seventh, Syria, the decision is taken until further notice. The holders of a green card are in a different situation. They can enter the United States, but can be thoroughly questioned at the airport. That's the information we got. According to the information provided by the embassy, the decision will ultimately not concern our citizens with two nationalities, contrary to what was announced. This shows that it was necessary to contact us to get more information and to be more precise. According to the latest information this morning, Foreign Affairs received two calls from double-national nationals. According to my information, those two countrymen are not affected by the decision Trump made last week. I therefore note that we had a first communication on Friday. We immediately agreed on a European level. We have organized coordinations between various ambassadors in Washington to try to have a common position within our diplomatic network in Washington. We have provided a clear and unambiguous message. It is the game of the opposition to try to make believe that there would have been nuances, differences, relativities, contexts: absolutely not. I contest this selective reading of the government's univocal messages. We will continue to monitor the situation very closely. I confirm what Parliament has said: more than ever, Europe must be united, speak with one voice and defend the values that hold us to heart. For example, the reproach we have to make is that of arbitrariness, and therefore of an approach of discrimination, of treatment that is not the same according to similar circumstances. It's a very strong reproach. We have also, along with my diplomatic advisers, pointed out these great international conventions that organize the free movement of people, to verify the intentions of this new Trump administration. On the one hand, there is a reaction to the megaphone on the part of the opposition. It is a choice that I respect; it is democracy. And then the other, there's the responsibility. It consists of saying, in a strong way, as I have done on several occasions and as I am still doing today, that we do not agree with this choice and that we disagree. These are strong words, Mr. Nollet! These are not ridiculous words. We disagree with a decision taken by a government that represents a friendly and partner country. We, together with our European colleagues, in Europe and Washington, and bilaterally with my diplomatic adviser and with Foreign Affairs, have activated all the steps to express our disagreement and explain the reasons for it, with arguments based on the values important to us, the principles of equality and non-discrimination. We are also acting to protect the interests of our fellow citizens. I would like to point out one last point to show you how closely we are following the situation. You mention a sports personality in the field of taekwondo. Please be aware that in this case, the decisions that have been made have nothing to do with the order in question. These are other reasons, as reported by the American Embassy. All this to show that we are following the situation with the required grade, file by file. I will conclude by saying that I will not receive lessons on the subject on universal values.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u36	Prime Minister, the doubt was not only in the eyes of the opposition. The question to be made clear quickly was not just a question from representatives of Green, Ecolo and the other opposition parties. If so many people have not understood you correctly, perhaps there was something wrong with your initial statement. If so many fellow countrymen have asked you at some point, even very explicitly in the media, then indeed it is only then that something has come about, to stir you up, to let you hear it, then perhaps your timing was late for such a fundamental issue. I understand that you will not say that here in committee today; you may do so in other places, but you should really let Mr Francken and Mr Jambon know that you do not appreciate that they are questioning the Belgian position in this matter. That is what they have done, what they have done before, and what they have done before. I would much rather see that there is no doubt about the Belgian position in this matter. I am also a resident of this country, and I am primarily a citizen and fellow countryman. It is about issues that are far beyond opposition and majority. I do not like the fact that our country is not sufficiently clear in this respect. As far as the impact on our compatriots is concerned, according to the information I have at my disposal today, the US Embassy is still telling us that there is an impact on persons holding dual nationality. I would ask you to follow that closely. You say that there have been contacts and I would really like to ask you to avoid that countrymen are the victims of the measure. More broadly, I repeat our plea. I believe that there is a real need for a very clear and firm Belgian and European US strategy. It should not only be about free trade, but also about human rights and climate. The time has really passed now that, as government spokesmen have also stated, we should wait and see if the man really means it and give him a chance. People really crave a clear Belgian and European position. At least that's our craving, our question. That doesn't really have much to do with opposition and majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u37	Prime Minister, at times diplomacy and coordination around communications must give way to firmness and clarity. Many of your counterparts – whether in Canada, Scotland or elsewhere in the world – have had an appropriate response, that is, a firm response. Why? Because, and you know very well, the language in politics is also made up of signals that are sent. Those you have addressed are likened to laissez-passer, a fortiori when they are supplemented by the words of one of your Secretaries of State, who considers that the reactions expressed by us as well as by fellow citizens and associations in the United States are a form of hysteria. We understand the signal that has been sent and that you are covering, since the person concerned is part of your government. Today, you raise your tone; it's a little easy. As regards the content and the time you have taken to react, I believe that this weekend you have not been able to live up to what the Belgians are entitled to expect from you, and not just those who have dual nationality. I am talking about all our compatriots, who are more than shocked by the situation in the United States and who ask their government to react much more firmly than you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. As I pointed out, in order to judge firmness, we needed to have information about what was done. Your answer develops two points that I can understand: the measures that have been taken and the consistent communication of your government. Indeed, I believe that it is necessary to have informal contact at European level, as you have done, in order to try to benefit from uniform communication. I note that you also contacted the embassy to submit the point of view you had defended in the press. It will be a matter of continuing in this direction. Unfortunately, I cannot agree with your attitude when you talk about uniformity in communication. Mr. Franken's tweet in which he minimized Donald Trump's decisions was very clear. Without this incident, the questions would have been trivial: what do you think? What measures have been taken by our diplomats, as was the case in other cases? What applications have you submitted? And you would have answered us. Today's topical debate has been sparked by the statements made by Mr Franken. Unfortunately, this is not the first time. Maybe I could make a suggestion. You have already taken over a few cases, such as the new corporate tax and the taxation of capital gains. You could do the same for the communication and Twitter account of your Secretary of State, Mr Franken. This will prevent us from seeing each other on a regular basis to try to extinguish the fires that he continues to cause unpunishedly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u39	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. You think it is excellent that there has been a lot of consultation on the dossier with the other European Member States and a lot of actors. I think that is a great step forward and hope that you will not be divided into Europe. However, I regret that you are again choosing the slopes of opposition against majority. We simply want to make it clear that if you are asked for a response, you will make it clear what your principle is and that you will test the decision against that principle. I understand that you first want to look into what exactly has been decided, but you must first state clearly what the border is for you. For us, the border is the Muslim Ban. I also think that you should agree in the government not to tolerate communication that one can go in all directions afterwards. Too often, this has happened around too many files, which increases mistrust. I tell you that not only from the point of view of the opposition. Furthermore, you argue that you are first careful to react more and more punitively. The opposite is also true, of course. I think we might be able to convince the U.S. President to change his decision by responding to the penalty. Action and response are not insignificant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic579x.u40	If there is one thing that is clear, after ten days Donald Trump, as President, there is a lot of confusion about the policies pursued, both internally and abroad, because of the pace with which he makes a number of decisions, their content and style. We can respond very quickly, which is sometimes asked, without really knowing what the size is and for whom exactly the consequences are felt, as the Prime Minister rightly points out. Moreover, we have to note that the communication and content of the decisions taken are adjusted daily, so that we still do not know the exact content of the decisions. There are still questions left. I heard Mr Calvo, who has already left, say that doubt is being sown. No, that is not the case at all. Anyone who rereads or rehearses the exact words of Jan Jambon, Theo Francken and also Geert Bourgeois, the Flemish Prime Minister, and does not selectively take out what matters, will find that there is no doubt. I think they were very clear.
