ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u1	Mr Minister, the Court of Auditors has come to present to us in the Panama Papers Committee its analysis of the reports transmitted to it by the Ministers of Justice, Interior and Finance concerning the implementation of the recommendations of the 2009 Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on major tax fraud cases. The Court's findings are not reassuring and should be debated in committee. First of all, I would like to ask you about the real figures of the commitments at the ISI. We have read in the press that you do not want to comment on the policy and results of previous governments in the fight against tax fraud. On the other hand, you stressed that recent results show that the ISI is more effective than ever and that a record number of files are processed for higher amounts and more real perceptions. These good results would be partly the result of 100 new ISI officers being hired. Mr Minister, the Court of Auditors does not have the same reading and I have been questioned by the figures it has given us in terms of numbers. Thus, if we are systematically informed of the commitments that are being made, we are not aware of the departures. The net figures are therefore quite different. Here are the figures that are presented by the Court: in 2016, 24 departures took place for 15 recruitments. With regard to internal mobility, there are 10 departures for 5 arrivals. In total, therefore, there are 14 fewer people in this service. Minister, what is the current staffing situation at the ISI? How do you explain the figures put forward by the Court of Auditors with regard to the 100 recruitments you are announcing? In total, for 2016, do you confirm that these are actually 14 fewer people in the ISI to fight tax evasion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u2	Mr Dispa, dated 15 March 2017, the situation of ISI staff is 649 employees (central and external services). It is important to distinguish between recruitment (the specific quota of 100 new colleagues decided in 2015) and natural departures (pension, resignation, internal mobility, etc.) ISI, like any other administration, is confronted with. Hereinafter, I inform you of the evolution of the staff of the ISI on 31 December of each year: in 2014, 608 employees; in 2015, 664 employees; in 2016, 649 employees. You were almost right: the difference between 164 and 149 is not 14 but 15. Thanks to the 100 additional commitments, we remain well above the 2014 level. As a result, the ISI workforce has undoubtedly changed positively despite the relatively large natural departures within this service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u3	We make the numbers say absolutely what we want. Between 2015 and 2016, you confirm a larger drop (than I had not calculated) in the order of 15 units. Despite this, you maintain that evolution appears to you to be positive. [[In any case, we are very, very far from the 100-person reinforcement you have announced.]] In this respect, we must be transparent. Your answer is, and I thank you for that. But the announcement effects on the recruitment of an additional 100 agents, as if the resources of the ISI were to be boosted, are misleading. The numbers you have just given me confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u4	Questions Nos 17980 and 17981 by Mr Vanvelthoven have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u5	Minister, in your reply to my questions at the Finance Committee on 22 March, you said that you have a new refined analysis of the budgetary impact of reducing the reference rate of the notional interest deduction. This new analysis would justify a budgetary correction of EUR 325 million. I therefore immediately asked the chairman to make this note available to the committee. The President passed this question on to you, but your answer was disappointing. You said that the note will be delivered to the Court of Auditors and only then will Members be able to request the note from the Court of Auditors. This means that we can't get the note until the Court of Auditors' report is ready. I do not understand why you cannot now make this note available to the committee. That is why I repeat my question, Minister. Could you make the new refined analysis of the budgetary impact available to the Finance Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u6	Mrs Temmerman, I will reply the same thing in essence. As in previous cases, the FPS Finance and my policy cell have provided the Court with more detailed information on a number of elements, including the method of calculating the estimated budgetary impact of virtually all tax corrections or measures taken in the recent budgetary control. This included a calculation note relating to the notional interest deduction, the interest rate and the other elements having an impact on what could reasonably be expected and which is also included in the budget as an impact of the notional interest deduction on tax revenue. I think it is a good thing that this time too we stick to this transparent procedure, which is the same every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u7	Minister, I do not understand what is transparent about this. You announced about a month ago that you have a note of the calculations. Parliament will only have access to that note a month later. We will not get that note directly from you, but we will have to ask the Court of Auditors by way of a detour. You think that's a transparent method of working?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u8	I think this is always the case when it comes to budgetary measures. First there is the explanation and the commentary of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u9	Minister, that is not the case. It happens when the Court of Auditors itself asks you for the note and then we have questions afterwards. However, you yourself said in your speech that you had the note and I immediately asked for it. That's completely different from the Court of Auditors you're asking for the note. I asked you to do that as a Member of Parliament. You yourself said that you have a new way of calculating these matters, that you have the note. The only thing I am asking you is that this is very transparent and that you can make this note available. You are actually saying no, I am not giving it to Parliament, I am giving it to the Court of Auditors if it so requests. Mr Minister, if the Court of Auditors does not ask for it, then we in Parliament simply do not get this calculation. By the way, in the past we have also asked for the calculation of the caiman tax, but we never got it. The Court of Auditors also asked you for the calculation and the Court of Auditors did not receive it. If you yourself say that you have a note, I do not understand why Parliament cannot have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u10	Minister, in September last year you had had enough; you were tired of criticizing tax revenue; the disappointing tax revenue was not your fault but that of your administration. So you said with a great deal of force I quote: "I have asked my administration to make a thorough analysis of how the revenue is estimated and what appears: there is a systemic error in that. That was your decision. In the notifications of the 2017 budget format, we read that a task force would be set up to review the method of estimation against the next budgetary control. That was the government's decision on your proposal. We are now working on that next budgetary control in March 2017. In the meantime, the government has submitted the documents relating to budgetary control in Parliament. At the committee meeting of 14 March 2017, it was decided to hold an exchange of views with you on the method of estimating tax revenue. At that time, you stated that the review of the method of estimation has not yet been carried out. Firstly, does it mean that budgetary control is based on the old, and in your opinion wrong, model of estimation used for budgetary control? Secondly, is the task force now ready to review the method of estimation? Can we receive the relevant notes on this and then discuss them with you in committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u11	Ms Temmerman, the task force to which you refer, held a number of meetings for the Budget Conclave of March 2017, including on 20 February, 6 March and 13 March. Indeed, the Task Force found that in the period considered, namely 2006-2015, the tax revenue estimated in the initial budgets almost always had to be adjusted downwards. Ex-post, therefore, there are always major deviations between the initial budget estimates and the achievements, not only large deviations, but also almost systematic deviations in one direction. In order to identify the causes of these deviations between estimates and achievements of tax revenue, a comprehensive analysis should be carried out, splitting the estimate deviation between the different causes as far as possible. There are five elements: a deviation in the starting point, a deviation in the framework economic estimates, a deviation in the estimation method itself, a deviation in the assessment of the impact of the measures and other technical factors and a discretionary decision taken after the initial budget has been drawn up. You understand that this is a very detailed, meticulous work. After intensive discussion and analysis work, it has been found that the analysis to be made is much broader than merely looking at the technique of the estimation model of the FPS Finance itself. The current model is still being worked on. There is no point in launching a model that has not been completed in all its facets, I have just quoted some of them and has not been verified by third parties on its merits. The current budget control was still working on the old model, hence the installation of a buffer, specifically for tax revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u12	In fact, you are saying that the current control, which we are about to discuss, is actually based on incorrect figures or erroneous assumptions? You said that it would be all right against the budgetary control of March 2017. So it's not. We will wait and see what the Court of Auditors has to say about this. My next question was whether, when the task force is finished, we can receive the relevant notes on this and discuss them here in our committee? You were talking about transparency. Here it deals with a method of calculation. I do not think there can be any problem of transparency in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u13	I assume that the discussion will take place in due course, once the task force has drawn up its conclusions. At that time, what needs to be put on the table will be put on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u14	Minister, is that a yes or a no?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u15	That's a yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u16	The task force should be able to complete its work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u17	When the work is done, we'll have the Minister's permission to discuss it here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u18	We will certainly raise that point!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u19	Mr President, Minister, a property-related service takes place where the property is located. In order to further clarify this localisation rule for services relating to immovable property, as set out in Article 47 of EU Directive 2006/112/EC, the European Commission adopted a Regulation laying down the following: Services relating to immovable property, as referred to in Article 47 of the Directive, concern only services which are sufficiently directly related to the immovable property. Services shall be considered to have a sufficiently direct relationship with the real estate in the following cases. Where they are derived from an immovable property and this property is part of the service and is central to and essential to the services provided. Where they are carried out before or are aimed at an immovable property for the purpose of legal or physical modification of that property. Paragraph 1 shall cover in particular the following: •Intermediation in the sale, leasing or rental of immovable property and in the establishment or transfer of certain rights to immovable property or rights in rem on immovable property, whether or not equivalent to physical property, other than mediation covered by paragraph 3 (d), the mediation in the provision of accommodation in hotels, holiday camps and campsites. This Regulation and the accompanying explanatory memorandum show that only the mediation in the case of the sale, leasing or rental of immovable property follows the localisation rules on immovable property. A service consisting of mediation or intervention in bringing together contractors who have too much work and want to work with subcontractors for that reason cannot be classified as a service with a sufficient connection to an immovable property of its nature. The intervention itself is central to the provision of services and not to the real estate covered by subcontracting. On the basis of the above, this mediation service shall take place in accordance with the general b2b localisation rule. Minister, can you confirm this view? If so, will you provide us with more clarification? If not, can you tell us which scheme does apply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u20	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, I will do my best. The provision of the VAT Directive on the location of services can only apply if the service has a sufficiently direct connection with an immovable property. Many services may in one way or another relate to real estate, but a minor or incidental link is not enough. The sufficiently direct link required for a service to be used on a immovable property is specified in the EU Implementing Regulation No. 1042/2013, which entered into force on 1 January 2017. This Regulation also includes a non-limitative list of examples of transactions which can be considered as services having a sufficiently direct connection with an immovable property. In concrete terms, these must be services the result of which results from the real estate or where the real estate is central to the service provided for the property. In any case, the service must be related to one or more specific immovable property. The qualification of a service ultimately depends on the actual factual and legal circumstances. The act on which you would like to hear my opinion is unfortunately too vague, but when you refer, for example, to the services of a yard coordinator responsible for looking up and contacting qualified contractors in the preparation phase of a particular yard, in my opinion, there is a sufficiently direct connection with the real estate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u21	Mr Minister, that was indeed the case I wanted to discuss. Apparently you can answer more than questions, you can already read minds. That's wonderful. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u22	Mr President, I do not often come to the Finance Committee, but when I am there, it is usually for the DAVO, like my fellow questioners, I understand. You know, Minister, that we are following the way in which the DAVO operates. During the past legislature, CD&V has been able to make some improvements to improve accessibility and to give more people the opportunity to make effective use of child support advances. A number of instruments were also provided to achieve more efficient recovery. We found that the DAVO was doing a good job and that, perhaps as a result of this legislative amendment, the number of advances granted increased. However, there is always room for improvement. That's what we always assume. It is also regularly found that the range is still not maximum or not very good. I know that information doesn't come until people get into a situation. At that moment, the information is getting further. Now it turns out that you are smart enough to evolve into one DAVO office per province from September 2017. This decision was protested by the Platform Alimony Fund, the Women's Council and the Family Association. They called for the DAVO to be made more public and for procedures to be simplified. Mr Minister, on the one hand, I understand that, at a time when computerisation and working via websites and that is more easy and accessible, you wonder why so many offices are still needed. On the other hand, it appears that people sometimes need to be able to go on the ground and provide information. If the reform, which involves moving to 11 contact points, appears to raise the threshold, unless, as the OMCWs are actually doing today for a part of the public eligible for assistance from the DAVO, those concerned are assisted in submitting the application forms via websites and other channels. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. Firstly, is it true that the DAVO offices will be reduced to 11 units? What are the reasons for implementing this reform? If you answer that these offices are reducing effectively, does this mean that the people who were active there are being deployed elsewhere, namely more in the back office and could therefore answer more requests? Secondly, what measures will you take to compensate for the closure of offices, to further ensure the quality and proximity of such services and to ensure their accessibility without any reduction? If you called on the OCMWFs, this would seriously increase the workload for the OCMWFs. Moreover, the clientele of DAVO does not fully correspond to the OCMW clientele. The clientele of the DAVO is not always used to crossing the threshold to the OCMW. Thirdly, on this subject, I have also examined this through the evaluation committee of the DAVO, of which I am a member. The report of the evaluation committee states that a new meeting would take place in March or April. Perhaps the invitation to that meeting ended up in my spambox just like last time, for which I apologize, but I'm not quite sure if we've already received an invitation. Can you tell us about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u23	Mr President, Minister, in the Committee on Health, Secretary of State Demir has proposed and I follow up her policy letter for the poverty section. On that occasion, about a month ago, in unsuspecting times, I called for her to address the problem of poverty in single-parent families, and I added that DAVO plays an important role in this. We see today that more than one in three of the single people with children are in poverty today, and in most of these cases it is women with children. In addition, as we know from figures that Mrs Demir has confirmed, women often have to live on a small income or benefit. If the child support money is not paid for those parents, then there is a big problem. This will make it easier for those concerned to find themselves in poverty. That is why, a month ago, I called for consultation with you to increase the accessibility of the DAVO. At the time, we were based on 23 offices and I said that this number of offices was actually insufficient, because the DAVO would be better organised at local level. She's not qualified. You are responsible for the DAVO and for its accessibility, hence my questions. I think it is important in the context of poverty reduction that you keep access to DAVO as low as possible. People should be able to obtain information about the DAVO in their own municipality, as the application can be submitted and have it calculated whether they are eligible. This is preferably done in the social house or possibly in the social service of the municipality, but in principle I think the OCMW is best placed to do so, I was surprised when I heard the news that instead of increasing accessibility, you apparently saw the need to go from 23 to 11 offices. Will this indeed be the case from September? How do you see that? How can access be achieved at the same time? In my opinion, this can perfectly be an en-en-story, namely to focus on a performance administration, an administrative support that can possibly be centralised per province and at the same time ensure that the low-threshold is maintained or introduced, ensuring that there is cooperation with the OCMWs, that everyone can turn to the OCMW for their application; which is no longer the case today. The drawing of how access is increased will have to be recreated. It is not enough to mention that it can be filled out online. Many people can't fill that out online, don't find their way, don't know if they're entitled to it, so keep that as low as possible. So my question is whether you can agree to bring it back to the level of local authorities. In this respect, I think I should give a particular role to the OMCWs. Can you contact the VVSG and the French-speaking counterpart to discuss this if necessary? My second question concerns the evaluation committee. The latest report dates back to 2010. A new evaluation committee was launched on 7 December 2016. Has he met yet? When are the meetings scheduled? When is the report expected? What problems and bottlenecks will be dealt with by the evaluation committee? My final question about the DAVO is the following. At present, people who do not earn more than EUR 1 800 net per month, plus EUR 67 per dependent child, can call on the DAVO. Then you can get a maximum of 175 euros per child. That amount used to be even lower. It's been raised at the request of CD&V. Sonja Becq has also worked on this. However, it is a story of all or nothing. If you are under EUR 1 800, you can call on the DAVO, if you are above it and if you happen to have EUR 100 or 200 more, you will not get that intervention. If, however, the amount obtained is included, then we actually get a distortion. Sometimes, for example, people get a raise of EUR 30, which means that suddenly they are no longer entitled to DAVO intervention. To tackle this problem, I actually want to propose a gradual ceiling that grows along with it. Now it's up to 1 800, all or nothing. With an income of EUR 1 900 one could get an advance from the DAVO but not the full EUR 175 per child. As one gets more than that one can have a limit on it one gets something from the DAVO but not the full amount anymore. I understand there has to be a social correction. I have no problem with that, CD&V is absolutely behind it. People who really need it should be able to get more. Now, however, it is absurd, when one sits just above it, one gets nothing or nothing. It could put people back into poverty. So my question is whether you think it is a good idea to make an adjustment so that a gradual ceiling is introduced. What are you proposing to do to improve the adequacy of advances? Did you ask the evaluation committee to think about this as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u24	Mr President, Minister, last week, following the report by the evaluation committee, we were able to hear some concerns about the operation of the DAVO. The concerns have already been mentioned here. So there is accessibility. It is true that a reduction in the number of offices was announced before the end of the year. In my view, this does not necessarily mean that accessibility will be restricted. On the contrary, the evaluation committee made it clear in its report that OMCWFs will play their role as the most accessible party. I believe that people will find their way to the OCMW much faster than to a DAVO office. Apparently, that's not so familiar. Every municipality has an OCMW but certainly not every municipality currently has a DAVO office, let alone people know where. I believe that the report by the evaluation committee, which was populated by a number of advisers from this Chamber, including Mrs Becq and myself, was very interesting in that respect, although a second invitation is indeed awaited. For example, it is found that advances on the fees are only recovered at 36%. That is something we must keep in mind so that there is no distortion. Let's be clear, anyone can go to DAVO, regardless of income. The difference is that only people with an income of less than EUR 1 867 can receive advances. But everyone is welcome to receive the service of the judgment or to be impounded as a maintenance agent. That's a nuance I wish to make. I believe that the most important thing is that we, as legislators, not only make the DAVO public. This was already done through the law of 2010, which provides for the objectification of maintenance contributions. It literally states that any judgment must include the existence of the DAVO. In principle, a judgment which includes maintenance fees and maintenance obligations will also state the existence of the DAVO. This applies as a huge announcement to the public to whom this should end up. What also needs to be made known is the existence of wage delegation, of salary authorisation. Persons entitled to maintenance must exhaust their ability to go directly to the maintenance fee where necessary, being with the creditors. Minister, do you see an opportunity to make the recovery process simpler and more efficient? If so, how? Do you agree with me that the possibility of direct collection of maintenance contributions due through salary delegation can lead to a reduction in workload and greater efficiency for the DAVO? Are you aware of the abuses of making it inability to do so? If so, how will you proceed? Have you had any contact with the Minister of Justice about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u25	Mr President, it is not often that I get questions from three ladies on one subject. I'll try to answer properly. In summary, the themes are: the closure of the points of contact, the evaluation committee and the income ceiling. Since 2014, the DAVO has been integrated into the General Administration of the Collection and Recovery and is also following the reorganisation of the services of this administration. The tasks relating to the submission of an application for compensation, the compilation of a file and its handling will thus indeed be ensured within 11 information centres of the general administration. These information centres will be the first contact point to respond to the various requests made by citizens, in particular with regard to DAVO. In order to provide the best possible assistance to those entitled to benefit from the service, each information centre will have a back office with staff specializing in the matters, including staff from the DAVO, who will assist and assist them during the submission of their application and the preparation of the files. I repeat, as I did last Thursday in plenary, that the services of the DAVO will certainly not be reduced. In addition, DAVO also follows the digitisation, like the other administration of the FPS Finance. The application form, as well as the application or renewal of the right to advance payments on maintenance fees, have been available in electronic form on the website of the DAVO and of the FPS in general since July 2016. These applications can be made online ever since. The provision of such forms online will allow certain institutions, including the OCMWFs, to whom the DAVO target group is certainly addressing, among other things, to assist the beneficiaries in completing and sending this form directly. By the way, the OCMWFs were extensively informed about these forms and how best to deal with them during an extensive information session organised by the General Administration of Innings and Recoverys in January. The OMCWs could indeed participate in the intake of the files, including the renewal of the advances, but in order to maintain clarity in the financial flows, the advance payments and recovery should preferably remain with the FPS. With regard to the evaluation committee, I can inform you that the next meeting will take place shortly. The evaluation report is under way. This meeting will therefore take place over the next few weeks. However, it is still too early to identify clearly which bottlenecks and recommendations will be the subject of the ongoing evaluation process and thus of the report. This will depend, among other things, on the points raised by the members' advisers, Members of Parliament and representatives of the interest groups. With regard to the income ceiling for the granting of advances, any gradual change in the income ceiling for the granting of advances, which may be significant, has budgetary implications. As you know, the DAVO's evaluation committee has the task of evaluating the law and the functioning of the DAVO and of drawing up an evaluation report for the Finance and Budget Ministers, as well as providing them with clear advice. It does not therefore fall directly within the competence of the committee to intervene in this area. However, I think it is indeed necessary to think seriously about these matters and their suggestions. I am thinking of the cut-off limit of EUR 1 800 and so on. My proposal would be this. Professor Pacolet of the Higher Institute of Labour in Leuven made a study in 2012 on the budgetary impact of the granting of advance payments from the Alimony Claims Service. We need to update this study. In this context, we can very explicitly request that the proposals made by all three of you in a particular context be evaluated, and I am thinking of the cut-off limit of EUR 1 800, of the salary delegation and such a subsidy, so that we have an objective basis to see, for example, the budgetary consequences of certain measures and to know what we are talking about. That is my concrete proposal to update that study and to integrate certain specific proposals that we can discuss together. In the questions you have already given a nice impetus to that. Mrs Uyttersprot, you submitted your question at 10:30 this morning. I will come back to a number of aspects of your question later, I promise. I hope you won't get mad at me or my staff because they couldn't handle those answers before the start of the committee in a proper way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It remains important that the OCMW public is not equal to the DAVO public. I think this is an important element that should be included in accessibility. It's not obvious that OCMW's can alert anyone. Everyone goes by the OCMW. There'll probably be a bottleneck there. In addition, you would like to issue a new order. I think that's very good. On the basis of this study, we held a very extensive and detailed discussion in the Committee on Equal Opportunities in 2014. So that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and the openness to listen to a number of suggestions. You say that the 11 offices remain the first contact points. We just hope that this will be the second line. I have absolutely no problem with the fact that the payout will take place there and the expertise will be centralised, but it is important that the first point of contact for people moves to the local level. I am therefore pleased that you are prepared to review the cooperation with the OCMWFs. The OCMW may do so for their OCMW customers. A woman who works and has a small income is not a client of the OCMW and is not known there. She may not even know that the OCMW can help her. Access at the local level must therefore be improved. The mandate of the OMCW and perhaps soon the Social House should go much wider. I hope you will look at this so that it goes wider and becomes the first point of contact. This allows your administration to focus on expertise, support and payout. However, the point of contact should be taken over by local authorities so that people from Essen or Kalmthout do not have to go to the Italylei in Antwerp to submit their application. I am glad that you show some openness in this matter. Secondly, I am pleased that you would like my proposal for a graduated ceiling to be reviewed by Professor Pacolet. Do you have any idea what period we're talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u28	I'll contact him for that. We must, of course, play it right in the area of public procurement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u29	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u30	I'll back up on that. I have not yet made any further contacts on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u31	It seems to me really important that we do not create a new kind of unemployment or DAVO trap because people fall out of the boat if they just make a little too much money. Anyone can go to DAVO, but I was talking about the advances. People sometimes need advances. Sometimes it takes years to wait for someone to pay their alimony. By then, people will be in misery and poverty. We must break this vicious circle by intervening in good time and giving people the right to an advance. It is mainly about keeping the standard of living of a father or mother with children as best as possible. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u32	Minister, you are forgiven for the questions. In the Committee on Justice, habits are different, and that is the reason for late shipping. Too many maintenance agents are still exempt today from their maintenance obligation, which has been concluded by judgment or agreement. Vonnies are there to be observed. A while ago, I asked the Minister of Justice for figures on that non-payment. Turns out there's seven complaints a day from the police about the non-payment. That is a huge problem which we must bear in mind. At the moment, there is a little too little attention being paid to this. Just as DAVO is too little known, the possibility of wage delegation or salary authorisation is also too little known. If a person does not pay maintenance fees for a period of 12 months for two months, a request may be made to the family judge to have that remuneration granted automatically. Unfortunately, this measure is hardly being used or not being used. Unfortunately, the figures on the use of that article are not known, but practice shows that this measure is unknown. We have therefore tabled a legislative proposal to include, as the DAVO clause is included in every judgment, the notification of the possibility of a wage delegation in every judgment. DAVO obviously has a greater use, but DAVO still has to be a safety net in principle. The debtor is still personally responsible for his own children. Only when there is absolutely no possibility should DAVO come up. It is certainly positive that consideration is being given to whether this will be examined or whether there is a possibility of doing so regardless of income. Thank you very much for your helpful and comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u33	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, for ethical reasons, since January 1, 2017, departmental officials, I am told, would no longer be allowed to process the files of one of their colleagues, particularly in the event of appeals or even complaints. When a German-speaking official brought an action, his colleagues in the German-speaking Community could therefore no longer intervene and his case would be dealt with by another directorate and, apparently, by the management of the AGFisc in Liège, where the entire staff was nevertheless French-speaking. However, according to the Law on the Use of Languages, the language of the taxpayer must be applied, otherwise a legally justified decision cannot be taken. While I welcome the amendment for ethical reasons, in this case there is a problem because, in theory, French-speaking agents cannot rule in the German language. Minister, are you aware of the above problem? How do you intend to solve this problem, which primarily concerns German-speaking civil servants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, it is true that, in order to reinforce the ethical requirements for the integrated processing of FPS Finance officers' files, it has been planned to transfer the personal file of agents working in one centre of the general tax administration to another centre of the same administration in the case of controls and litigation resulting from persistent disagreement. However, linguistic legislation must be respected. Thus, it is envisaged that the files of the Eupen agents will remain processed by the Eupen centre under the control of the centre of Liège. In addition, these files can also be processed by an agent of a Malmedy team with the language certificate guaranteeing his ability to manage the file in German.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u35	Minister, thank you for this very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Deseyn's 18405 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u37	Minister, during the hearings in the Chamber on the new insolvency legislation, some speakers criticised the Deposit and Consignation Cash, which they found to be an archaic institution. The institution is responsible for managing deposits, consignations, deposits and dormant funds, dematerialisation of bearer securities and managing the National Office of Moving Values. In addition, there are also the judicial consignations. These include fees for expropriation of general utility, bankruptcy funds, funds belonging to minors and incompetent persons, cantons and all custody orders by the court. On the basis of this incomplete list, we must note that the greenhouse has a very important role to play. I was therefore concerned to hear from the speakers that the working method is apparently no longer our time. First of all, are you aware of the complaints about the way in which the Deposit and Consignation Cash operates? If yes, can you give an overview of the most commonly heard complaints? Secondly, what could one mean by the old-fashioned way of doing things? Thirdly, could one of the causes be a lack of staff? How many people are working there right now? Fourthly, how many operations are taking place there every year? We heard, among other things, that sometimes people only get a phone call after six months, which also raises the question of what it is. If there are a lot of transactions, I think that is possible. How many transactions are we talking about? Do you have an idea of the total turnover? Fifth, do you think there should be intervention? If so, are you planning an initiative to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u38	Mr Janssens, you had five questions. I'll answer the first two together and the rest separately. As far as your first two questions are concerned, the number of complaints about the way in which the Deposit and Notification Cash works is generally limited. In the majority of cases, it concerns complaints in individual files where due to particular circumstances, e.g. a very complex file or files missing important data, there was a longer treatment period, or a disputed payment or non-payment by the deposit fund. You state that during the hearings in the Chamber on the new insolvency legislation, some speakers suggested that the Deposit and Consignation Cash Office would be an archaic institution. If by that you mean old-fashioned or old-fashioned, I agree with you. It is clear that the way in which some curators work must be changed. The current management of the Treasury and the DCK is fully aware of this and wants to carry out a thorough restructuring. A major project of reorganisation was launched in 2016. I shall return to that in reply to your fifth question. As far as your third question is concerned, non-automated file processing is indeed a labour-intensive process. At present, 65 staff are employed. That's 57.2 full-time equivalents. At the end of 2015 it was decided to centralise the management of the judicial constituents at the DCK in Brussels from 4 January 2016. The transfer of the Brussels agency and its six employees was carried out at the end of September 2015. 15 new employees were recruited. The acquisition of the powers of the agencies per former judicial district resulted in a great deal of extra work due to the considerable delay in the processing of files. There is no shortage of staff at the moment. Now I come to your fourth question. In 2016, 31 562 new files were opened. On 31 December 2016, the deposit fund had the following amounts under management. I assume it will be enough for you if I read out the sums that have been rounded up. The exact amounts are available to you in a written reply. It is EUR 1.8 billion for the judicial authorities. EUR 815 million is involved in the case of Eurodeposit debt securities. For involuntary out-of-possession, this amounts to EUR 141.5 million. For bonds, EUR 244.6 million is involved. For dormant assets, this amounts to EUR 427 million. Dematerialisation amounts to EUR 243.7 million. Now I come to your final question, also following on from the first two questions. As already indicated, in 2016, the Deposit and Consignation Cash started a new project aimed at a total reorganisation of its operation and its organisation. Dematerialization and dormant assets, to which I just referred, have already been largely computerized. The bankruptcies follow as I explained earlier. In concrete terms, the project will make a profound change to the current functioning of the different categories of deposit guarantors, guarantors and judicial assignments. The ultimate objective of this project is the thorough modernisation of the DCK and the allocation of permanent IT tools. These tools will have to allow both citizens and public and private organisations to contact the Deposit and Consignation Cash online. In the course of this year, I will try to propose a revision and a complete reform of the Deposit and Consignation Cash Act within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your full and open answer. Anything can be better. We just heard the story of DAVO. I hear there's some movement for the Deposit and Consignation Cash too. I can only support you in that initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 18417 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u41	Minister, I would like to ask you one more question about the so-called tax retirement. The tax burden on pensions and replacement income is reduced by the granting of tax reductions for those groups. On the one hand, there is a normal tax reduction for pensions and replacement income. It is not enough to reduce the tax on low pensions and replacement income to zero. Taxable persons whose taxable income consists exclusively of a pension or a replacement income are therefore granted an additional reduction. On the other hand, there is the additional tax reduction for pensions and replacement income. This reduces the tax burden on low pensions and replacement income to zero for taxpayers who have only such income. The total net income may not exceed a number of limits. For unemployment benefits, this amounts to EUR 17 569. For pensions and other replacement income, this amounts to EUR 15 518. For sickness and invalidity income, this amounts to EUR 17 242. When income exceeds that limit, a phasing-out rule is applied. The remaining tax shall not exceed the income exceeding the upper limit. This principle is not always applied in practice, because Article 154 of the Income Tax Code 1992 ensures that there is a net loss for different incomes in that case, or that there is no net excess, even if there is an increase. This is called the tax pension trap: one gets more, but in the end one doesn't survive or even gets caught up in it. In her policy paper, your colleague for the fight against poverty rightly called for poverty reduction and additional support for low incomes, which we fully support. Moreover, I have tabled several legislative proposals on this subject myself, in order to increase the lowest benefits, which is also contained in the government agreement. I therefore have a number of questions about the pension trap, which may be unintentional. After all, it is never the intention of the legislator to let people, when they receive something, get the result that they get less money or have nothing left. That's not the point. Can you therefore clarify whether you will resolve the problem of the additional tax reduction for pensions and replacement income? Have you worked out a proposal yet? If so, what does the proposal look like? What are the contours? What's the timing? If you have worked out a proposal, is this a structural solution to tackle the problem, or do you think it is rather a temporary solution? If this is a temporary measure, is the second step for you to propose a structural measure which also takes into account, among other things, the legally resident persons and married persons, as well as the taxable persons who have a small income from movable or immovable property and taxpayers who have a small additional income after their retirement? Thus, the target group is wider.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u42	Ms Lanjri, in 2015, the calculation of the additional reduction for pensions and replacement income was already adjusted, so that for the taxable person whose total net income consists solely of pensions and replacement income or solely of the statutory sickness and invalidity benefit, the additional municipal taxes were included in the calculation. However, this new method of calculation does not prevent, in all cases, an increase in gross income leading to a decrease in net post-tax income. The Finance Policy Cell, in close consultation with the Minister of Pensions' policy cell, has prepared a legislative amendment to solve this problem. This is a very technical and complex matter. This change is currently being discussed within the government. I can tell you that at least this is intended to provide a structural solution to this problem, but you can understand that I would like to have this discussion within the government before communicating extensively, also because this is a technically complex matter. I repeat that we very much want a structural solution. I think we are close to that today. It's a matter of days, up to weeks. We're really finalizing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic665x.u43	Minister, I understand that you are working on the problem that remains, despite the changes that have been made. Unfortunately, you cannot tell me any more about the outline of the solution, probably because there is no full agreement yet. I can accept that, but I would like to call for a solution to be found in the short term, and indeed for a structural solution, so that we do not have to do it twice. It's only logical that people get what they deserve. If they get extra holiday money, or anything else, then that should not mean that they suddenly have net less left. The group that is already struggling, those with a small pension or those with a benefit, should not be the victims of this. So I do hope that you will soon be able to find a solution in the government so that you can help this group of people.
