ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 18667 by Mrs Willaert, who is ill, lapses. Debates of the European Parliament Ms Jiroflée's 20036 is hereby repealed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, my question dates from May 23rd. At the time of submission, the events at DG Persons with Disabilities were not very positive in the news. The service was too short due to problems with new software combined with a shortage of staff. When you arrived, you immediately took action to find a solution. Funds were made available for the recruitment of additional staff working in June/July. This was to ensure that the telephone reachability was back on track. The federal service was virtually unreachable during the first three months of this year. Although the phone has been re-recorded since spring, some calls still remain unanswered, especially calls from Flanders. Apparently it was especially difficult from Flanders to enter the service. Madam Secretary of State, is it true that fewer Dutch-speaking than French-speaking calls were answered by DG Persons with Disabilities? Then what's the cause of that? What do you think you're gonna do about this crookedness if it existed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, my question was also tabled a long time ago, particularly on 17 May. Meanwhile, we have been working on the problem, we have been able to hear through the media. This question was pointed out to me by a number of parents of adult people with disabilities. They receive an income replacement allowance and integration allowance through the Social Security Office. Where the person resides in a healthcare institution, part of that allowance shall be paid directly to the healthcare provider. However, if the person with a restriction lives outside the provision for certain periods, a proportional proportion shall be paid back directly to the beneficiary during the following year. That appears to have been delayed during the first trimester, because that money did not come. In the meantime, I have heard that progress has been made, but the repayment is taking longer and longer. I am therefore asking you this question because that means a reduction in their income for those concerned. Madam Secretary of State, are you aware of this particular problem? How do you explain this problem? Did it only have to do with a shortage of staff? What have you done or will you continue to do to help people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u4	I now give the floor to Mrs Gerkens for both her question and her interplay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u5	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, I am speaking both in the context of a question and an inquiry. My first element is the same as that of my colleagues. Despite the commitments made, namely, the completion or ongoing training of new staff and the reinforcement of human resources, the responses to telephone calls were very inadequate; many calls remained unanswered. There are still delays in case management. It is both parents of persons with disabilities and social services that attract our attention in this regard. It would appear that there may still be eight months of delay in updating an upward allowance, e.g. for a person whose status changes, beyond the disability rate. It's a matter of concern. This means that, apart from the lack of staff to which you responded, which was crucial, other issues are problematic. The change of software was also problematic, namely the transition from Tetra to Curam. So you intervened in a muscular and positive way to extend Tetra and evaluate the Curam software. To do this, it is split into several parts and tried to improve it in collaboration with the staff of DG People with Disabilities. According to the information I received in July, the decision was made to extend Tetra for three years. It even seems that Tetra could be extended beyond. Minister, could you tell me more about the evaluation, in a way, the audit of these software that was requested to examine what is working or not and why?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u6	I would like information from you on this. I am told that Capgemini would like to seek compensation for breach of contract if he were to terminate Curam, since this software had been selected last April. In my inquiry, I insist on the issue of this software. I have many questions about the state of the art and the direction taken with regard to these various tools. So, where are we in identifying the responsibilities for choosing the program? By whom were these choices made, and by what process? As I had already mentioned in a previous question, to which I had not had an answer, I am concerned that the company Cronos, which prepares the Curam contract for €1.2 million, is the main shareholder of Passwerk, the company chosen to be the ICT support for data encoding at the DG People with Disabilities. On Passwerk's advisory committee is Frank Robben – a resource person for computer science and software in our social security administrations. We know that he has also been involved in the modernisation of the IT system of DG People with Disabilities. I really wish there was an investigation. I would like an answer from you on how these choices have been made. Finally, I am also concerned about the situation of the staff of DG People with Disabilities. I think that's the explanation for the lack of good answers on the phone, despite the commitments made, and the delays in case management. This staff is totally stressed out. An audit was conducted on the quality of the work of these workers. According to my information, 46% of staff receive conflicting orders, 54% do not have the information necessary to process a file or make decisions, 50% are stressed, 50% suffer from insomnia and 63% report working under pressure. As has been the case in the past, we are facing a problem in terms of human resources management and work organisation. Here I can only relay the request which is made and which concerns the accountability of the DG People with Disabilities, but also of the SPF Social Security so that this service is reinvigorated and real work is done. Minister, could you give me any information on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we received various questions from the Social Affairs Committee about the functioning of DG Persons with disabilities and the return to the Tetra software. The implementation of the flawed software system Curam has caused several problems. When I was appointed Secretary of State at the end of February, I found very distressing situations. From January to March, hardly any phone records or files were handled. The staff in the administration could not answer phones in many circumstances because the information they needed was not visible on their computer screen. Several consultations were held between the then cabinet and the public authorities with a view to adjusting and correcting the situation. The poorly functioning software system ultimately put the good service of DG Persons with disabilities at risk. That's why I decided to return to the old Tetra software system permanently. In those three or four months Capgemini has never given me the assurance that the software would ever work. That's why I decided to return to the old system. Today, the situation has improved slightly, but we are not there yet. There are still too many problems, for example with the accessibility of DG Persons with disabilities and the time limit for handling the files. That is how I come to my answer to Mrs Gerkens' interplay. With regard to the situation of staff in DG People with Disabilities, I announced in April that additional resources would be released to enable 38 case managers to be hired. Since then, 23 of them have already taken office. The hiring procedures have not yet been completed. This fall, fifteen new case managers will join the team. More specifically, they are contracted under the terms and conditions of the Rosetta Plan. New case managers will be assigned to file processing (applications for allowances, obtaining parking cards for persons with disabilities, etc.) and also to the telephone service. In addition to these 38 staff members, 23 of whom have already started, two Level A staff members have also been hired under the Talent Exchange program: one Dutch-speaking, the other French-speaking. They will be separated from other federal jurisdictions and assigned to the role of coach, human resources manager. They will support old or new employees and motivate them during this period, during which they will have to make up for a significant backlog in case management. With regard to the figures for the closure of files, we note a positive trend. In March, only 3,460 cases were closed, compared to 8,150 in July, just before the holiday period. During the two summer months, the number of cases closed was 6,954 in July and about 6,000 in August. Please also take into account the holiday period. The average closing time for files increased from 4.3 months to 6.1 months between March and July. Subsequently, it appears to have stabilized at a lower level. However, it is still far from the usual average time frame, i.e. 4 to 4.5 months. But the average processing time is now below the 6-month mark. In short, a large proportion of the 38 staff for whom the budget has been made available have already been recruited. Of course it takes a while, usually such training takes two months, before they can participate fully. We are doing everything we can, including the staff in the administration. After all, they were having a hard time, it was really high on them. They will do everything in their power to make up for the delay caused by the old Curam system as soon as possible. The DG for Persons with Disabilities deals with three types of applications. Firstly, there are the completely new applications. These of course last the longest, because in this case a new file has to be created for the person. Secondly, there are the revisions. This is a second type of application that comes to DG Persons with Disabilities. Those are adjustments at the request of the person himself. These are usually people who report that their income has fallen or that their medical condition has worsened. Thirdly, there are the own-initiative reviews. These are adjustments on the initiative of DG Persons with Disabilities themselves. These include revisions due to the automatic data flow via the social security crossroads bank, for example on the change in the family situation. Revisions and, above all, automatic revisions take much less time than the new files. I told you, if there are new applications, it's a whole process, which takes the longest. A new dossier should be drawn up for these new applications. This is also the subject of a medical check-up. Due to the problems with the software program Curam at the time, the new applications did not reach the file processors for a long time. So the officials did not get the new application files up to them. So they couldn't treat them either. The new applications submitted in spring still need to be encoded by all of them in the old Tetra software system, because they were not able to operate them at that time. As a result, in the months of March and April the file-handlers concentrated mainly on the automatic revisions, which take much less time. Consequently, the lead time in those months was shorter and we notice a longer lead time in the later period. After all, many files for new applications need to be made up and the newly recruited staff are not yet fully operational. In the autumn, if this delay is eliminated, a further decrease in average lead times can be expected. I note that the newly recruited staff must go through a training and recruitment period of about two months. I met the young people recruited myself. I must say that it is one for a very committed young person who joins this service. They will, of course, work there, but they will also do so on the basis of a social commitment to do everything in their power to implement and advance those new applications that were not dealt with at the time. They can already be used during this period but their functioning is not yet optimal. I understand that, too. They need to be worked in. In addition, they should be trained by file managers who have been working with DG Persons with Disabilities for a long time, but who in turn will be able to spend less time on their regular tasks, handling the files and answering the phones. In addition to the figures of the number of files dealt with, where we still have a way to go, this also reflects in the number of phones answered. Nevertheless, we have come a long way. In February, only French-language calls were answered. Since March, the percentage of calls received by DG Persons with Disabilities has increased. There is therefore a modest improvement. Note that we are talking here about calls that are answered by employees of the DG Persons with Disabilities. Some of the persons also receive an automatic response without speaking to a member of the DG Persons with Disabilities. It's not because they don't talk to anyone on the phone that they don't get any service. Sometimes they just get everything sent by e-mail or digitally. In his question, Mr Raskin rightly addressed the greater problem of the accessibility of DG Persons with Disabilities in Flanders. The main reason for this is the transfer of the allowance for assistance to the elderly to Flanders. As a result of this transfer, a large part of the Flemish staff of DG Persons with disabilities has been transferred to the Flemish level, mainly to the care greenhouses that the THAB now assigns. As a result, the number of Dutch-speaking file managers within the DG Persons with Disabilities is currently much lower than the number of French-speaking file managers. That also explains why, especially in the beginning, the phone calls were barely answered on the Flemish side, while the telephone was recorded on the French-speaking side. There were few Flemish employees working in that administration as a result of the transfer. We have recruited 38 young people new; they are also Dutch speaking. The necessary period of training and implementation of the 13 people who first joined the service, namely on 1 July, has almost been completed. For the first recruitments, the training is virtually over. Those persons, as reinforcements, are now operational. A significant improvement in the telephone accessibility of the administration and the lead time of the files can therefore be expected in the coming months. I follow that up at least month by month, and I hope that by the end of this year we will see the effect of these recruitments of new staff. Now I come to Mrs Van Hoof's questions. I am aware that there is a delay in the processing of the application for the addition to the integration meeting for days outside the institution in 2016. This delay was caused by problems with the entry into service of Curam, the new programme for the management of files of people with disabilities, because that programme did not work at all at first. As mentioned earlier, because of this problem, the old Tetra programme is now in use again. The service will do everything in its power to eliminate the delay in handling the files. The decisions for the 2017 applications will in principle be made in the first trimester of 2018. The 2016 applications are still being updated. As far as the contracts for the administration's computer system are concerned, in June the Council of Ministers approved expenditure relating to the extension of the use of the Tetra system for a period of four years. Instead of just opting for an extension until 2019, which could put my successor in trouble, I thought it was important that this was approved suddenly for four years. This is important for the continuity of the processing of the files and for guaranteeing payments to the entitled parties. I also knew I needed some room to clear things up with Capgemini. As you know, the contract with Capgemini has been suspended since July. In July, I saw it wasn't gonna work out. That is why I decided to suspend the contract and immediately go to the Council of Ministers to request an extension of Tetra's contract for four years. The most important thing, in addition to the recruitment of 38 staff, is to ensure the provision of services. An independent and contradictory audit on the management of the project and the responsibilities of the parties is currently carried out by independent IT experts. Enigma Partners was awarded an audit, following a reasoned award decision, taken on 5 September 2017. With this independent audit, I want to find out in detail how this has come about. It's good to have this information before going to court. The audit is ongoing. It will be examined whether one of the parties made mistakes or did not act in accordance with the rules of the art or the agreement concerning, first, the pre-contractual phase; second, the implementation of the contract; third, the components functionality, screen, output etc. of the software that does not work or contains shortcomings; fourth, the timely execution of the contract and the respect of timing; and fifth, the budget overrun. It was decided that the parties concerned would wait until the audit was completed to take legal action. I've formally failed Capgemini. I am now waiting for the results of the audit. It is expected by the end of December 2017. Then I'll take further steps on Capgemini. As regards the assumption of a conflict of interest, as suggested by Mrs Gerkens, the award of the contract to Capgemini took place during the previous legislature. The contract was published in the Bulletin of Procurement on 29 April 2013. Capgemini submitted a tender on 16 September 2013 and a best and final offer on 25 November 2013. On 7 February 2014, the Council of Ministers of the Di Rupo Government confirmed the decision of the Minister of Social Affairs, Laurette Onkelinx, and of the State Secretary in charge of DG Persons with Disabilities, regarding the award to Capgemini. I have tried to give a detailed answer and to answer as many questions as possible. It is not yet optimal on the service as should be, but everyone is doing their best. It is a good thing that in July we decided to stop Capgemini and return to Tetra, which was asked by several care greenhouses and from civil society, almost by everyone who worked with that system. The same applies to the officials of DG Persons with disabilities. We did that in July and see that there is a slight increase in files to be dealt with. I hope this gets to speed now, after the holidays. A large proportion of the 38 employees are already employed and 13 of them have already completed full training and will be able to participate fully. I'm following from month to month whether we're making progress or not, and what else we can do. I have done everything you asked me to do in committee or in the administration. Now it's time to wait and see what the audit results in. I will follow this up, because this has cost us a lot of money, as I said in committee, and I want to know what we can recover from it. I also hope that we will reach cruising speed and that we will be able to finish the delay in the dossiers at some point. It's not easy, but I'm doing what I can.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your very detailed and detailed reply. We all share the concern for a good service provided by DG Persons with Disabilities. When you took office, the situation was particularly serious, with the new computer system and its practical implementation, which meant that staff had to give priority to certain priorities and other issues remained. You have shown once again today that you have made very concrete efforts to change the situation in a good way. Additional resources have been allocated to new staff and the number of files handled is increasing. The average trading period is falling. I am also very pleased to hear from you that services in Flanders will improve. The signals we received about this imbalance and that feeling were obviously correct. These new people will strengthen the team of Dutch file managers. That's where you restore balance. You are also quite right to say that we have not yet arrived. We must be alert and ensure that the positive trend is maintained. With your detailed and detailed explanation, we can only see that we are on the right track. Let us hope that if everyone is recruited and trained in full force, we can finally eliminate the backlog.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, thank you very much for your very comprehensive reply. It is quite clear that you are making every effort to prevent this serious problem in the future and to regularise the files of the past as quickly as possible. You failed the system and went back to work with the old system. You have made every effort to recruit sufficient staff and to provide training. It is now important to use all this as efficiently as possible today, because there is discontent among the people today, and this is causing acidification. It is already not clear to live with a disability or with children with disabilities. It costs a lot of money to provide care. I therefore believe that it is very important, even if you do not get the files resolved immediately and you need to regularize them, that the communication about when it will be resolved will be made available to the people. It will probably take longer to deal with a dossier and check whether that review is in order or not, but communication on the time limit for dealing with a dossier should be possible very quickly. The frustration this spring was that they did not receive an answer. That is very bad, so I think that communication about when one will get an answer and recognising a delay will eliminate a great deal of the acidification and discontent that exists today in those who have to deal with these dossiers. Communication is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for your different answers. You confirm the status of staff engagement and training. It is therefore to be hoped that by the end of the year the total number announced will be reached. You are announcing the commitment of two coaches responsible for human resources management from other federal jurisdictions and, in doing so, you are confirming my analysis and concerns about the very poor management of the organization of the Disability DG. In addition to your action, I will table a motion calling on you, in particular, to make these directorates responsible, both for the disabled and for the Social Security FPS, for this obligation to manage their staff properly and to organise the work properly on the basis of the results of the audit. Your answer is to supplement the management of these administrations with external coaches, but we will have to consider how current managers work. About Capgemini and Tetra software, the four-year extension has been activated, which means that this extension is not definitive. We may change it, but it's never gonna be Curam again. Are there still opportunities to use both? Your answer reveals elements that are not always the same. I would therefore like a confirmation from you. I support you in the initiative of this audit to find responsibilities throughout the process that has resulted in a dysfunctional system. In my second request, to complete and support the work that you are doing, I make the recommendation to investigate the potential conflicts of interest – possibly dating back to 2013 or 2014 – that would have intervened in the procedures for the award of this public contract and resulted in Curam's choice. It seems to me that this is an element to be highlighted in order not to repeat the same mistakes. The world of software is relatively small and requires increased vigilance. So I'll come back to interview you regularly, but you took the case in hand and you didn't claim that everything was working well. You have confirmed that there is still a lot of work to be done and I fully agree with you. I'll be by your side to get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u11	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the reply of the Secretary of State for the Fight against Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, in charge of the Big Cities, Deputy to the Minister of Security and Home Affairs, asks the government - to empower the Directorates of the DGPH and the SPF Social Security in view of their poor management of the human resources of the DGPH, the deplorable state of the psychological state of the staff and the climate of pathological stress of the service; - to investigate the potential conflicts of interest between the Directorates of Social Security and Persons with Disabilities at the time of the public procurement procedures relating to the software of the DGPH which led to the choice of Curam." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the reply of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities, and Science Policy, responsible for Large Cities, added to the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, calls on the Government - to make the Directorates of DG Persons with Disabilities (DG HAN) and the Social Security Office responsive in the light of poor human resources management at DG HAN, the appalling psychological state of the staff and the climate of sickening stress in the service; - to investigate possible conflicts of interest between the management of the FPS Social Security Office and DG HAN in the framework of the software procurement procedures for DG HAN, ultimately choosing Curam." A simple motion was tabled by Ms Els Van Hoof and Messrs. Wouter Raskin and Stefaan Vercamer. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Wouter Raskin and Mr Stefaan Vercamer. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u12	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in April we had a debate in committee on your guidance note. You've been in place for a few weeks. On 28 August, you announced in the press your willingness to tighten the conditions for recognition of a disability that would qualify for an income replacement and integration allowance. According to your statements, in the future the applicant will have to have lived in Belgium for at least ten years, including five years continuously. I must say that four months after our debate on the guidance note, this announcement surprised me and a little shocked. We had talked a lot about the 1987 law and its necessary reform. Finally, the only measure announced is a negative measure for people, not a reform measure. In the article I read, you say you want to protect our social security by this so-called hardening measure. First of all, I would like to say that you are not going to protect anything about social security at all with this scheme. Allowances for persons with disabilities do not fall within the scope of social security in the proper sense. These are social assistance allowances. Our society, since the 1987 Act, and already in the 1960s, considers that persons with disabilities are not responsible for their situation. Like others, they do not have access to the labour market. They have mobility or other difficulties. The so-called income replacement allowance compensates for less easy access to the labour market. The integration allowance compensates for disability-related costs. These allowances are at the same level as the leefloor, the social integration income. They allow us to live – we can discuss this. But finally, the only measure announced so far, faced with the challenge of a fundamental reform of the 1987 Act, is a toughening measure, the aim of which is certainly to fill a budget gap in your government. Madam Secretary of State, since you have studied the matter, what would be the annual budgetary impact of such a measure? Then you say that cases of fraud have been found. Could you provide me with the percentage of frauds and errors, as compared to the number of recipients of Income Replacement Allowances (ARR) and Integration Allowances (AI)? We would, I think, arrive at an absolutely small percentage compared to the hundreds of thousands of beneficiaries of allowances. However, the current legislation provides for controls, revisions and devices, precisely to counter fraud, if any, and to avoid errors. Developments make the legislation so complex that, for us, the first challenge would be to simplify it. Today, electronic exchanges can take place, in terms of income. This has been established over time. It is certainly possible to better control the situation of beneficiaries or applicants. The issue of control has nothing to do with hardening; it is another measure, a new device that you want to introduce, and that is regrettable. I asked the question of the budgetary impact, so this is my second question. How many people do you think will be affected by this measure in the future? Do you have any estimates to provide? If you make a provision, I imagine you have an idea of the number of people involved. Do you confirm that the measure you are considering will concern both persons who have acquired Belgian nationality and foreign persons? Under this new provision, persons who do not have access to the income replacement allowance will turn to the CPAS. This is again a transfer of charge to the local authorities. One cannot imagine that people who find themselves without income, being no longer under the conditions of income replacement allowance, do not turn to social integration income or leefloor, and thus to the CPAS. Finally, since your announcement in the press on August 28, has your bill evolved? What stage are you at today? Is the said bill ready? What parliamentary timetable do you envisage for this arrangement? Have you ever sought the advice of the National High Council of Persons with Disabilities. If not, do you intend to do it? If so, what is his opinion on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, a remarkable passage from the Summer Agreement deals with your plans to strengthen the residence condition for granting the income replacement allowance. The aim is to combat welfare tourism and benefit fraud. However, the Summer Agreement contains another underexposed measure aimed at the detection of social fraud by foreign benefit recipients. Together with your colleague, Theo Francken, you want to work on a data exchange between DG Persons with Disabilities and the Foreign Affairs Office. I have the following questions. What exactly does this exchange of information mean? What is the status of the initiative? Is it in line with European regulations? Does a Member State have the right to exclude EU citizens from social assistance under certain conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u14	Mr President, I will try to answer the questions in detail. Various questions have been asked about the commitments we made in the summer agreement with regard to the tightening of residency conditions for the RRA and the AI. With your permission, I would like to provide a detailed answer to these questions. In the summer agreement, agreement in principle was reached on the tightening of the residence requirement for the income replacement allowance for disabled persons, provided that this condition is not in contradiction with European legislation. All government partners agreed on this principle. Our proposal for residency conditions is divided into two parts. First of all, we propose, like the approach taken for the guarantee of income for the elderly, to introduce, for the RRA, a residence condition according to which persons must be able to prove that they have already resided in Belgium for at least ten years, including at least five uninterrupted years. Please note in this regard that there is also a ten-year residence requirement for Flemish allowances for disabled persons. In Flanders, therefore, this already exists. We will not introduce such a residence requirement for the CEW. This is also not feasible under European law. We also propose that the regulations clearly specify the need, not only for an effective residence, but also for a legal residence in our country in order to qualify for an RRA. The absence of an explicit mention of this need in the regulations gives rise to abuses today. Thus, a case has recently been brought before the Labour Court. Within this framework, a person residing illegally in our country claims an RRA based on the fact that he or she still resided in our country on an ongoing basis. In his judgement, the judge gave reason to this illegal resident. In order to prevent such cases from occurring in the future, the legislation must specifically state that we must also legally reside in our country in order to benefit from an RRA. I will not dwell on the second proposal because the questions addressed to me relate to the first proposal on the introduction of the ten-year residence requirement. With this measure, I intend to fight social tourism. We want to prevent people from settling in Belgium with the sole aim of benefiting from our social benefits. Therefore, this measure must be part of a broader set of social measures relating to disability contained in the summer agreement. In the Summer Agreement, we adopted a number of measures and principles that should make the IVT fairer. We will release additional resources to further increase the IVT towards the poverty threshold. For example, in 2018 and 2019, EUR 100 million will be made available each time to further increase the IVT, the IGA and the living wage, as well as the maximum amount eligible for the federal tax reduction Child care for single taxpayers with limited professional income and dependent children. The way in which we will distribute that envelope must be further clarified. We are also looking at new measures to make it easier to make a living on top of the IVT through work. If we make the IVT fairer, we must at the same time take measures to prevent people from abroad from coming here just to make use of the benefit. The effective fight against proven abuses, however, is not the only reason to justify the interest in introducing a stricter residence requirement, nor is it the major reason. Currently, the ARR is granted to some 108 000 people, representing about 1% of the population. The vast majority of them, about 92 percent, consist of people of Belgian nationality, including, of course, people of ethnic origin with Belgian nationality. In absolute terms, therefore, the measure is not aimed at a large group, which does not mean that it is extremely important to preserve the legitimacy and support of our social protection. If the government doesn't take action against welfare tourism and abuses, however minimal they may be, then... In recent years there has been an increase, especially in Bulgarians and Romanians. [[One has no choice but to rule out these abuses in advance.]] The legitimacy of our welfare state is based on reciprocity. You know that, Mr Delizée. Our solidarity is limited to those who also want to show solidarity with us. Giving benefits to people who come to this country because our social protection is the most advantageous, but who themselves do not contribute, goes against the principle of reciprocity on which fair social protection is based. We must concentrate our limited budgetary resources on those who have already given much to our society by working in this country and paying taxes and those who really need it very much. It is difficult to tell how many immigrants come to our country specifically to make use of the allowance for people with disabilities. It is therefore impossible to know the intentions of migrants, which does not mean that we do have indications that there seems to be a form of welfare tourism among certain groups of the population. On 1 January 2008, four Bulgarians and four Romanians received an IVT or an IT. On 1 January 2017, 312 and 321 persons were respectively. While the number of Romanians and Bulgarians among the general population increased by a small 5% during that period, the proportion of holders of the IVT or IT increased by almost 80%. So, Mr Delizée, there may be a ringing bell. Since 2016, both Romanians and Bulgarians have been among the top 10 most common nationalities among the recipients of the IVT or IT. They are clearly among the strongest climbers. It is certainly not my intention to target certain groups of the population, but if such figures are to be established, they must also be dared to be named. You were also Secretary of State. I don't know how you did it, but I'm going through monthly statistics on who's entitled to an IVT and who's not. That increase in the population due to chance would be very naive. We cannot rule out the possibility of networks of persons of the same nationality coming from countries where social protection is less advantageous and informing each other about the benefits of the Belgian allowances on the basis of these figures. The DG Persons with Disabilities is also informed by doctors that the sudden increases in applications are highly localised in certain municipalities, such as Ghent and Anderlecht. This suggests that these are people who are embedded in a network of people who know each other. Mrs Jiroflée had a number of questions about the scope of the measure, but I can skip that because she is not there. Perhaps it is important for Mr Delizée and Mr Raskin because she asked what would happen to a construction worker coming to work in Belgium and having an accident after about two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u15	Mrs Jiroflée's question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u16	Okay, I'll skip that part. At least we're not just doing this. We have also looked at the Flemish level. This has been the case for people with disabilities in different systems for ten years, of which five years are continuous in Belgium. We have done the same for the IGO, but that does not mean that we leave people in the cold. If a foreigner comes to work in our country and has an accident here, then basically there is still occupational accident insurance. One can also be covered by the RIZIV. Mr Raskin, you refer to the measures I am planning on the active detection of fraud in the IVT or IT application by foreigners. That proposal is also included in the Summer Agreement and is independent of our initiative on the residence condition. The proposal is to establish a systematic exchange of information between DG Persons with Disabilities and the Foreign Affairs Office in the context of the detection of fraud in the application of an IVT or IT by EU citizens. As I mentioned earlier, we have indications that certain groups of immigrants only come to our country to make use of social assistance. These are then EU nationals who rely on a right of residence as an EU employee to apply immediately for an IVT, an IT or any other assistance allowance. Under the Dano judgment of 11 November 2014, an economically inactive EU citizen who does not fulfil the conditions of the right to free movement by the host Member State may be excluded from social assistance. The Foreign Affairs Office may therefore terminate the residence of economically inactive EU citizens who do not fulfil the conditions of a right of residence. One of these conditions is that they have their own means of subsistence. In this sense, the enjoyment of an IVT constitutes a possible reason for rejecting a right of residence. We therefore propose to develop an automatic data exchange between DG Persons with Disabilities and the Foreign Affairs Office. For this purpose, DG Persons with Disabilities will systematically report to the Foreign Affairs Office when an EU citizen has applied for an IVT. We will try to automatically forward that to the Foreign Affairs Office, which will then inform about the personal circumstances of the EU citizen and his family. The Foreign Affairs Office also has data on the immigrant's professional activity. If, after this investigation, the Foreign Affairs Office finds that the right of residence for EU citizens is lost by the use of assistance, it will also lose its right to compensation in accordance with the legislation. This proposal was agreed with my colleague, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. The DG Persons with Disabilities and the Department of Foreign Affairs will work out these data exchanges by the beginning of October and prepare a dossier that can be submitted to the privacy committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u17	Mr President, first of all, I confirm that there is no link between the question of possible fraud which is very limited in percentages and a new provision which is here in the budget and which is going to exclude, in the future, new beneficiaries of the ARR. I'm going to ask for a copy of the answer because a lot of numbers were cited very quickly. I wish I could read them again at my ease. This shows that the percentage of people concerned is very low and that it is ultimately more than a principle and an ideological and symbolic measure with no major budgetary implications. There are three questions left, Madam Secretary of State, to which you have not answered. First, will your future arrangement concern persons of Belgian nationality? Will people who have become Belgians be affected by this measure? I do not know if you can complete your answer on this. Secondly, will this system be applied as soon as the return to school is complete? Third, has the National High Council of Persons with Disabilities issued an opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u18	It goes without saying that this also applies to Belgians, otherwise there would be discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u19	That's what I thought. However, I absolutely do not share your view of solidarity, which discriminates against those to whom it should apply. It is a pity that you are inaugurating the management of your department by such a negative measure. Indeed, it will simply close the doors to people who, in any case, will seek social assistance elsewhere. In my view, any person with a disability should be entitled to such benefits. The most important – and this will be my next question, Mr.President – will be to reform this law, which is far too complex. This would certainly make it possible to address this topic more simply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, I see that slightly differently. That won't be a surprise. I would like to come back briefly to two points. Firstly, the measure taken and contained in the Summer Agreement is not contrary to European rules. That's important. This is also part of a wider package. I will not repeat what is in there. The aim is to strengthen the legitimacy of the system. The principle you apply is good, despite the fact that in absolute figures it may not be about so many people. I believe, however, that it is an important principle. Secondly, with regard to the data matching between DG Persons with Disabilities and the DVZ, I believe that these data should be effectively cross-referenced in 2017. We are already doing this in other areas in the context of the fight against social exclusion. Here, too, it seems to me to be absolutely sensible. We understand that it is your ambition to allow the limited resources to reach the right people. This is absolutely necessary if the legitimacy of the system, based on the principle of reciprocity, is to be maintained effectively. I believe that this is absolutely the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u21	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, this question is more general and related to the previous one. We talked about it in the debate on your guidance note. At the end of this debate, you promised to study the advisability of reforming the 1987 law. This law is no longer adapted to the situation of persons with disabilities and does not reflect the new paradigm introduced by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by Belgium in 2009. The law should therefore be reformed with emphasis on simplification, which could be facilitated by the development of electronic means of data exchange. What is the status of your thinking in favour of a more comprehensive reform of this law? Will you take into account the demands of the sector and those of the disabled themselves? A consultation highlighted five main directions. The first concerns the strengthening of support for integration through an integration allowance for all, even if it can be weighted according to income. Today, the amount of the allowance does not compensate for the real cost of the specific problems encountered by the various disability situations. The second direction is outside the law but deals with the issue of medical assessment. The following guidelines addressed issues of poverty reduction, employment traps, labour costs and administrative simplification of existing procedures. Are you determined to carry out a reform worthy of that name? What would be the timetable for achieving it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u22	Mr Delizée, in my policy statement of April, I have already had the opportunity to inform you about the thrust of the reforms planned for the system of allowances for persons with disabilities. Indeed, in this summer's agreement, we have taken several decisions that have an impact on the 1987 Act. First of all, I want to improve the income security of those entitled to an income replacement allowance (ARR) by removing some barriers to their participation in the labour market. I recognize that the ARR target group is not always able to be redirected to the labour market; but in many cases, going to work is not really remunerative, which is why I intend to put in place a system that will make work more attractive. In this summer's agreement, we reached agreement in principle on improving the ARR-work mix. Today, the beneficiary of an ARR already loses part of his intervention from the first euro earned while working. That is why we are considering no longer accounting for a certain part of the income from work in the condition of resources. We still need to determine precisely how we will proceed. We can, for example, base ourselves on the amount earned in labour income, but also on the number of days worked per year. Therefore, we will examine the fiscal impact and the impact on the risks of poverty of the various avenues. Furthermore, I would like to draw up clear criteria on the basis of which doctors from DG People with Disabilities can grant an RRA. The rule is that an RRA can be granted to someone whose earning abilities are proven to be limited to one third of those of a valid person. In practice, there is no clear directive for the various handicaps and permanent pathologies defining when the limit of one third of a normal earning capacity is exceeded. In addition, the doctors of the DG People with Disabilities would not all assess the individual situation in the same way. Together with the Minister of Social Affairs, we examine whether the National College of Social Insurance Medicine in the field of incapacity for work can draw up, where appropriate and in consultation with the INAMI and the ONEM, clear criteria for the granting of an income replacement allowance (ARR). In concrete terms, we intend to identify clearer criteria for determining the capacity of earnings and where one third of it is located and for granting an RSA. In the medical centre, internal controls will also have to be carried out in order to ensure that evaluations are consistent with the guidelines adopted. It should be noted that the vast majority of doctors in charge of the assessments are paid by consultation, which may lead them to concentrate on the quantity, possibly to the disadvantage of correcting their judgment. This system also encourages positive decisions. In the current situation, the control of medical decisions is limited to the re-reading of records by the head of the centre, however, without centralized management and without a systematic approach. There is also a lack of guidelines and procedures. However, they are essential for establishing an evaluation framework. On the other hand, the principles of risk assessment are not applied or are applied too little. Together with the DG People with Disabilities, we are currently developing a proposal for the creation of a quality unit within the DG, which will monitor these doctors with regard to the application of current and future directives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I must admit that the guidance note seemed to me to be quite inadequate with regard to the reform of the 1987 Act. The debate that followed him seemed likely to go further. But we are still in a state of blur. I hear your comments on the need to make work more attractive, particularly in terms of wages. This is one aspect of the reform, but you are focusing almost exclusively on this aspect. I'll come back later on the medical assessment. However, your response does not address consultation, the sector's request and compliance with the UN Convention. We will have an opportunity to discuss this during the presentation of your policy note. Perhaps you will then be more precise in this matter. Then you mentioned the budgetary impact of the RRA. I understand that very well, since I have exercised this responsibility. That is why I indicated in the bill that we tabled that a phase of different measures could be envisaged. We can certainly discuss it. Having said that, I think it is crucial for the sector to set targets and define a new horizon. This is not done here. A long part of your answer is about medical assessment, which is an issue in itself. The 1987 Act provides for the implementation of the medical examination, the examination of files, revisions, etc. I noted what you said about that. INAMI and ONEM fulfil a mission other than the definition of a disability. Of course, consultations and exchanges can take place. However, it is a very special task to define a disability, to issue a certificate of disability and to grant allowances according to certain criteria. You also announced that a medical assessment study would be ready by the end of the year. I understand that you were waiting for the conclusions before proceeding further in this area. Medical assessment is indeed an issue, but it is not the subject of my question, which concerns the reform of the 1987 Act. I want to say that your answer is as inadequate, from this point of view, as the guidance note.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u24	Then we come to Mr Raskin's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u25	Mr President, I would like to ask my questions. 20680, 20681 and 20682.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic730x.u26	Thank you.
