ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u1	Minister, at the beginning of March, the written press echoed the analyses carried out by a kitchen manufacturer who used mainly synthetic quartz in the manufacturing process. This research would have demonstrated the toxicity of synthetic quartz by the presence of heavy metals during daily use of the work plan and the risk of contamination of food in contact. So I'd like to know if your department was able to analyze the arguments put forward by this gentleman. If so, are you considering taking action?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u2	Ms Jadin, in the normal use of products, kitchen work plans can come into contact with food and are then considered to be contact materials within the meaning of the law. Synthetic quartz, also known as reconstituted quartz, consists of crystalline silica - 70-90% as appropriate - polymer resin and dyes. It should be noted that a material does not necessarily lead to release of these components into the food it contains or into the food with which it is in contact. What should therefore be checked is this possible release of substances to food. Materials that come into contact with food must comply with European Regulation 1935/2004 on materials and articles intended to come into contact with food. We are interested in Article 3 of this regulation, since it expressly states that no constituent may migrate to foodstuffs in quantities likely to pose a danger to the health of the consumer. In order to verify whether these materials do not lead to an unacceptable danger to the health of the consumer, it will therefore be necessary to demonstrate that the substances liable to migrate from the work plan in question to possible foodstuffs are, even in the worst case scenario, under control. If they are not, taking into account the composition of synthetic quartz, it is appropriate for that manufacturer to take into account Regulation 10/2011 on plastic materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs, with a migration limit for a number of products: phthalates, certain heavy metals, etc. Should an additional coating be applied to this work plan, it should also comply with a Royal Decree of September 2016 concerning varnishes and coatings intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. The migration tests referred to in the Regulation and the Royal Decree referred to above must be carried out by the manufacturer so that he can demonstrate that his product is in conformity with the legislation in force, namely that none of the substances making up it may migrate to foodstuffs in quantities likely to pose a danger to human health, and in particular the heavy metals and phthalates forming part of them. In Belgium, all materials intended for food contact must be at the top of the chain, accompanied by a declaration of conformity, which can be requested. A Royal Decree of May 1992 concerning materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs regulates these provisions, in which manufacturers, importers and sellers must declare that their product is in conformity with the legislation. If there is a suspicion of a problem, our services are available to conduct any further analysis of these compliances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u3	Thank you, Minister. I see that your department took this fact very seriously, that the precautions have been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u4	Madam President, Minister, antibiotics in animal feed are a major problem. In the Netherlands there have been a number of recent inspections which have revealed a number of problems, such as dragged form: animal feed contaminated with medicated feed previously produced. I'd never heard of that before. You have already been active in measures to limit the use of antibiotics in livestock farming. You have drawn up a royal decision and a covenant with the sector, and you also took the right initiative to set up a data collection system. As far as medicated premixtures are concerned, additional efforts are obviously needed. The AMCRA had the very clear objective of reducing the foremen by 50% between 2011 and 2017. However, at present, according to the figures of 30 June 2016, there is only a decrease of 14,7%. I have the following questions for you. We are now 2017, where are we with the target on antibiotics in medicated premixtures? Are you getting any better? Shall we get that 50 percent? I don't think that's possible, but I'm asking you. If we achieve that, has your objective been achieved or are you setting the bar even higher for the future? If not, for which I fear, what measures do you intend to take to speed up the achievement of the objectives? Secondly, are inspections carried out in Belgium of animal feed establishments similar to those carried out in the Netherlands? If so, at what frequency? How many producers have already been inspected? What carry-over rates have you encountered? If not, would you consider introducing such inspections? With what frequency and timing? Thirdly, have you planned measures to restrict the use of medicines other than antibiotics in animal feed, such as deworming agents or painkillers? If so, what and with what timing? If no, why not? Fourthly, on 2 May we had an exchange of views with Mr Andriukaitis, European Commissioner for Public Health. This resulted in two recommendations for the transposition of European directives into a Belgian legislative framework before this summer. Where do you stand with that? It's already very good weather, so we're already in the summer. When will you submit the drafts for this legislative framework to the Chamber of Representatives? What is your position as Minister on a general ban on antibiotics in animal feed? Finally, what studies are still under way on the link between medicinal feedingstuffs and the dangers to public health?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u5	Mrs Dedry, the fight against antimicrobial resistance is an important public health challenge. An ambitious reduction strategy of 50% on the use of antibiotics for 2020 was established in the framework of the AMCRA, the knowledge centre on antibiotic use and resistance in animals. One of the elements used to achieve this objective is effectively a 50% reduction in medicated feed containing antibiotics by the end of 2017 compared to 2011. The trade association of compound feed manufacturers committed at the end of 2016 a reduction of 36%. The target of a reduction of 50% before the end of 2017 seems thus already achieved. Secondly, in Belgium, manufacturers of medicated feeds are controlled by the BFSA. In 2016, 34 manufacturers of medicated feeds were inspected regarding their cross contamination and one non-conformity was found. This question concerning the management of cross-contamination is considered to be a major non-conformity and always brings with it at least a warning and can lead to a CV. In all cases, a revisit is programmed to verify the solution of the problem. Furthermore, the BFSA carries out the cross contamination checks by targeted sampling of conventional feeds. In 2016, 339 samples were taken to check the absence of unacceptable traces of coccidiostats and antibiotics with a compliance rate of 99,7%. In Belgium, in addition to antibiotics, some deworming agents are authorised as medicated premixtures for feed. These deworming agents do not represent the same public health challenge as antibiotics, which can lead to the development of antibiotic resistance. However, their level of risk shall be assessed when they are admitted to the market. Fourthly, as a reminder, the federal authorities and all sectoral actors involved in reducing the use of antibiotics in the animal sector concluded a convention in July 2016 laying down a number of concrete measures to reduce the use of antibiotics. The legislation setting out the conditions for the use of medicines by veterinarians and animal controllers has been thoroughly revised in 2016. The new Royal Decree lays down strict conditions for the use of critical antibiotics in feed producers and imposes an obligation to register certain antibiotic treatments in utility animals with a view to assessing certain trends and establishing use profiles of holders and veterinarians. These measures also apply to medicated feeds. However, the use of antimicrobials in veterinary medicine is crucial to safeguard animal health and ensure the safety of the food chain. The challenge is therefore to achieve a responsible and minimal use of these therapeutic agents. As guardian minister for animal health, I have assumed my responsibility in this regard. From now on, the use of antibiotics in veterinary medicine will be highly framed, even very limited to critically important antibiotics, and their use will be accurately measured. As far as the studies are concerned, a large number of research projects aimed at improving animal disease treatment and combating antibiotic resistance are funded at federal level. I would like to mention the Crosscontam and Group mediocrity projects. These two projects are subsidised up to EUR 450 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. Perhaps I missed it, but as far as the question of a new legislative initiative is concerned, you are ready? It's there? You have spoken of a new, much stricter KB. That's what's going on? You're done with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u7	Yeah, if you need to. We'll wait for the results. If necessary, I'll be done with other measures and a new KB. If it's necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u8	Madam President, Minister, on 27 April you announced in plenary that you are planning a ban on the sale of herbicides intended for private use, so that this is, of course, a subject of concern here, and with the exception of biopesticides. You also expressed your desire to reduce the use of pesticides, encourage the use of alternatives and apply the precautionary principle. That was a very encouraging step in the right direction, which I was very pleased with, but some questions remain unanswered. In the meantime, can you give us some more clarity as to what is going to happen in the near future? More specifically, from what date will products like Roundup disappear from the store shelves? Another unanswered question concerns agriculture. You responded rather surprisedly to my urge to go to a ban for professional users as well. It is, of course, a little absurd that nothing should be done in agriculture too, or that there should even be a ban. While private individuals use 41 tonnes of the substance every year, our Belgian farmers spray around 150 tonnes each year. In addition to the risk to the health of the farmer himself, there is, of course, also a risk to the public through agriculture. When a farmer irrigates his crops with turnips, the chemicals enter the soil, they end up in the water and remain residues on the crop. That explains the findings of the presence of satsumas in our food and in our body. The precautionary principle must therefore also be applied here. We do not believe that this is being done sufficiently through the measures you announced under the National Action Plan on Pesticide Reduction, in particular through new protection measures in respect of homes, reinforced precautions and risk assessment. The fact that we can no longer rely on the studies that Monsanto has submitted should now be made clear, even though yesterday the European Commissioner in the European Parliament claimed the opposite. Until it has been proven that it is not harmful, we must therefore ban large-scale use. In the same European Parliament, N-VA and CD&V even argued for this yesterday. In our view, multinational companies should not determine our policy; scientific facts should do so. There are alternatives. There are several mechanical alternatives on the market to destroy grass sods in spring. Depending on the farmer's specific situation, it can be chosen to attach certain elements such as scroll knives, discs or rotor harrows to the machine. Although such machines cost more in purchase, the policy could, for example, encourage employees to purchase such machines, so that not every farmer has to make that investment separately. So there are alternatives to making our agriculture less dependent on chemicals. The public authorities must either provide adequate support to farmers. For example, an advisor can give the farmer ideas for alternatives, as is already happening in the Netherlands under the Schoon Water programme. The consultant can also check with the farmer whether or not he chooses catch crops that freeze broken in winter. In spring, unlike the grassy green mosquitoes, they require more work, they can be reduced mechanically to a workable seedbed. In addition, we believe that more research should be carried out into agricultural practices that make chemical and synthetic pesticides, such as fertilizers, unnecessary. Research must anticipate the agricultural system we want to go to in the future. That must be a system which, on the one hand, looks at society as little externalities as possible and, on the other hand, is financially viable for the farmer. On the basis of the precautionary principle, do you also intend to impose a ban on professionals? Is this being discussed with the agricultural sector? Will you be more committed to research and guidance on alternatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u9	Mr Minister, at the end of April, the debate on those products containing arthropods came to the surface again. This was done, among other things, by the possible adaptation of a European study on the adverse effects of the product producer. The authorisation of the products concerned shall be regulated at three levels. At Flemish level, your colleague responsible for the Environment announced that she wanted to introduce at least a temporary ban on house and garden use. At European level, an 18-month extension of the licence was approved last year. The European Commissioner said at the beginning of May that there is no European ban on those products containing arthropods. The procedure was launched by the European Commission in mid-May with a view to a further authorisation for the next 10 years. For these reasons, I have wanted to ask you and your fellow Members, the Ministers for Health and the Environment, a number of questions over the last few months. Have you received any further studies on the effects of those products? If so, what were the conclusions? What is the position of our federal government? Are you in consultation with your fellow ministers at the various levels? Will you insist on further research at European level? Is a distinction between selling to professional and non-professional users a possibility? Some of the questions were already answered by you in the plenary session of 27 April. You stated that you were working on a National Action Plan for the Reduction of Pesticides. You also reported that you are working on a decision banning the placing on the market of suspicious products. You would also investigate the influence of the European study by the producer concerned. When do you expect to be ready with the National Action Plan on Pesticide Reduction? Which actors were negotiated to draw up that action plan? When will a decision be taken on the sale of certain suspicious substances? Does that also include the products containing arthropods? At what time will you conclude the conflict of interest with the European Food Safety Authority and when can Parliament expect a report? Following the European Commissioner's communications and the European Commission's initiative to work on a ten-year permit, I have the following questions. Are you in consultation with the actors at the European level? What does the European Commission intend to do with the products containing arthropods when the current 18-month licence expires? Will you insist on a new, uniform and clear study of the consequences? Do you give the mandate to do so yourself or do you insist on it at European level? What position does the Belgian Government take in the discussions between the European Commission and the Member States on a new licence for the next ten years? Will you discuss with the relevant ministers at state level the position that Belgium will take on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u10	Madam President, I am not going to repeat the same introduction as my colleagues so as not to be redundant and will confine myself to the questions that concern the same subject. Minister, I would also have liked to know the legislative obstacles to a general ban on glyphosate on individuals. Have these obstacles already been identified? Will a period of transition from the sale of products containing glyphosate be included in commercial surfaces? What will be done with the stock of remaining herbicides? What will be the next steps in the new actions you plan to take? I've changed my question a little bit according to the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u11	Mr Minister, like my fellow Members, I am asking questions about the follow-up to the answers you gave in plenary. I also ask questions about what you have announced about Monsanto's interference and the ten-year extension. So my introduction is the same as that of my fellow Members. I have the following questions. Where are you on the decision you announced in the plenary session of 27 April? When can we expect it? You have asked your administration to investigate the impact of Monsanto's interference. Do you have any concrete results from that investigation? If yes, what are the results? If not, when can we expect it? What position will Belgium take in the discussions between Member States, including the ten-year extension? Will you, on behalf of Belgium, urge Europe to make as much efforts as possible to punish players like Monsanto and to make in-depth evaluations of the agencies involved in Monsanto's interference in scientific research? Belgium would have written a letter to the Standing Committee on the influence of Monsanto on the assessments of EU agencies. You promised me you'd check it out. Have you been able to do that? If so, what is the result? If not, at what time can you do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u12	Mr Minister, we appreciate the evolution of certain positions on this issue, with a view to banning the marketing of substances containing glyphosate. We also note that regional arrangements are being made. I had previously asked you about the protection of amateur users, who are not informed about the precautions to be taken or the risks inherent in these products. However, when a sales ban is decided, stocks remain. The consumer should therefore continue to be properly informed. You told me that you were particularly attentive to the risks and to a better knowledge of them and the necessary precautionary measures. I did the test on the internet. I observed that by typing Roundup, you can add the item to its basket but I did not go to the end of the purchase procedure. There is no indication on the product regarding the precautions to be taken and the restrictions on use. While several arrangements are made to protect the particular user, it is worrying to see that everything is accessible no matter how via internet sale. Minister, what tools do you have in this regard? Have you committed any means? Most recently, the European Commission has relaunched the procedure for the authorisation of glyphosate, while the European Parliament wishes to obtain from the European Court of Justice access to the Monsanto studies which have been used by the European Agency. What are the reactions of the Member States in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said and written on several occasions, I have always been very vigilant and will continue to do so with regard to the risks posed by plant protection products. When the International Cancer Research Centre IARC published a study in July 2015 which concluded that arthropods may be carcinogenic to humans, I took this conclusion very seriously and immediately asked my administration to follow this dossier carefully. In November 2015, the Authority, which examined the opinion of the IARC, maintained that it is unlikely that arthropods is carcinogenic to humans. On 15 March 2017, the European Chemicals Agency confirmed this EFSA opinion. I have heard the statements made by the European Commissioner yesterday. However, the revelations arising from judicial decisions in the United States, according to which some studies, on which the EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) is based, have not been objective or would not have been objective, must arouse our attention, as must the information disseminated following the communication of e-mails in the context of the Monsanto Leaks case. I express myself to the conditional, in the current state of our knowledge. These would be at least two published studies that would have been subject to attempts at influence. I immediately requested my administration to proceed urgently with a review of the impact of these elements. I also asked my administration to verify whether the presence or absence of other similar studies could change his opinion. This report from my administration, which was submitted to me on 4 May, informed me that, a priori, the information disseminated about these studies, attempts at influence or influences on these studies would not have had any effect on the findings of the evaluations carried out by the authorities. So that there is no doubt, I have asked the European Commission to start this research so as to shed light on this case and, in particular, on the fact that the studies carried out at European level could have been influenced in their conclusions. As a result, EFSA replied that, with regard to this dossier, the published articles made clear links with a number of speakers, that the declarations of interest allowed the European authorities to be very vigilant about this situation. The EFSA's conclusion made it very clear that the various elements highlighted by these media revelations would not have had any influence on the EFSA's opinion either. The conclusions of my administration and EFSA are therefore consistent. More recently, we have received new communications. The press recently reported a letter sent by Professor Portier, toxicologist and former director of several US federal research institutes to the President of the European Commission. Based on his analysis, he informed him of the fact that, I quote, both EFSA and ECHA have failed to identify all statistically significant cases of an increase in the incidence of cancers in studies conducted on rodent pests. In concrete terms, Professor Portier, former director, wrote to the Commission saying that the two European agencies could not identify all the statistically significant cases of increased cancers in rodent studies. Once again, I wrote to the Commission asking for her to state her position on these worrying statements with regard to Professor Portier's recent communication. I must receive a reply shortly in this case from the Commission. On the sidelines of these statements, more and more voices are asking about Member States' control of how EFSA constitutes its documentary base and gives its opinions. Even if it is independent, EFSA is bound by the provisions of the pesticide regulations which stipulate what elements must be in a dossier for an active substance. In addition, these regulations determine the methodology to be followed when assessing the file. As we know, the file is compiled by the producer, by the applicant. It is then subject to the evaluation of a rapporteur Member State which has been appointed by the European Commission to carry out this report. The report of that Member State shall be sent to the EFSA, which shall then organise a peer review of the evaluation and which shall then draw up its conclusions. The EFSA offers Member States the opportunity to comment in this process both on the initial assessment report of the rapporteur Member State and on the draft conclusions. I think I can say in this respect that the collaboration between the European Commission, the Member States, the EFSA and the Agency is therefore very intense and very intense. That is not to say that I am in favour of a status quo on the method of evaluating plant protection products. As a result of this affair, fundamental questions may have arisen about this method. The concerns that lie at the root of these questions must be taken seriously. In this context, the German authorities announced the organisation in the autumn, i.e. in the second part of this year, of an international workshop to address these pressing issues, such as the financing of the studies on plant protection products and the way in which the published scientific literature is taken into account. I support that German initiative and have asked my administration to cooperate fully. An authority must always dare to question its way of working and ensure that it responds to scientific questions and also to societal expectations. I intend to base myself on this idea of asking the Commission to look at ways to ensure that the studies are more transparent and reliable, that the independent basis of the evaluations is guaranteed and that public confidence is increased. As far as the participation of the Regions is concerned, you are first of all aware of the distribution of powers with regard to the uses of plant products and the authorisation to place them on the market. Today we have a situation which, with regard to amateur use, is contrasted, complicated, with prohibition decisions in Wallonia and Brussels for amateur use and with the announcement of a suspension of authorisation for amateur use made in Flanders. We are talking very well here about amateur usages. As far as marketing is concerned, we have here announced a ban on marketing. We therefore have a Belgian model for the distribution of competences, with situations which are not exactly the same from Region to Region and, moreover, part of the competence which is federal. It is a paradox, which would like to be able to prohibit the use of products while allowing marketing or the other way round: to prohibit the marketing of products whose use would always be possible. It is of course appropriate for individuals and given the possibilities of buying on the internet and also, Mrs Jadin, the requirements of professionals, traders, gardeners and other operators to have a very clear line, a consultation between the various actors, in order to be coherent regarding both the prohibitions and the moment of the amateur bans – I insist, amateurs – complete on the whole decision and on the whole territory. As regards the participation of the Regions in the decision-making process on glyphosate, the Belgian legal framework does not provide for regions to be directly involved in the decision-making process at EU level. This is, in fact, a federal jurisdiction. However, the Regions are always informed of decisions that are being prepared at European level. At national level, the Regions are represented on the Committee for the Approval of Pesticides for Agricultural or Horticultural Use. This Accreditation Committee gives opinions on applications for authorisation of plant protection products in Belgium. Finally, as you noted, in May the European Commissioner announced a proposal to renew the authorisation of glyphosate for 10 years. And he just did it again! ECHA's final report is due by the end of this month. A first draft text would be made available to member States before the July meeting. During this meeting, Member States will have the opportunity to give their views in order to be able to conduct the discussions. The vote would come after the summer holidays. Therefore, as far as this European report is concerned, I will, of course, wait for the ECHA's final report, given all the questions I have put to the Commission, before taking a comprehensive and cross-cutting approach. On 27 April last I announced that I was going to take measures that would reduce the number of products available to private individuals by more than half. The measures are included in the Federal Reduction Plan for Pesticides 2018-2022. They are based on common sense and the precautionary principle. Moreover, they do not restrict themselves to products that receive a lot of media attention such as.......................................................................................................................................................................................... As far as I am concerned, I have always based my judgment on scientific advice, in a rigorous and analytical manner. At the same time, I have always stated that I would not hesitate to be guided by the precautionary principle in the slightest doubt. That is why I recently banned the placing on the market of products containing the mixture of terribly low-formulative taloamine. I will shortly, as announced in the Federal Reduction Plan for Pesticides, propose provisions banning the marketing and use of herbicides for individuals, except biopesticides or low-risk substances and basic substances. The measures with regard to herbicides are therefore global and not related to a specific product. They are justified by our intention to reduce the use of pesticides and to protect us from their use if they are not indispensable. I will also ban CMR2 products for individuals, fungicides and insecticides, which are suspected of having carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic effects. To date, only those products which were very or supposedly carcinogenic, mutagenic or reprotoxic were prohibited for individuals. This is a reduction in the number of products on the basis of the precautionary principle, taking into account the particular case of use by an amateur audience, which has not been trained to do so. The new Federal Pesticide Reduction Plan will enter into force at the end of this year. Immediately after its approval, I will be able to start the procedures for withdrawing authorisations for the herbicides concerned for private individuals. An amateur is not trained as a professional since professionals must have a plant licence in order to buy, distribute or use plant protection products. These phytolicence requirements are known to be stringent. In addition, the marketing authorisation requirements are different depending on whether you are a professional or an amateur. I am keeping the technical elements at your disposal. In addition, I would like to continue to work to encourage – I have visited a number of companies for this purpose – the development of low-risk alternatives, in particular to broaden the range of products whose use is safe or low-risk for both individuals and professionals. The evolution is in progress even if in some cases it still takes a little time. You will have observed this: reduction of products, new measures for professionals under the Federal Pesticide Reduction Plan, new restrictive provisions on use, setbacks from housing, circumstances of use for professionals, prohibition for individuals extended to other products (CMR2), questioning at European level following the revelations of attempts to influence or contributions such as that of Professor Portier, verification with our influence administration, support for the German approach to review the authorisation process. You can see that, in this case, we are in the offensive phase, of course, by taking a look at the needs of certain sectors, but by resolutely committing ourselves, within each aspect, to a form of management different from our environment, with, above all, the preservation of public health as a priority. You will not be, and I will not be, among those who have been, for a moment, intentive in such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply. Something like that always pleases us. You say that a number of controversial studies would not have influenced the European proposals. Then you lose yourself in a number of bureaucratic procedures, which you are trying to sell. At the same time, you also say that there are a number of elements which must lead to caution. We are convinced that various elements point to an unclear outcome of the studies, to uncertainty. You also say that the German initiative wants to bring more elements into a study. That you want to support this is a good thing. However, we believe that it is necessary to incorporate the principle of caution much more quickly. The Commission wants to extend for ten years, as I understand it. You also wish to wait in this area. As far as we're concerned, waiting is not an option. What I find positive in your speech is that you are taking a few more concrete steps. That is a good thing, although I think it is taking far too long. Let me briefly say that you are taking very cautious steps in the right direction. To us, however, when we talk about individuals, it is far too slow. As far as professionals are concerned, you're even more vague. As a result of your reply, we cannot understand the approach you want to adopt. However, you are competent for a number of elements. I could answer any of your arguments, but I won't do that here. I would like to stress that the precautionary principle is the most important. As far as I am concerned, all this is being looked at in the long term. As far as professionals are concerned, everything is very unclear. That is why we are tabling a motion which first of all calls for a speedier ban on private individuals. We also ask you to consult with the agricultural sector in order to look at this. I would like to stress once again that if the agricultural sector is not involved or is less involved, as I believe it is understood from your reply, then we are nowhere with this ban on private individuals. For this reason, our motion to work with the professionals to see how progress can be made very quickly in this matter and finally to ban it. We believe that we should also discuss, in cooperation with you, what support the professionals need for this. You will have to take the necessary initiatives. In our view, research into environmentally sound alternatives to fertilizers in agriculture, in cooperation with the Regions, should be given a significant boost in speed. That is why I am tabling this motion, Minister. In any case, thank you very much for the clear state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u15	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Minister. For those who advocate a total ban and for those who believe that there should be no ban, I have the next thought. It is vengeful that studies have been carried out and that those who seek a ban conclude from this that arthropods may be carcinogenic, while those who do not want a ban say that this is unlikely. It has come very far that we cannot reach a unanimous opinion. We can investigate whether the product is carcinogenic. Let an independent organisation figure it out, preferably as soon as possible, so that we are finally sure. I insist that we cannot determine whether or not it is carcinogenic. That bothers me very much. Has there been any influence from the sector on the investigations already carried out? One says that influence was exercised, the other says the opposite. Who are we supposed to believe in the end? We must then continue with what you have said. An international workshop will therefore take place in the autumn of 2017. Let us hope once again that these workshops are neutral and reliable, so that we can draw the right conclusions. We are certainly not at the end of our Latin. Many questions will be asked in the coming months. I must join you, Minister, when you say that we will have to wait until the end of July for decisions to be taken. In September or October we will have to take final decisions with the Belgian authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u16	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. They testify to the fact that you take this health problem very seriously. There is a need to consider the relevance of the opinions given as to its actual impact on health. I understand that further studies will still have to be carried out, since the experts interviewed do not reach the same conclusions. It is therefore important to clarify things! When the European Commission has final results, it will have to be discussed for our country as a whole, because some Regions prohibit it and others not quite. It is true that, for some, this issue is of symbolic importance. Take this case seriously, take the time to make the most neutral analyses and expertise possible before taking a firm position! I hear it will be done for the month of September.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. With me, you give the impression that you have a rather ambivalent attitude. On the one hand, you are rather lenient in your arguments relating to the Monsanto Papers and the manipulation of investigations that would not be independent. There are quite a few arguments that need to highlight the benefit of the doubt. On the other hand, there is your own decision on the basis of the precautionary principle, which you announced in plenary. You have made it more concrete with your decision to ban a number of products. Well, there you are, sir. However, I find it ambivalent that you should go along with those who doubt that there really was an influence there or that this influence would have led to other results in those studies. As far as the German initiative is concerned, it is all well and good, and of course I cannot oppose it at all. I can only welcome it, especially since it will be a matter of recommendations on transparency and independence of such studies. However, it also comes across as buying time that is no longer necessary. I believe that the puzzle pieces have all been known for a long time. For me this goes too slow and blows a little warm and cold at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u18	Minister, I am astonished at the kind of manswear that could be expressed with regard to Monsanto or the official study agencies. In your opinion, their attempts to influence them did not lead to any consequences. However, I would point out that there is a requirement for the independence and publicity of conflicts of interest. In this case, the FSA believes, like us, that not all researchers have made them public. If we do not take action whenever an attempt at influence appears, we will be constantly confronted with a lack of transparency and increased risks. Therefore, any desire to influence studies and, consequently, to deceive must be punished at European level. As far as consumer protection is concerned, I can only agree with you. This should be ensured by being consistent, whether it is a real sale or via the Internet. But your answer is not accurate. How do you envisage taking action to properly inform consumers in the absence of an interlocutor who can inform them about the precautions to be taken? That is why I believe that you need to refine the provisions that you are considering for this purpose. For the rest, I agree with the idea that we should move quickly towards a ban on these substances and replace them with an alternative solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u19	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karin Jiroflée and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Karin Jiroflée and the response of the Minister of Middle Classes, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture, and Social Integration, asks the government - to decree as soon as possible (next year being in the long term) the announced ban on glyphosate for individuals, - to examine, in consultation with the agricultural sector, how a ban on professionals can be achieved as soon as possible, - examine, in consultation with the agricultural sector, the aid that farmers need to convert to alternatives to glyphosate, - to accelerate the search for reasonable ecological alternatives to glyphosate in agriculture, in collaboration with the Regions." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Karin Jiroflée and the reply of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, calls on the Government - to issue as soon as possible the announced ban on arthropods for private individuals. Next year's a long term, - to examine, in consultation with the agricultural sector, the possibility of banning professionals as soon as possible, - to examine, in consultation with the agricultural sector, what support farmers need to switch to alternatives to satsumas, - to speed up research into ecologically sound alternatives to arthropods in agriculture, in cooperation with the Regions.' A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Kattrin Jadin. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kattrin Jadin. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u20	Minister, "This government has the ambition to provide the best possible service and the best possible quality at the best possible cost. To this end, it will simplify its structures, constantly innovate, place user orientation at the centre of its processes, recruit the best talent, ensure cost efficiency and reduce public levies. To this end, administrations will make maximum use of new ICTs." I have just quoted an excerpt from the government agreement to which I fully subscribe, as I subscribe to the principle only once, which aims to facilitate the lives of businesses by avoiding them - I quote again your agreement: "to transmit information already in the possession of the federal public authorities". In my view, this excellent principle should also apply to administrations. However, it is up to me that this is not always the case and certainly not in the context of the new "commodity" procedure which the CPAS must follow in order to implement the measure called "Article 60 § 7". As a reminder, this measure consists in proposing a fixed-term employment with a view to opening up the right to unemployment benefits. It is the ONEM that must provide the CPAS with an estimate of the number of working days required. To this end, the Office shall use a form in which it requests the CPAS to transmit by paper the professional background of the person concerned. However, these data are known by the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale. This simple example of complication leads me to ask you whether reducing the administrative burden on CPAS as a result of the diversification of the missions entrusted to them is one of your priorities. Have you set targets for your administration to do so? For example, is there at least one impact analysis of the administrative burden for each new provision involving CPAS? In this specific case of Article 60, would it be possible to provide for a "on-line" consultation of the Banque Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u21	Madam Member, thank you for this reminder of an important passage from the government agreement. Since the last reform of the State, the implementation of Article 60 § 7 has, as you know, been the responsibility of the Regions. However, the objectives of Article 60 § 7 of the Organic Law of CPAS remain the same. Above all, this measure aims to promote work experience, enabling integration through work. This measure then helps the beneficiary to justify a minimum period of work enabling him, if necessary, to obtain the fuller benefit or the short-term benefit of certain social benefits, including unemployment benefit. It is in this latter context that your question arises. Before granting a contract under Article 60 § 7 to one of its beneficiaries, the CPAS must know the number of remaining working days necessary to allow entitlement to unemployment benefits. Until recently, you were right: there was no fixed procedure for access to this information. Paper exchanges of information, therefore unstructured, could take place between the CPAS and the ONEM. But in consultation with the ONEM, my administration, the SPP Social Integration, communicated on 30 April 2017 to all CPAS a new single and standardised procedure. So it's very recent. This new procedure now allows data exchange to be carried out directly between the CPAS and the ONEM. However, I agree with you that this is a procedure which is still provisionally in paper form. However, this time it has the merit of being unique, and of involving all the offices of the ONEM and the CPAS, which was not the case previously. As you rightly point out, we must continue to reduce the administrative burden on CPAS. That is why my administration has already contacted the ONEM and the Bank-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale, the BCSS, in order to obtain an electronic flow of consultation for the CPAS, enabling them to obtain this information more easily and faster. However, it turns out that this flow requires a number of work. It is not easy to develop, because the rules for opening up unemployment rights are, as you know, quite complex. It should be considered on a case-by-case basis. For more information on this aspect of unemployment, I would like to invite you to ask my colleague Kris Peeters. More generally, in a number of other provisions, we are putting in place communication flows with the Office of Foreigners and between the CPAS themselves, so that, in as many situations as possible, the administrative burden can be reduced. Indeed, administrative time is time that CPAS cannot devote to other tasks that are important to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u22	Thank you for these constructive answers, Minister. It is clear that these must be priorities in all sectors, whether it is with regard to CPAS that are overburdened or otherwise. Simplify the administrative burden, remove the paper as much as possible. I hear you're on the right track. Go on like this. We will talk to Kris Peeters because I also have problems with delays and administrative complications in other areas to answer urgent questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u23	Minister, an opinion of the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA concerns a draft royal decree on the control of the circus of the fields. This draft royal decree seemed to circumscribe splintering only with the cirse of the fields in the adjacent agricultural plots and buffer strips. The Scientific Committee's opinion goes further and calls for the destruction to be extended to three other species of thistles throughout the country, with the exception of nature reserves and protected areas. This draft royal decree will not apply in Flanders, since it repealed the Act of 2 April 1971 on the control of organisms harmful to plants and plant products. In other words, federal regulations would only apply on Walloon soil. Given the Walloon powers in the field of nature and environment protection - including the control of pesticide use but we also have a national plan to control pesticides - could you clarify the reasons behind the introduction of such a federal regulation, especially since in its destruction instructions, the AFSCA advocates the cutting and use of pesticides? Secondly, on the merits, the draft royal decree, if it follows the opinion of the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA, may have disastrous effects on biodiversity and on the survival of certain spoilers. It is true that these thistles are especially necessary for their feeding and survival. What procedure are you going to put in place to protect this biodiversity, especially that relating to thistles, which, let us recall, the regulation of the fight came from a time when workers were injuring themselves in the fields by harvesting flax. Today, machines replace them. This leads me to ask you what is the interest you identify and which requires that the Act of 2 April 1971 relating to the control of organisms harmful to plants be retained in our law. What are the reasons for the continuation today of the Royal Decree of 19 November 1987 which obliges the owners of the land to eliminate thistles? Finally, Mr Minister, if the draft royal decree on the fight against the circus of the fields is maintained, how will you reconcile it with the Council of State's decision of 9 March last in the sense of a consecration of essentially regional competence - Flanders having also abolished the 1971 law?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u24	Mrs Gerkens, in this period of examinations for students, if we really wanted to ask a difficult question to a law student, we could ask him to take stock of the legal situation in Belgium with regard to splintering! For now - we've made it simple in our country! - the responsibilities for splintering fall partly within the federal authority and partly within the regions. The Federal Authority is competent to take plant protection measures on and around agricultural parcels in order to protect agricultural production. It blooms good the past! Other areas, such as natural and public green areas, may be splintered as a regional matter. You have observed, like me, that these areas may tangle, touch, etc., and how simple it must be to apply! In accordance with Article 6, § 1.5 of the special law of 8 August 1980, which is famous in our country and relating to the reform of our institutions, in the field of agriculture throughout the Belgian territory, the authority is federal and therefore solely competent for setting standards and monitoring with a view to ensuring the safety of the food chain. This concerns the elimination of organisms harmful to plants and plant products, including, therefore, plants whose spread must be limited on and around agricultural parcels in order to protect agricultural production. This was also confirmed by the agreement of the 2012 Interministerial Conference on Agricultural Policy and the opinions of the State Council. That is the question of skills and how they apply. In its judgment of March 2017, the Council of State, you recalled, broke the decree of the governor of the province of Antwerp of 22 February 2016 on splintering. This decision was the result of the Governor's order based - be careful! - on the Royal Decree of 19 November 1987, adopted in implementation of the Law of 2 April 1971, had been repealed by the Flemish Region as from 1 January 2014, in respect of its powers only - the competences of the Flemish Region. The Act of 2 April 1971 and, consequently, the Royal Decree of November 1987 have not been repealed with regard to federal jurisdiction over agriculture. Sophistication on and around agricultural parcels therefore remains still applicable at national level. This legislation therefore requires the control of four species of thistle, among more than twenty species present in Belgium. It follows from all this that an assessment and updating of this legislation on the elimination of thistles is necessary. This process is under way at the federal level. A draft royal decree was submitted to me by the Public Health FPS and it is in this context that the opinion of the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA was requested. This is an independent scientific opinion, requested for each bill and a royal decree on risk assessment and management for the food chain, animal health and plant protection. This opinion is completely independent of the judgment of the Council of State. In addition to the advice of the FASC Scientific Committee, there are plans to consult with stakeholders, agricultural organizations, environmental organizations and public consultation on the Federal Bees Plan, to which I attach great importance. Finally, the project will be discussed in consultation with the Regions during the Interministerial Conference on Agricultural Policy. For the moment, I am analysing the various proposals of the Public Health FPS to limit mandatory splintering only at the edge of the fields, on and around agricultural plots. In any case, I would like to see simplification and some transparency in this legislation. I also hope that there will be some relaxation and, moreover, I take into account the fact that thistles are important in the environmental chain for bees. In my decision, I will take into account the opinion of the agricultural organisations with regard to the elimination of the very invasive circus of the fields, which is important for the protection of their plots, but above all the ecological interest of thistles for the bees and other pollinators, who play a crucial role. This new draft Royal Order will only affect the federal portion of the regulation. Where appropriate, regional authorities will have to act themselves if they wish to adapt legislation as far as they are concerned. We will, of course, try to consult each other in order to arrive at an understandable, applicable and, I hope, reasonable legislation. Your question allowed me to remember a few memories, especially when I was going, little boy, to make thistles in the meadows. At the time, the field guard considered them to be invasive and truly dangerous.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u25	That's right, Minister. For my part, I have a trick: I cut them and empty the water from the hollow stem. Then they die. This technique is of formidable efficiency! I'm surrounded by thistles since I live in the countryside. It's wonderful, isn't it? In any case, I thank you for your reply, which also reminded me of some memories. It has also made it possible to re-establish the competences and areas concerned. I had not taken this dimension sufficiently into account in my question. It is, of course, appropriate to provide for consultations and a complementary opinion that integrates agricultural and environmental concerns as well as the problems of pollination and survival of bees. Is a timing scheduled?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u26	It's the result that counts. We have a beautiful text. There's no fire at the lake. This is not our priority, but I would like to resolve the issue in the light of the unacceptable nature of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u27	Question No 18383 by Mrs Rita Gantois is postponed. Questions Nos. 18578, 18579 and 18585 by Mrs. Yoleen Van Camp are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u28	Madam President, Minister, the aim of the fight against social fraud is normally to promote the proper management of the resources allocated to social services. Strong social services must be able to direct their resources to those who really need them and exclude those who do not fall under the conditions set out by law. Nothing more logical! This is an essential policy aimed at maintaining and strengthening our social security. In addition, an explicit policy has a deterrent effect and creates a climate of fairness among citizens. It's fundamental. It is well known that, since its inception, this government has invested a great deal in its policy to combat social fraud. After more than two years of work, results must certainly begin to appear. It was in this context, Minister, that I wanted to question you. What actions have you undertaken to prevent and combat social fraud, more specifically in CPAS? Are there figures on the results of the implementation of these actions? Is there a more or less precise idea of the amounts that may have already been recovered? Finally, will you consider further actions in the fight against social fraud in the future and until the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u29	Madam President, honourable Member, as you have rightly pointed out, the means of social assistance must be mobilised towards those who really need it. Our goal is to make sure. CPAS are – as we know – an important link in this policy. According to a study conducted by PWC in December 2013 on social fraud within CPAS, quantitative and qualitative analyses have shown that social fraud within CPAS remains low. It has been quantified since this study has shown that fraud does not reach 5%, even if it is already too much and even though it is still difficult to quantify a phenomenon which, by definition, is not fully known. The preventive work that is being done, the monitoring work seems important to me and it is a priority of the government. We find the exercise of this priority thanks to the establishment of two other instruments which I will detail, important for the CPAS in addition, of course, to the social survey to examine all the elements of the situation of the beneficiary or potential beneficiary. For each request for assistance addressed to it, the CPAS has an obligation to carry out a social survey in order to gather the necessary information so as to arrive at a precise and complete diagnosis of the existence and extent of the need for assistance and to propose the most appropriate means of dealing with it. The home visit and the consultation of data via the Social Security Carrefour Bank flows are an integral part of this social survey. I was talking to you about two other instruments. The first one is the flashing lights. When an application for aid, grant, intervention and integration income is made by the CPAS, these indicators are the result of an application that crosses the data provided by the CPAS and the flows of the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité sociale. As soon as there is an inconsistency, an alert in the form of a flashing signal is sent directly into the e-box of the CPAS. As a result of this alert, it is the responsibility of the CPAS to investigate the reported cases and to take the necessary steps, after verification, to recover any aid that may be wrongly granted. Currently, data cross-checks are effective for the following data: family and birth benefits, unemployment benefits, cadastral income, pensions, income from paid work, insurability and allowances for disabled persons. Since the implementation of the indicators in 2014, they have enabled the recovery of €7,280,610 following checks on applications for assistance, both for integration income and social assistance. It can also be seen that the continuous improvement of the system also allows for an increase in the financial return. For example, in January and February 2017 alone, a recovery of €739,209 was found. The second additional element is the introduction of process analysis in CPAS. In addition to these controls, a process analysis is carried out in at least fifty CPAS each year. This analysis may be similar to an audit, which is carried out by the inspectors with the CPAS. During this analysis, processes related to accounting processing and debt tracking are examined. The objective of the analysis is to use the inspector's expertise to formulate proposals for correction, improvement and collaboration with CPAS actors, in order to optimize decision-making or control processes within the CPAS. In addition, the inspection department of the SPP Social Integration has the task of increasing the accountability of CPAS. The flashers that I have just mentioned and the analysis of the processes perform and allow the necessary controls while helping to ensure that the CPAS work precisely, attentively and correctly. The Inspection department also monitors flashing agents and assists in the analysis of CPSA processes. It is carrying out a rigorous follow-up of proposals for improvement. That is why I have also released budgets this year in order to strengthen the inspection department of the SPP Social Integration of five inspectors. In addition to their inspection and control tasks, the latter are also required to work, through analyses and their presence on the ground, to develop and optimize tools to further improve the fight against social fraud. In addition, I wanted to strengthen the legal service of my administration, in particular to combat the status of false independent. We see the emergence of real movements, of flows of nationals of certain countries of the European Union who seek to unfairly benefit from social intervention with the CPAS from their first period of installation in our country. Normally, installation in our country is conditional on the holding of a profession or on the possibility of exercising it or at the disposal of resources. I have conducted consultations with Secretary of State Franken which have led to the establishment of a direct flow of information and coordinated action between the SPP Social Integration, the Office of Foreigners and INASTI. We are currently working to identify the presence of resources or property abroad by a number of beneficiaries. I think I mentioned the main elements. A number of things have been put on the table. We continue the work, with the reinforcement of the teams, the links with the Office of Foreigners, the status of self-employed and the identification of property abroad. In particular, we have been interested in what is happening in the Netherlands. We will come with proposals in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer. In asking you this question, I did not really think that you would bring so much concrete and interesting information. I also thank you for the figures, because we do not necessarily receive them when we ask some questions. This is important because the phenomenon of social fraud is sometimes underestimated. Your results are encouraging. I will bounce back on two aspects. Acting to empower and promote the autonomy of CPAS is really fundamental. You have committed resources in this regard, including strengthening inspection services and legal services. Honestly, I didn't think we'd go that far. But, if I understand your answer correctly, the number of false independents who would settle would still be high. We must, of course, support the independents on Belgian soil. Still, these people have to be regular. You are doing impeccable work in this regard. Finally, even if few people attend this meeting, I can only encourage you to disseminate this information to the general public and CPAS. As a member of a communal power, which therefore exercises guardianship over them, if I had not asked the question here, I might not have been aware - as an unnamed mayor - of what really goes on in my own CPAS. It is therefore necessary to convey this information of crucial importance for good communal management.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u31	Mr. President, Minister, agroecology is a way to design production systems that build on the functionality of ecosystems. It amplifies them while aiming at reducing environmental pressures – for example, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, limiting the use of plant protection products – and preserving natural resources. It is a question of making maximum use of nature as a factor of production, maintaining its capacity for renewal. This implies the use of a set of techniques which consider the agricultural holding as a whole. It is through this systemic approach that technical and economic results can be maintained or improved while improving environmental performance. With this method, would it be possible to completely stop the use of pesticides? Have any studies been carried out on this subject and brought to the attention of your department?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u32	Mr President, honourable Member, this is both an interesting and complex question. We have mentioned in the previous questions how much we are committed to reducing or even abolishing the use of plant protection products. The implementation of the new federal pesticide reduction plan and the bans I mentioned earlier are important steps, whether they concern non-professionals or professionals. On the other hand, we see how much – whether in terms of production or consumption – organic production is becoming increasingly successful. I was on Monday at the European Council of Agriculture Ministers in Luxembourg. In full intelligence with my regional colleagues, we defend the protection of bio and the current state of the residue requirements in organic products, so as not to devalue bio. We are convinced that this is an important and growing future for agricultural production. In addition, research and innovation are important allies. I am convinced that science, in the short and medium term, will increasingly offer us alternatives at low risk or completely organic in the treatment of insects, diseases or grasses. For having met several scientists and visited companies, I believe that these alternatives are one of the important meetings that we will have in the future and I hope that we will continue in this direction: to reduce the use of plant products, to be demanding in relation to the protection of organic products, to ensure that everything that is no longer indispensable or which could have dangerous consequences is removed, to support the economic model which makes it possible to promote in short circuits and in the organic and proximity sectors and to join with the Regions which have a share of competences in the matter, in an evolution of our models. All this represents the meaning of my commitment, ensuring that we do not stigmatize other types of valuations of our agricultural products.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. We share these objectives and I can only encourage you to make progress in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u34	Question No 18891 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin will be answered by the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u35	Minister, I am being approached by centres that welcome young people in situations of great difficulty and work with them in socio-professional reintegration modules. In particular, they use student jobs to enable these young people to reintegrate into the workplace. The Royal Decree of 25 April 2014 on the right to social integration makes a difference between scholarship and non-students, since a young person who benefits from social integration and works as a job worker is entitled to an immunised monthly income. The CPAS cannot deduct this income from social integration income, but the amount of this immunized amount, from this ceiling, is different depending on whether you are a stock marketer or not. For a young fellow, immunization is limited to 66.73 euros per month and for a young non-student, it is higher and equals 239.25 euros per month. This difference seems to me to be a nonsense that could push, or even clearly push, young fellows to work in black in order to overcome this inequality, especially since the CPAS obliges them to be fellows since it allows them to supplement their income. In 2016, according to Randstad Interim, 18% of students worked without any contract. This dimension of non-contractualization of a job as a student is to be taken into account. Scholarship students are, of course, the most fragile, precarised, and less well-earned students. It is therefore a bit paradoxical that they are more penalized than others. I would have liked to know the arguments that justify this difference in treatment. I would like to know whether you are considering harmonising the career integration path of young people who benefit from social integration income, regardless of their status, whether they are scholarship holders or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u36	Mrs Gerkens, you are right, the origin of Article 35(2) of this Royal Decree of 11 July 2002 dates back to the time when Mr Vande Lanotte was, if I am not mistaken, in charge of the budget, social integration and social economy. The Royal Decree of July 2002 lays down general rules on the right to social integration. It anticipates this difference between scholarship and non-students. This measure was originally intended to reduce the income gap between scholarship students and non-students receiving integration income, knowing that they are all faced with the same expenses. It was a little philosophy. The charges were the same, and some were already helped by a scholarship, while others were not. Complementary amounts and immunization were therefore different. As is well known, the scholarship supports young people to gain access to education, so that they can have every opportunity to continue their studies and to have a professional future. It seems essential to us that the CPAS help these young people in financial difficulty, also avoiding the indirect traps that you have pointed out. I am currently working on a reform of the socio-occupational integration system, which I hope is ambitious. Reform options are under consideration, and even more so than under consideration, because they are already well advanced. The question of the difference between scholarship and non-students is one of the elements that we are looking at, in order to avoid discouraging young people from taking a student job, and to avoid pushing them to work in black or grey, in any case undeclared, as you are very keenly pointing out. The reform proposals are the subject of consultation with the CPAS federations. I'll see them again soon. In this project, we aim at administrative simplification. We want to eliminate the multiplicity of rates, according to the statutes. We will try to stick well to reality, while simplifying. The aim will be to encourage the taking of a professional activity, also for students, while avoiding the pitfalls that you have highlighted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u37	Thank you, Minister. I can only be satisfied with your answer. You have an analysis that joins mine, but also that of many actors in the field. Indeed, if we look at everything that is put in place to help young people in difficulty, who cannot be supported by their families, we realize that they must deserve this help. A student who is assisted by the CPAS is expected to work during the holidays as well, to choose studies that guarantee that he or she will find a job, while the other students are not asked for anything like that. In addition, I find it important to support them regarding this difference between immune ceilings. I hope that you will find a solution following the ongoing consultations and consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u38	It's information that's been circulating a lot on the networks, and I've been arrested by private individuals but also by small farmers in Hesbaye. They have hawthorn hedges around their property. These hedges are of course involved in biodiversity, nesting, and play a particularly important role. As with other fruit trees, fire can ravage them. We had a dramatic episode several years ago. Since then, there has probably been excessive caution with regard to the hawthorn. Some believe that it is inevitable that the fire will re-develop and spread everywhere. According to the information I have received, AFSCA inspectors visit private individuals to ask them to cut their hawthorn hedge, in order to protect the fields of neighbouring fruit trees. In general, these fields are large and intensive, and therefore particularly fragile. The inspectors went so far as to say that positive bacterial fire samples were taken when it was later discovered that the samples had not been taken or that they were not. So there is anger and incomprehension. Solutions have sometimes been found, as the fruit producer has agreed with hedge owners to carry out regular tests on hawthorn hedges and to take action if there was a problem. Therefore, it is possible to have concerted processes and ways that ensure both the protection of fruit trees and the protection of biodiversity through the thorn hedges. Minister, where are the powers of the AFSCA in relation to these interventions? Under what criteria does it operate? Could regular preventive testing of all fire-sensitive plants be a solution? Perhaps it is necessary to advocate or demand watering with the Bordeaux boil, but why ask for the removal of these hedges in an arbitrary manner? How to maintain the balance between biodiversity and local fruit production?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u39	I would like to recall that the mission of AFSCA is to ensure the safety of the food chain - as everyone knows - and the quality of our food - we also know - and, of course, to protect the health of humans, animals and plants. In other words, his skills also include plant health. Sometimes we have less of that in mind in the general public. Bacterial fire is a harmful bacterium which is subject to mandatory control, in accordance with the European provisions on protective measures against the introduction of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread. There is a European framework which, in any case, obliges us to fight. The AFSCA is responsible for the enforcement and enforcement of these regulations. As such, AFSCA must carry out controls in nurseries, fruit producers, gardens, parks, squares and elsewhere, and in nature in general, in order to detect the presence of this bacterium. If contamination is discovered, control measures are mandatory. This involves the removal and destruction of parts of affected plants. Because there are no other means of combating the disease, I am told – I confess not to be a specialist in bacterial fire. On the AFSCA website, a brochure provides information on the disease and preventive measures. In some areas, known as buffer zones, research and control of bacterial fire is being strengthened to ensure the marketing of healthy plants. It should be noted that these areas, if significant, represent only a relatively small area of our territory, i.e. 904 km2 in 2007, which is equivalent to just under 3% of Belgian territory. In these areas, a thorough inspection of the tall plants visible from the highway is planned. If there are clearly visible symptoms of bacterial fire, the controller is asked to contact the resident and ask for permission to take samples. You rightly stress the need for the maintenance, support and maintenance of biodiversity. In order to protect this biodiversity, a step-by-step approach to the control measures to be implemented has been put in place. Depending on the severity of the damage, contaminated plants will be cut at least 50 cm below the lowest infection site or cut to ground level. This last option occurs only in cases of severe or recurrent infestation. The grubbing-up of infested plants is only required when the measures I have just mentioned have not proved effective. If you think that there are particular problems, I am listening, but it seems to me that my services have already well integrated the need to fight bacterial fire but also to preserve biodiversity and gradation in the intervention. I also told you about the buffer zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers. At other times and on other topics, there are also difficulties in information and understanding. I think that there has probably been insufficient information here on the measurement or gradation of actions. There may be a way to better inform those concerned about regular visits and progressive interventions. In this way, these people will be aware and will not feel that they risk losing their hedges, since the goal is not the disappearance of these hedges but the fight against bacterial fire. I hope you can relay that concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic689x.u41	Mrs Van Peel asked for the postponement of her question No 19189 and Mrs Cassart turned her question No 19126 into a written question.
