ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u1	Colleagues, Minister, we will begin this afternoon's work. Questions Nos. 22192 and 22193 by Ms. Ben Hamou are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u2	Mr President, Minister, people living around the Lantin prison site have some concerns about a plan to expand the prison of the same name. The situation was relayed by the media. One example was a farm manager who was concerned about their future. We are aware that the prison is completely old-fashioned and requires urgent work to address overcrowding and work on the integration of those who are housed in it. An alternative to the plan to extend the prison, as it appears in the masterplan, has been proposed. This alternative is intended to increase the capacity of the Paifve social defence institution and the Verviers prison, which is planned, in order to relocate the detainees to these two places of detention before the demolition of the current Lantin prison and the subsequent reconstruction of the Lantin prison in situ. In view of the impact on its inhabitants, the municipal council voted against the project and gave an unfavourable opinion. You told us, during the analysis of your general policy note, that the consultations had been initiated with the municipality but also with the city of Liège. Have the consultations and negotiations taken place? Have these been successful? What did they achieve? When can we expect an improvement in the conditions of detention in Lantin?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u3	Minister, to address the issue, there is this biological exploitation right next to the prison with the extension originally planned. In your general policy note, you are announcing consultations with Liège Europe Métropole in particular. There are still concerns. Where are we at in the commune of Juprelle in particular, and beyond the operators, in the whole of the region of Liège? What will probably be the paths that, to this day, emerge and to what subdivision will your choice and that of the Régie des Bâtiments be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for my delay because of the unexpected work in plenary this morning. With respect to the proposed challenges and sites, I would like to refer you first to my previous response in this regard. I understand the concerns. I would also like to clarify my willingness to find a quick solution to the conditions in Lantin prison. In the meantime, I have asked the Régie to plan the necessary maintenance work on an ongoing basis, until we can close this wing of the prison. I learned my lesson in the prisons in Brussels and Haren. The meeting you mentioned took place on 7 December with Liège Métropole. These discussions were constructive. However, I cannot give you any details yet. I can only tell you that alternatives are being analysed. As long as they meet our standards, it may be considered to request an amendment to the Council of Ministers for this part of Masterplan 3. I can already assure you that it is impossible to carry out a new construction project within the walls of the current prison, since the rest of the prison must remain operational and that, in addition, it would create a mixed site, a part for classical management and another part under the DBFM formula, which is not desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u5	Thank you for your answer. You confirm your general policy note: to reconcile the different interests, both those aimed at protecting the prison population of Lantin and those of the inhabitants, I would say, of the greater Liège, to be brief. You told us about a meeting, which you couldn't tell us much, but that you were studying the alternatives. When do we have to ask you again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u6	It takes time, but we hurry as fast as possible because the situation is urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u7	I'll ask you again when you get back to school. I wanted to do it in two months if you asked me to give you some time, but as I don't know...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u8	The end of January would be indicated, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u9	End of January! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u10	Mr President, Minister, my question is more specifically about the security of the state in general. I was questioned by an article in Knack entitled "Powerlist Veiligheid: de 10 Belgien die u beschermen". Of these ten people, you were in first place and Mr. Jambon in fourth place. It was only Mr. Van Leeuw, who was mentioned as a Francophone. I think you have inherited a certain situation, but each time you have to put the work back on the job to try, as far as possible, to achieve a harmony between French- and Dutch-speaking as part of the management of all sectors, including safety. That is why we have often fought to ensure that the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice do not have the same linguistic role. Here, the situation clearly shows an almost systematic absence of Francophones, whether at the level of the leadership positions of the federal police, the intelligence services, the Sûreté, the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS), the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM), the Crisis Centre, the monitoring bodies, the National Security Council. I do not wish to accuse you of this, but I would like to ask you how to restore harmony. You will agree that a harmonious linguistic balance in security and oversight is more than desirable. What about the commitment of the deputy French-speaking director of the OCAM, who would slightly reverse this trend? This position is, if I am not mistaken, still not filled. We also have in mind what happened at the Crisis Centre. Minister, my question is constructive, consider it as such. How could we work to find a better balance?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u11	Thank you for that question, Mrs. Onkelinx. It should be noted first of all that the security landscape encompasses a large number of organs, some of which are led by Francophones. I am thinking in particular of the Federal Prosecutor's Office that you mentioned, but also of the Financial Information Processing Unit or the Central Seizures and Confiscation Body. In addition, there is a legal framework for linguistic parity within several bodies, which has an impact on the linguistic role of the head of the department concerned. This is the case for the Federal Police Steering Committee, the Federal Police Directorates, the Threat Analysis Coordinating Committee, the Central Body for Seizures and Confiscations, the State Security Department, or the Investigations Department of Standing Committees P and R, Committee R, which is not within my jurisdiction and is also headed by a Francophone. In addition, each appointment is subject to an objective selection procedure regulated by law. As far as the judiciary is concerned, this selection is organised by an independent body: the Supreme Council of Justice. Finally, there are no legal provisions requiring linguistic parity at the level of the leaders of the various bodies involved in security. This does not, of course, mean that the search for a certain balance, a certain "harmony", as you point out, is completely ignored, but it is not always easy to achieve, when it is also necessary to combine parity within each body and take into account the selection procedure. As for your other two more specific questions, the R Committee is a parliamentary body and the members of this Committee are appointed by the House. Parity is provided for in the law. The position of Director of R Investigations is currently occupied. With regard to the post of Deputy Director of the OCAM, where I regretted the departure of Mrs Meunier, a reform of the OCAM is under way. A working group has been established for this purpose. It is possible that in this context it would appear necessary to rethink the standard profile of the Deputy Director of OCAM. This will be decided shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u12	Minister, you are making a series of observations. Nevertheless, the impression is that the scale, which still leans very broadly on one side, is not close to being rebalanced. You say that in one of the positions, it may be possible to rebalance a little. Just where to name, all of a sudden, the profile will be rethought as a result of a reform. We don't know when, but here. Always this impression that whenever it is possible to rebalance the balance, something else is done. I'm very worried. I can't tell you anything else. I have noted that you have put the CTIF and the organ of the seizures to try to compensate for everything else. It's a little light, even though their role is very important. I'll go back to the OCAM. I'll take a closer look at the profiles and procedures in progress. I think it would be of no use to anyone if this imbalance persisted. See, for example, the National Security Council. There's something wrong. Fortunately, there is the federal prosecutor, Mr. Van Leeuw. The Prime Minister is linguistically asexual. As the only francophone minister, Dider Reynders must therefore, together with the federal prosecutor, face up to an aréopage. I'm just saying that it would deserve to be rebalanced. I'll come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u13	Mr President, Minister, before the summer of this year it was decided to grant longer leave periods to detainees, provided that they meet certain criteria. This measure was introduced following an increase in overpopulation in prisons and the associated problem, in particular that the preparation of prisoners for their return to society would be delayed. The leave is granted in various periods of 7 days' leave, 7 days' detention. Of course, a number of categories of detainees are excluded from this regime. For example, these are perpetrators of sexual acts, or those convicted of terrorist offences. Mr Minister, can you explain exactly how this system works? What exactly are the modalities and criteria to be met in order to qualify for them? The purpose of this measure is to enable the prisoner himself to take initiatives, in the light of his or her return to society. Is that feasible if one alternates a week in prison with a week outside? Have there been any problems with prisoners who could benefit from this measure? If so, which one? It seems logical to me to take as little security risks as possible. Is this system still in place? If so, until when? If not, when did it end? How many prisoners have been able to enjoy this regime and can you give me an overview of their number per penitentiary institution? Finally, quid with the control of this system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, the convicted persons who are entitled to an extended penitentiary leave must meet the following conditions: they have already undergone a well-executed three-six-hour leave granted under my powers; they agree to the extended penitentiary leave, including the authorisation with special conditions imposed on them for their previous leave, to the extent that those conditions are still appropriate; and accept the special condition that they should not go abroad unless the Director decides otherwise. The Director shall take the decision to grant an extended penitentiary leave and shall ensure the feasibility of the measure by means of a known leave address, the agreement of the receiving environment and sufficient means of subsistence. After all, it is important that the prisoners are not placed in a danger situation. The following convicted persons are excluded from the measure: those sentenced under the four categories provided for in the special instructions on extremism; those sentenced under one or more prison sentences for the offences referred to in Article 371 first to 378 of the Criminal Code, in particular acts of morality; those sentenced under one or more prison sentences, the total of which exceeds 10 years of effective main prison sentences; those sentenced under the criminal penalty of imprisonment. As for the practical arrangements, the leave is granted in alternating periods of 7 days, that wants 7 seven days' leave, 7 days' detention. The procurator of the King of the arrondissement in which leave takes place shall be informed as soon as possible about the granting of leave and its modalities. The audit and follow-up shall be carried out in accordance with Articles 12 to 14 of the Act of 17 May 2006 on external legal status. As far as your second question is concerned, those convicted who are on extended penitentiary leave and who are thus in this rotating system will be given more opportunities to work on their reintegration. A lot of these inmates do that, too. The measure offers them more opportunities to find their place in the family. There are inmates who work during the week they are on leave, for example as interim or part-time. Others use leave to regularise their administrative situation or to seek work. As far as your third question is concerned, an evaluation of the measure of extended penitentiary leave took place in September. This showed that a total of 23 appointments were revoked on the basis of a violation of the conditions imposed, such as those relating to alcohol consumption, a late return or a violation of the conditions regarding the reception environment. It is a withdrawal of 23 leave out of a total of 366 extended penitentiary leave between 6 July and 25 September. To date, 559 prisoners have made use of this leave mode. As far as your fourth question is concerned, it is true that the measure is still in force. My staff are currently finalising a broader evaluation and I will then decide whether and under what conditions the measure will continue. A table with an overview per prison is provided to the secretariat of the committee for your information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u15	Minister, I am pleased that you are evaluating the measures. I would like to draw your attention to two points in your reply. You say that the King's Attorney will be informed as soon as possible of the leave system granted. What am I supposed to do with the words "as soon as possible"? And if it's just the King's Attorney, what about following the terms? Does this mean that leave is not included in the ANG? Are the victims being notified? It is reported that even those sentenced to ten years' imprisonment are eligible for a system of half-freedom, if I may put it this way. In order for such a system to exist, it seems to me that an appropriate and strict follow-up is more than necessary in order to eliminate, at least as far as possible, any security risk. The figures show that this is a real concern. You say 23 out of 366 have been revoked. This means that it went wrong in 10 % of the cases. We are therefore taking a serious risk with people who know that they are capable of very serious acts, have been convicted of them and are subject to a penalty in which the court in any case considered that protection of society is necessary for some period of time. I would ask you to consider this carefully and perhaps discuss it with Parliament before the measure is continued. Maybe I'll come back here later with a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u16	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u17	Mr Minister, my question on the right to speed was prompted by the recent riots in Brussels. At that time, it was assured that the rioters would be tried by means of a rapid legal procedure. In concrete terms, this would mean that the identified offenders would have to appear in court in January 2018. Given the huge backlog in the Brussels courts, we can call that positive. Nevertheless, we must dare to be a little more ambitious. In order to avoid a sense of impunity, we must be able to act quickly and decisively in such matters. An integrated police and justice lick-on policy requires that suspects be tried and punished as soon as possible. The procedure that can currently be used to speed someone up in court is the procedure of invocation by minutes, Article 216c of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In summary, the procedure provides for a call within the following deadlines: either a call to appear within 10 days to two months, or a judgment within 2 months of the hearing. In addition, there is also the so-called immediate appearance in our Code of Criminal Procedure. According to that procedure, the appearance before the court is between four and seven days and a judgment is given after a maximum of five days. However, that procedure was partially annulled by the judgment of the Arbitration Court of 18 March 2002. If you want to use the term "fast-track', I think the procedure of immediate appearance is worth that name rather than the procedure of invocation by minutes. For me, rapid law means that there will be a ruling very soon after the facts and not after months, as in the aforementioned procedure. Mr Minister, first of all, when it is made clear that the perpetrators of the riots in Brussels will be tried by means of a rapid legal procedure, is that based on Article 216c of the Code of Criminal Procedure? Secondly, there appear to be considerable differences between the judicial districts in the application of the so-called rapid procedure. In some districts, the procedure is never even used. However, the coalition agreement contains the ambition to also install rapid courtrooms in each judicial district. What is the reason why there are such large differences? Is it a matter of insufficient resources and insufficient capacity? What will you do to install a rapid courtroom in each arrondissement, which will also work effectively? Thirdly, do you intend to repair the immediate appearance procedure in accordance with the Arbitration Court's judgment, so that it can be used again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u18	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, it is true that there are marked differences between the provincial parquets in connection with the convening of minutes, as laid down in Article 216quater. There must be a uniform criminal policy. I'll continue to make an appeal to the College of Attorney General. I believe that the time-limit for the first examination is too long for at least 10 days to two months, as is the time-limit for the decision, which may also take two months. It could be shorter. There is no legal need for separate rooms to be furnished. It is the ordinary criminal courts, correctional or police, that are competent. In certain courts, sessions are organized specifically for this procedure, whether or not in addition to other cases to be tried. The organisation of the courts and the interpretation of the contenteux in the various chambers are the exclusive competence of the President of the court. I don't have any figures on the different courts. The immediate appearance procedure, which allows for provisional detention in accordance with Article 216quinquies of the Code of Criminal Procedure, introduced by Law of 28 March 2000, has not been applied since the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 22 March 2002, i.e. in response to the riots in Brussels. In fact, the court destroyed this type of rapid law, inter alia because of the too short-term, the too wide scope and defects in the procedure. I have almost prepared a draft law to repair that type of rapid law, taking into account, of course, the court's judgment. I'll bring it up to the government soon. The subpoena through police officers, prison directors and directors of community centres for juvenile offenders, as provided for in Article 645 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, is not a rapid judicial procedure. Rather, it gives those persons the legal power to serve documents in criminal matters in the same way as bailiffs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and please note your agreement that the deadlines must be shorter. The government agreement states that any legal proceedings will have to be terminated within the year. When we hear that the defendants can only avoid the Brussels riots in four months' time, while they would still be tried under the fast-track procedure, I do not think that this rapid-track procedure is really a quick-track procedure but rather a reasonably normal one. Maybe she's faster than usual, but she's not fast enough to speak of a quick-track procedure. I am therefore of course also in favour of shortening the time limits and returning to the original intention of the legislator, to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, where the legislator had set the time limits rather short and played briefly on the ball. I believe that it is very important for the credibility of the justice system in such incidents to be able to catch the rioters quickly and bring them to justice quickly. We will see what initiatives we can take, of course together with you, in order to do better in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u20	Mr President, if the Minister agrees to give me his written answer, I will put my question to him. Transform 22710 into a written question. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u21	Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u22	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, although this question is not a recent one, it still deserves an answer. The print media had reported a petition signed by more than 120 detainees in Saint-Gilles prison to prohibit the broadcast of a number of television channels in their cells. He had echoed in the Belgian press, but also foreign, an attempt to recruit jihad by the terrorist group Islamic State within the same prison in Saint-Gilles. According to this information, the petition in question quoted TV5 Qur'an as well as other Saudi channels and Al Jazeera and Al Arabia. You know, of course, how important it is to fight religious radicalization and proselytism in our prisons. You have also developed specific prison areas in some of our prisons. Do you confirm the broadcast of these television channels in prisoners' cells? Does the analysis of special services categorize these TV channels as Salafism broadcasters? Is there any such dissemination in prisons other than the Saint-Gilles prison? Who manages the accessibility of television channels in the cells of our prisons? According to what methodology is the selection made? If the finding is true, what action have you taken in this regard? Do you also confirm the attempt to recruit by the terrorist group Islamic State?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u23	Mr President, Mr Pivin, access to television channels in prisons requires an approved operator and the offer differs according to the operator. This offer is established at the level of the prison management, which takes as far as possible into account the wishes of the detainees but also has to deal with technological constraints. The proposed channels remain, of course, official channels, as they depend on official operators. In Saint-Gilles, the channels are made available via a satellite. Among the channels you quote, only Al Jazeera is included in this prison's offer. A few months ago, a Saudi channel, SaudiTV, which had appeared as a result of the reboot of the installation was removed a week later. The prison accepted the request of a few inmates who had requested the removal of the chain, as it feared that the nature of the programmes broadcast there would pose a risk to order and security in the institution. Moreover, the channel was not really compatible with the prison population of Saint-Gilles. The basic principle is that a prison does not broadcast channels other than those that are officially available on the market for everyone. As far as Saint-Gilles is concerned, the chains are checked at each reboot of the installation in order to better manage the phenomenon of the appearance of new chains for which the management has not given its consent. As for your question about recruitment by the Islamic State Group, I assume you are referring to a letter that has been submitted to management by a detainee on this subject. It turned out that this story was ultimately a bad joke.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u24	Mr President, I thank the Minister for this comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u25	Minister, you announced a few months ago that you would want to ask – but not a requirement – the Muslim Executive to report every imam present, even in a mosque on our territory. They'd be called traveling imams. You announced this decision following the attacks in Barcelona and so that the guardianship authority on cults could communicate more effectively with the State Security services. At present, control is quite limited, given that, if these persons already reside in the Schengen area, they arrive in our territory without being systematically and automatically reported, unless, of course, they stay more than three months and the rules in force for registration with the administration are complied with. Cooperation is therefore essential. At the same time, we know that the Executive does not always receive information about these traveling preachers. Mr Minister, could you please indicate whether you have already formalised your request to the Belgian Muslim Executive? Has he ever made contact with you? How do your services intend to receive these data and reports? Will it apply equally to recognized and non-recognized mosques?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u26	Mr.Pivin, in a letter dated 24 October 2017, I reminded the President of the representative body of Islamic worship in Belgium of everything that concerns the follow-up of imams, preachers and preachers active in recognized and unrecognized mosques. I am pleased to note that, since then, the Belgian Muslim Executive has formally invited all mosques and domes to transmit to it the names of imams and preachers who are not paid by the SPF Justice. The aim is to enable the Muslim Executive to ensure quality control. This body intends to list all the imams, preachers and preachers in office or to recruit. She's collecting the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u27	Minister, thank you. The work is therefore under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u28	Mr Minister, I understand that the court of first instance of East Flanders, department of Dendermonde, decided to postpone a large number of civil cases at the end of 2016, beginning of 2017. The reason given in the letter to the judges was that there would not have been enough judges to deal with those cases. Within the framework, only 28 out of 36 would have been completed, which is 77 %. In the meantime, several of these cases would have been re-established and even discussed. I think that this is a problem. For those seeking justice, this means that they lost several months, and in some cases even more than a year, and had serious delays in handling their case. They also remained in doubt for a long time about the time when their case could ultimately be called for. The case is also problematic for the court because it seems to show that it is faced with a workload which it cannot cope with in the absence of magistrates. As I said, the President of the Court states in the letter that he has 28 of the 36 magistrates. Minister, how many cases have been postponed in this way in the court concerned? What criteria have been used to determine which cases would be postponed in this way? From when did the court start to re-determine those cases? How many cases have been redefined since then, and how many of them have been discussed in the meantime? What criteria have been used to determine when and in what order these cases were re-established? Is it true that it was written to the defendants that if the date offered were not met by the parties and the case could therefore not be dealt with by the Chamber, for whatever reason, a postponement would be granted at the end of the seat of the Chamber in question at that time? Is it possible for lawyers who informed in good time that they would be prevented elsewhere on the proposed date of the hearing, which could always be done, to obtain a date other than the end of the hearing in question, in particular on a date which was already known or was otherwise due to lapse at that hearing? If not, why not? Is this method of delaying cases already applied by other courts, and if so, which ones? What initiatives have you already taken or do you intend to take in order to avoid repeating such practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u29	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, as a result of your question, I have received the following information from the relevant department of the Court of First Instance of East Flanders. The Dendermonde department was confronted at the end of December 2016 with the fact that several family judges were suddenly and at the same time nominated as and appointed councillor in the court of appeal, which had an impact on the functioning of their chamber. In the period from mid-November 2016 to the end of June 2017, 114 of the 600 cases were postponed. This corresponds to 19% of the cases concerned. Those Judges examined all their established cases before their departure, treated as far as possible until the end of December 2016 and sentenced until the end of January 2017. For the remaining cases until the end of June 2017, they indicated the degree of urgency and complexity for each case. Only the non-emergency cases were postponed indefinitely. Some of the urgent cases of these outgoing judges, such as divorces, ancestry, follow-up experts and replacement notary were taken over by the remaining family judges from January 2017, in the period 2017 to February 2017 by a special peer family chamber, in which a new colleague appointed on 1 February 2017 was trained in the period from March 2017 to the end of June 2017. As of 14 September 2017, all undetermined deferred cases were re-examined for the award of an advocacy date. The parties were informed two months before the new date of the plea so that they could organise themselves. This means that a new date has been set for all cases. More than 50% of the cases have been redefined today and 70% of them are under consideration. The degree of urgency was the first criterion to determine in which order these cases were re-established and then the principle of the oldest case first. Priority was given in some save cases, where special circumstances were justified. Like a lawyer who retired, a party for which the financial consequences could dramatically weigh in the absence of a decision or the poor health condition of a party. As a minister, I cannot, of course, comment on the way in which the court organises the pleading dates with the parties. The court merely states that it had organised itself in this way in the sole interest of those seeking legal aid in order to maximise the number of cases in which pleadings are necessary. After all, any case that could not be dealt with would have been at the expense of a case that could be dealt with. As far as is known, all parties have used the proposed date of advocacy, according to the information obtained from the court. The description of the court therefore shows that this has been an unfortunate coincidence, with a sudden and at the same time departure of several experienced judges in the same domain, rather than a structural problem. The court points out that the legal conditions do not allow a newly trained colleague to be immediately used as a single family judge. A minimum hearing experience of one year is required and the family judges must have the necessary IGO certificate in advance. Finally, I would like to point out that the rules of mobility in the judicial code allow the President of the Court of East Flanders to temporarily deploy judges from the other departments, Ghent or Oudenaarde, in Dendermonde, on the basis of the needs of the service. With the unavailability of a court and the need for a necessary expertise, the situation in Dendermonde clearly met the criteria of service needs set out in the Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. Your answer to my last questions is not so clear. It was announced that, if a new date is offered which does not suit the lawyers because they have to plead other cases, often in another court, they would then be given an advocacy date at the very end of the current hearing role. You're gonna have to take the place of the judge. A date has been set, but he is informed that his case will be postponed indefinitely. A new date will then be set, but it will not be possible for his lawyers to argue, so that they will end up at the end of the list. That's not a good signal. Apparently, the President of the Court tells you that all offered dates were accepted or were possible for the lawyers, but according to my information that was not the case and that data was also offered that did not succeed, which meant that people were pushed backwards. It was also asked whether, if matters were to be dropped on closer days of sitting, their case could not be dealt with on those dates. So there was a painful situation in Dendermonde and I hope that will not happen again. The cause is also clear: if one can only use 28 of the 36 magistrates, then it happens that rooms have to be closed. It will therefore have to be much more proactive to start early procedures for the replacement of magistrates. I know they take a long time, but you do have some authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u31	I have told you clearly that mobility can also help in such matters. The nine-month periods of the Supreme Court of Justice are almost constitutionally fixed. I'm doing the best I can for more speed, but it's a house of cards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u32	When a magistrate retires, one knows that in advance and one can also start the procedure in good time. If one waits until he actually retires and if one still has to wait for the next publication train, then one loses time. This was not the case here, but mobility was apparently also a problem, because the other courts within the same province also had problems. I hope it doesn't happen again. If magistrates are to disappear, we must do everything we can to replace them in good time. I think this is the most important lesson we can draw from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u33	Mr President, Minister, here is a brief question about the transition houses, which we discussed when discussing the policy paper. During this meeting you announced that there will be transition houses with a total of 100 places. It is not therefore a question of small-scale projects in which, by the end of their sentence, certain prisoners will be given the opportunity to spend the last part of it in a transition home. Here the focus is on the imminent integration of the inmate. In the introductory presentation on your policy paper, you spoke of 50 places in Ruislede and 50 in Marneffe, as part of a pilot project. However, these places were previously established as an extension of the open detention capacity. That cannot be the 100 planned places for the transition homes at the same time. Hence a few specific questions. Firstly, where is the opening of the 2 or 3 transition homes with a total of 100 places, as a pilot project? Secondly, is it true that these are not the 100 places in Ruislede and Marneffe because they were provided as open detention capacity? I'd like some clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u34	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, the Master Plan III as approved by the government in November 2016 effectively provides for a differentiation of penitentiary sentences. Where previous master plans have mainly sought to raise the prison capacity of establishments with a higher level of safety, it is then intended to provide facilities of a lower level of security. Many studies show that a significant proportion of detainees do not impose special or serious security requirements. The master plan III provides for three variants of penitentiary capacity that meet this care. First of all, the new prisons in Leopoldsburg and in Vresse-sur-Semois will be a combination of institutions with what is called medium and low security in the jargon. Both institutions will have a capacity of about 312 places. A second initiative concerns the creation of additional open capacity on existing sites. For Flanders this will be at the penitentiary agricultural centre in Ruiselede. On the Walloon side, an open facility will be created alongside the existing closed prison in Jamioulx. These are 50 places each time. With regard to the transition houses which are still a further gradation of low safety capacity, with the additional characteristics of small scale and proximity to the social fabric, the decision of the Council of Ministers means that pilot projects of some 15 places will be created in the first instance. Thereafter, if a positive evaluation is carried out after a period of about one year, additional capacity may be provided to reach 100 places. The legal basis for placing convicts in a transition house, which essentially involves extramural prison capacity, will shortly be submitted to the Justice Commission. Following Parliament's approval, the implementing decision which will determine the standards to be met by a transition home can then be implemented and a call may be published for candidate organisations wishing to benefit from such a facility. It is my practice to be able to start pilot projects in the spring of 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u35	Minister, it is not intended that Ruiselede and Jamioulx should be included in the project of the transition houses, but in the open capacity project. You know that we support the idea of transition homes. We will continue to encourage you to do so. We hope that this legal basis will be there as soon as possible so that the pilot projects can be launched.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u36	Mr President, Minister, we recently learned that the staff of the Mons courthouse had decided to contribute to the purchase of a defibrillator following the tragic death of Bernard Thomas last May. In fact, at that time, the courthouse did not have this equipment, which is mandatory in public places. At the end of this event, a request was made to the FPS Justice, but the necessary funds would not have been released. Mr. Minister, 10,000 people are affected each year by cardiovascular arrest. Courthouses are public places where stress is particularly important. What do you think of the initiative taken by the staff of the courthouse to finance a defibrillator himself? For what reasons, has the same palace not received financial aid to regularize its situation? The cost of such equipment varies between 2,000 and 2,500 euros, excluding maintenance. Is it a real budgetary constraint? Specifically, are all Belgian courts equipped with such equipment? Overall, what about public buildings?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Galant, we could not analyse the situation in Mons independently of the situation in the rest of the country. In this respect, I refer you to the previous replies I have already given on this subject in this committee. However, being aware of the usefulness of these devices, my services are studying the possibility of a partnership with an ASBL for co-financing, which would have a positive effect on the Justice budget, which could offer the possibility of installing DEA devices in some of our buildings in the medium term. Indeed, the analysis has shown that this project is feasible, although the negotiations have been longer than originally planned. The dossier will be submitted shortly for agreement to the Joint Management Committee of the SPF Justice, then to the Finance Inspectorate before going further in its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u38	Questions Nos 22586, 22604, 22628 and 22630 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u39	Mr President, Minister, on Monday 11 December last you met, as you do regularly, the families of the victims of the Brabant killings in your office, with the two judges in charge of the case, Mr. de la Serna and Mr. De Valkeneer, as well as the investigating judge in charge of the investigation, Mrs Michel. Following the revelations of last October and the exchange we had in the Justice Committee, the families expected much from this meeting to inform them of the latest progress of the investigation. As a reminder, the revelations concerned the former First Marshal of the Christiaan Bonkoffsky house, a gendarme at the Alost Brigade, who allegedly confessed to his brother, on his deathbed, to be the Giant of the Brabant killers gang. In addition, the man belonged in the early 1980s to the Diane group, the elite unit of the gendarmerie, which had often been pointed out at the time of the investigation of the Brabant killings in the late 1980s. Minister, I would therefore like to take stock with you. Did you and the investigators confirm that Mr. Bonkoffsky was involved in the killings? Are recent revelations supported by the facts? Did Mr. Bonkoffsky's entourage confirm or invalidate the confession made to his brother on his deathbed? The attorney general of the Serna, speaking of the network around Christiaan Bonkoffksy, said: "There are known names, already in the file, and also other names". Are these new names also linked to the former gendarmerie? The ex-gendarmes that often returned to the file, Madani Bouhouche and Robert Beijer, who had also been convicted of crimes at the same time, were also cited. With regard to the call for witnesses, there are now 600 testimonies. According to Attorney General De Valkeneer, 600 testimonies were received. A quarter of them would have been considered fanciful, while the others would deserve to be examined in more detail, it emerged from the meeting. In any case, that is what the press has reported. The first task of the Investigation Unit is to verify whether these testimonies are not already known or whether they should be the subject of additional investigative duties. Are the three-quarters of the 600 admissible testimonies systematically heard by the investigators? Are they converging towards the track of the ex-gendarmerie? Have additional investigative duties been carried out on this basis? Then you made a commitment to the families to propose to Parliament the extension of one of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorism, in this case to allow victims of the Brabant Killers to be treated as victims of terrorism and thus to benefit from free legal aid. Does that mean that this mechanism will be exactly the same as that put in place for victims of terrorism as recently adopted by the House? How long do you intend to submit these texts to Parliament? The daughter of one of the killers' victims, Patricia Finné, also stated that she had been offered a copy of the case in computer format for the sum of 1,400 euros. It intrigued me to discover this information in the press. Is it correct? If so, would it not be fairer and, above all, respectful to make the digital file available to families free of charge? This seems to us to be the least of all things. Finally, I would also like to take this opportunity to comment on the statements made by Me Jef Vermassen concerning the famous "gold pipe" which he would have received and which he commented extensively in the press last October. As a reminder, after his meeting with the magistrates and investigators in Charleroi on the case of the killings, Prosecutor De Valkeneer stated that the interview with the lawyer had gone well, but that the lawyer had not taught them more than what was reported in the media. As a reminder, a former policeman from Alost and a policeman told Mr. Vermassen that before the killing of Alost on 9 November 1985 they were reportedly ordered not to be in the parking lot of the Delhaize and that they could be "in the vicinity, but not in the parking lot". "Information of this kind," says Mr. From Valkeneer, "This is not the first time we have received it, and not only for the killing of Alost (...) There is indeed a questioning". Elders claim that they have been asked to move to a particular location, which has opened the way for killers. "We're looking at this information seriously. The difficulty is to assess intent, i.e. to determine whether the purpose was to deliberately harm the interception of the perpetrators or whether such orders were given in a logic of command and intervention that can be explained". I therefore wanted to know whether the officials responsible for the gendarmerie at the time were interrogated or re-examined today on the basis of the evidence revealed by Mr. Vermassen and whether the person or the command who gave the order not to be in the parking lot of the Delhaize d'Alost on 9 November 1985 could be traced. And in general, I would have wanted to know – because Mr.Vermassen speaks extensively in the press, both French-speaking and Dutch-speaking – whether an active collaboration is organized in a structural way with this lawyer? Is the same with the other lawyers of the victims? How are these seemingly new elements, but of which we realize that they are not so much, constructive because that is what matters here? Can they lead to a structural and concrete advance in the investigation? If not, we can wonder why we should do all this media movement. And that will be my last question about the meeting you had last week. I also had a second question that I asked in the meantime, if that's all right with you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u41	It deals with another aspect, let's say another angle of attack of the history of this dossier with very complex ramifications, but on a specific point. On the sidelines of the hypothesis of ex-gendarmerie, theories around the far right, other serious hypotheses were considered during the 30 years of investigation, and it is also one of the general conclusions of the survey bis which (I quote) "recommends to scrutinize the criminal investigation into the gangs of criminals in central Belgium during the first half of the 1980s". We must consider the investigations of the Borains, De Staerke, Haemers and others, and the parliamentary commissioners at the time point out: "It is not excluded that a systematic and coordinated comparative study of these investigations will bring new ideas about the Brabant Killers." This different angle of attack will be applied, in fact, starting in 2002, under the impetus of Judge Jean-Claude Lacroix, then head of the investigation in Charleroi, and he called on various experts: French specialists in psychology, analysts of the Sûreté du Québec and, subsequently, in 2007, the Belgian expert, Danièle Zucker, doctor of psychology and expert in analysis of criminal behaviour. In 2010, she produced, at the request of the judge, a synthesis report representing just over two years of work on the first wave of the Brabant Killings. In this report, which has been widely relayed by the press of the time and which has returned, in recent weeks, in certain media, we describe in fact very precisely a group of psychopath authors without any connection between them, opportunists, driven by greed. The report also includes portraits-robots, analyses that refer to characters, contexts, geographical areas, which are therefore not at all related to theories related to the gendarmerie or to the apparatus of the State, or all that relates to the far right, but rather to circles and teams of robbers of certain family clans desocialized in Wallonia and Brussels. The conclusions of Mrs Zucker's report led to several potential suspects. They also led to additional investigative duties as well as to send a rogatory commission to Switzerland, as a suspect was identified there in the spring of 2009. Therefore, Danièle Zucker and Lionel Ruth, at the time the head of the investigation cell on the killings of the Brabant, accompanied by a chief inspector, had twice visited Switzerland where they had conducted an interrogation of this person via rogatory commission. But later, this track, which at some point seemed promising, was abandoned by Attorney General De Valkeneer and the investigating judge, Martine Michel. So here's what I wanted to ask you about this other angle of attack on the file. Why have we not been at the end of these investigations, in order to validate or reject the analyses and conclusions of the expert, Danièle Zucker? Why have not all the investigative duties, which had been specified in his report, been carried out, if any, to reject this option and to be clear about the analyses she had carried out? Finally, as you have just expanded the investigation unit for the Brabant Killers, is it considering reworking on the basis of the expert Zucker's report? If this is not the case, why is this option now definitively rejected?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u42	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, the item on the committee's agenda has settled the proceedings concerning the provision of information on the files of the Brabant Killers. In mid-January, I will meet again with the Public Prosecutor's Office for a progress report. I will give the committee further details in this regard at the end of January. The victims were indeed gathered in Brussels on Monday 11 December for an information session and consultation with the investigating judge, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the investigators, some experts from the National Unit for Victims of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, the services for the reception of victims of Charleroi and Termonde, and the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence. I welcomed these people, presented an introduction and discussed the policy on the position of victim and civil party. During the discussion of the criminal investigation, I was not present. As in the past, the information that I share with you comes from the general prosecutors' offices in Liège and Mons. The lead on former Constable Christiaan Bonkoffsky is confirmed. The information has not changed. She's being further investigated. It is not yet possible to respond to the request to provide additional names or new elements related to the persons already mentioned because of the secrecy of the investigation and the danger of collusion, the harmful consequences this would have for the conduct of the investigation and the tactics of the investigation. The numerous leads are analysed in depth by the investigators. Depending on the content and the fact that some leads are anonymous, people are interviewed and new acts of investigation are laid down. Some leads are directed at former gendarmes. With regard to the position of the victims, I stated at the meeting on 11 December that the victims who do not have the status of a civil party or aggrieved persons are still in a position to appear before the court. Indeed, the investigation is still under way. I have also indicated that, given the particular nature of these offences, I will examine the legal possibilities in order to respond to the interests of the victims. I will submit a proposal to Parliament in early 2018. The adaptation of the Act of 1 August 1985 is a practical option. Current regulations provide that a copy of the file on computer media is paid at one amount per copy. In so far as it is a large file, 26 cabinets, it is a package that is applied, i.e. 1,450 euros. At this point, a solution must be found. The Attorney General confirms to me that the collaboration with Mr. Vermassen is working well. As a lawyer for one of the victims and his celebrity, he receives a lot of information and forwards it directly to the investigating authorities. With regard to the points raised in the Zucker report, for the answers, I quote again the PGs: "As far as the person to be heard in Switzerland is concerned, the investigating judge has gone to the end of the investigations. The person was heard in Switzerland and did not provide any concrete evidence to advance the investigation. Mrs Zucker made an initial profiling report for the 1982 and 1983 killings, but this report did not prove sufficiently serious, rigorous and precise so that it was decided not to continue the experiment for the 1985 killings. This type of report is far less comprehensive and useful than a true criminal analysis report, as some federal police analysts can do."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I also thank the investigative cell and the magistrates, whose voice you are making, which is quite normal. As you say, following the order of business earlier, a meeting will be held in mid-January. It would be interesting to be able to do that again. I therefore take note of your answers, hoping for real progress in this area and above all to be able to meet the expectations of the families.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u44	Question No 22693 by Mr Flahaux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u45	Mr President, Minister, following my question of 13 December concerning the breakdown of the concession of the Great Mosque in Brussels, you announced that a first formal consultation should take place this Monday between your cabinet and the offices of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister. What have been the results of this consultation? Has a specific date been set for notification of the termination of this concession agreement? In what way, on what basis and on what grounds? How is all this going to happen? How will the period, if any, that would open if you now notify this break-up be used to appeal to a new entity? How will you choose the new entity? Will you rely on the criteria of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry? With whom and how will you start discussions? What will be the role of the Belgian Muslim Executive (EMB) and other possible entities? What other possible topics have been discussed during this consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u46	Mr Dallemagne, yesterday a meeting was held between the cabinets on the follow-up to be given to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the Great Mosque in Brussels. The meeting was limited to a round-table discussion on stopping emphyteosis, signing a new lease, financing the new entity and the need to seek recognition of the new entity. Concrete conclusions could not yet be drawn on the timing, the notification of termination and the possible role of the EMB. A follow-up meeting will therefore be held in early January. It goes without saying that everyone is aware of the need to resolve this issue quickly and to answer questions and of the opportunity for the Muslim community in Belgium to take responsibility for this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u47	Minister, I'm still worried. Two months have elapsed since the end of the commission of inquiry. That was a very clear recommendation. I do not understand that it takes so long to notify this breach of the concession agreement. I'm worried. I ask you to press ahead with this matter. I see the Saudis' maneuvers to ensure that the committee of inquiry's recommendation is not met. I hope the government will not be sensitive to it. Football matches are organized at great expense; both are invited. I really ask that the government stick to this recommendation. This is an essential message to the Muslim community in Belgium. We know how much Saudi Arabia manipulated and instrumentalized this community through its very harmful influence and opaque funding at the Great Mosque in Brussels. I ask you, in this matter, to act quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u48	Mr. President, Minister, you said that it was difficult to count radicalized prisoners in prisons. According to my information, at the end of 2016, about 300 prisoners had become radicalised and 115 were incarcerated in specialized sections. State Security appeared to consider that 450 detainees had a radicalization profile in Belgium. Minister, are you in possession of the figures for people who are now radicalised in Belgium? Moreover, you are not without the fact that Tarik Jadaoun, of whom we have been talking a lot lately, radicalised during his stay at the prison in Liège. Could you tell me how many of the radicalized prisoners have become radicalized in prison? Do we have any idea of this worrying phenomenon? Have any studies been conducted in this regard? Does this phenomenon still exist to date? What are the modes of radicalization? If so, what lessons have been learned from this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to provide the precise number of radicalised people in Belgium. However, it is possible to give the number of persons included in the common database on foreign and homegrown terror fighters and propagandists of hatred for common monitoring by the various services. There are 736 people. With regard to prisons, 186 persons were currently in pre-trial detention or were serving sentences for terrorism. In addition, 46 detainees are currently identified because they are believed to pose a serious risk to the radicalization of other detainees. Approximately 200 other detainees are at increased risk of radical Islam. These detainees are all closely monitored. They are responsible for the monitoring of prisoners, the State Security and the Directorate-General for Prisons (DG EPI), which has set up a central coordination unit for Extremism in support of prison directorates. Information is exchanged daily between the two services and the police, the intelligence and security services and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The strategic coordination between departments on the issue of radicalization in prisons takes place within the framework of the Prisons working group provided for in the Radicalism Plan. In the past, VSSE has transmitted a series of analyses of radicalization in some prisons. Radicalization is a process that is evolving and should not, of course, be attributed to a problem that would arise only within prisons. The problem in Belgian prisons is complex, multifaceted and concerns all categories of prisoners. DG PPE notes that detention is generally not the cause of radicalisation, but is indeed an intensifying factor, a catalyst in the radicalisation process that has already begun outside prisons, in a wider societal context. Within the framework of the Federal Scientific Policy Bill (BELSPO), for which the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminalology (INCC) will conduct a study on the problem of radicalisation, DG EPI is closely associated. As a component of this project, NCIC is responsible for conducting a study of the criminal history of persons qualified as radicalized in the broad sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u50	Minister, thank you for this information. You were very fast, so I would like to have a hard copy of the numbers I didn't notice on the flight. I encourage you to continue these studies on radicalization in prison. We talked about it in the Attentats Committee of Inquiry. It would be interesting to have more precise data on the proportion of prisoners who were radicalizing and who continued to do so in prison. I often hear about detainees or terrorists who have radicalized after they went to prison. This phenomenon is worrying and it deserves more precise data. I hear studies are under way, and I will carefully follow the results of this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u51	Minister, my question concerns, but not only, the case of Tarik Jadaoun. Asked about the terrorist's willingness to be transferred to Belgium and to cooperate with our security services, the Prime Minister said that he refused to negotiate with Belgian terrorists in Iraq or Syria, even when they intended to work with Belgium to deliver information. I understand we're not negotiating with terrorists. "There is no space for these people in our society," he said. Minister, in spite of everything, there are a few questions. I would have liked to know how many foreign terror fighters are being held in Iraq and asked for their transfer to Belgium for trial. Are they aware of their place of imprisonment and the charges against them? Have any of them been convicted in Iraq? If so, what is it? How many are at risk of the death penalty? Have our intelligence services been in contact with them? I heard that was the case for Tarik Jadaoun. Have we attempted to obtain as much information as possible about what these detainees know? It seems to me extremely important that we know the reasons why they were there, the identity of those who recruited them and the way in which such recruitment was financed. What danger do these recruitment channels still pose to our security? The victims obviously deserve the necessary clarity on the attacks. At the same time, we must make every effort to ensure that these networks are effectively combated. My questions therefore concern both justice and intelligence. For the first part, I can understand that Iraqi justice is allowed to act. Nevertheless, we must pay attention to the call of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights for a fair trial. It is in our interest not to be accused of not considering how such justice is exercised. At both the individual and the political level, it is important not to be insistent about the way Iraqi justice is exercised, as I mentioned earlier, about the information we can get from these detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u52	Mr Dallemagne, with regard to your questions on intelligence services, I would like to point out that it is a common practice in the intelligence sector not to report on operational cases. It goes without saying that all Belgian services are mobilised with regard to the monitoring of foreign terror fighters and that cooperation with foreign partners is intense. It is not possible to say more in response to a parliamentary question on intelligence services. As far as judicial proceedings are concerned, there is no formal request from foreign terrorists to be tried in Belgium for the acts prosecuted by the Iraqi authorities. The possible interventions of certain Belgian foreign terrorists in the press have no impact on the judicial procedure. A transfer of the Iraqi procedure now seems difficult to imagine, especially since Belgian foreign terrorists are the subject of an international arrest warrant, including those detained in Iraqi prisons. There is no extradition treaty with Iraq. Nor do I have any information about the Belgian foreign terror fighters who are already being convicted in Iraq. Enforcement of the sentence in Belgium is therefore not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u53	Thank you, Minister. I understand you're not giving details. What I want to know is whether there is a systematic follow-up of each of these detainees, to ensure that our services have as much information and information as possible about what brought them there, the facts they have committed and the individuals who could continue to be dangerous to the security of our territory and who could be connected with them. I think Parliament can have such information. It doesn't put anyone in danger. What do you think, Minister? I'm not asking for state secrets to be revealed. I am simply asking if we have been able to obtain information from them. I regret that we do not have general information that would not betray any of the procedures under way. Furthermore, on the issue of justice, you know that I have always been extremely firm in terms of terrorism. However, I believe that Belgium should nevertheless be attentive to the way justice is exercised in Iraq, both for reasons related to our principles, international law and also for political reasons. We must not underestimate the fact that, if there are massive hangings - as we see today - after sloppy trials of Belgian nationals, this would not be a good thing for Belgium either in terms of law or in terms of politics. I ask you to be attentive and possibly send such messages to the Iraqi authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u54	According to a press article in December, the data of around 100,000 Belgian drivers and customers of Uber were included in the information hacked in October 2016. As many as 57 million users of California's start-up would be affected by this huge leak. Minister, have you heard of this case? Have you taken any action? Have the persons concerned in Belgium been informed that their personal data have been hacked? What remedies do they have? Has the Belgian State participated closely or by far in the investigation of these facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u55	Mr Kir, in Uber's official statement, there are no Belgian customers but only 600 American customers. The Public Prosecutor's Office has informed me that the information from La Libre's article of 13 December 2017 to which you refer cannot be confirmed. According to its official statements, Uber is currently trying to notify the customers concerned. Meanwhile, Uber allows its customers to verify for themselves whether their data has been hacked by hackers through a link contained in the official message. Neither the Federal Computer Crime Unit nor the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office nor the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office have any further information in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u56	Minister, if the information has not been confirmed, the incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u57	Mr President, Minister, a number of recent newspapers have reported that Mr Fourny, Member of Parliament for Neufchâteau in the province of Luxembourg, is the subject of charges of unlawful interest taking. Mr. Fourny is not only a political agent, but also a lawyer. The intercommunal hospital Vivalia, located in the province of Luxembourg, instructs the judicial officer Bernard Graulich to recover the unpaid sums. Mr. Dimitri Fourny and his firm are regularly called upon to plead cases before the courts. In this way, the parliamentarian would take advantage of his situation to support his cabinet. In the Walloon Region, Ms Valérie De Bue, Minister of Local Authorities, states that "there are no grievances against the Member of Parliament who would justify sanctions at the departure of the local authorities". However, a report by the administration commissioned by its predecessor, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, did not exclude any criminal proceedings against the deputy-bourgmester. Ms. De Bue asked to investigate more about how bailiffs are appointed at Vivalia to recover claims from patients. Minister, in accordance with the separation of powers and the secrecy of any information or judicial investigation, on the basis of the public elements relating to this case, has judicial information been initiated? If not, do you intend to use your right of positive injunction to do so? If so, what prosecutor's office has this information been entrusted to? What can you tell us about the status of this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u58	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, as you know, I cannot provide you with more information on the current instructions than the Attorney General has given me on this matter. In response to your question, the Attorney General of Liège replied: "The Public Prosecutor's Office has become aware of the existence of suspicions of events that may lead to conflicts of interest. The territorially competent Public Prosecutor's Office carries out conventional checks. The secrecy to which judges are bound and respect for the presumption of innocence require that they do not go beyond this information."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u59	Thank you, Minister. I take note of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u60	Minister, we had already had an opportunity to discuss the issue of gambling. As part of the "Modernisation of civil law and economic law" component of the draft general budget for 2018, there was also talk of gambling. In your policy note, you also announce the development of a first set of laws and regulations designed to better protect players. The aim of this package would be to limit the advertising of gambling, introduce game moderators, subject slot machines in cafes to a stricter framework, frame virtual bets, reduce the number of betting agencies and increase control by giving municipalities an important role in setting up betting agencies and operating gaming machines in cafes. Therefore, of course, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the status of the procedure for adopting these measures? Have there been any consultations with representatives of the municipalities, in particular? If so, what is the content of these discussions? Do you plan to cooperate at European level in order to deter some players denying their addiction to the game and often excluded at the request of third parties from going to play abroad? What are the ways in which prevention campaigns and the follow-up of players who have developed an addiction to gambling are implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u61	Mr President, Mr Kir, the regulatory texts are currently being notified to the European Commission, which has the opportunity to react until the beginning of January 2018. Subsequently, the Council of State will have before it for its opinion and the parliamentary debate will follow. Since the gambling committee is composed of representatives of six ministers, the ministers of public health, finance, the economy, the interior and the National Lottery are also involved. For their part, consultation will be carried out with the Regions. Contacts have already been made with the association of Flemish municipalities. The Games of Chance Commission also invited their Francophone counterparts to a symposium at which they had the opportunity to speak. We will examine the possibilities at European level to also exclude Belgian players with addiction abroad. Such a system already exists in a more restricted way in our neighbours and is offered via the website of the gambling commission. I would like to add that our country offers the highest, widest and most stringent level of player protection. Nearly 350,000 people are currently excluded. The Communities are competent for helping people and, therefore, also for players with addiction. The current responsible for this sector, the gambling commission, has legally assumed its responsibilities. For example, a prevention campaign involving CPAS, the Journal du médecin, and a prevention film entitled Bluff have been put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u62	Minister, thank you. I will, of course, take the time to reread your answer, which seems complete to me. The text will arrive - if I understand correctly - with a little delay, in the first half of 2018 and the responsibility is collegial. There are other colleagues who bear responsibility with you. And then there is the consultation with the Regions which is also indispensable. We will have the opportunity to return in the course of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u63	Mr President, Minister, on your proposal, on 8 December last the Council of Ministers approved a draft royal decree granting financial assistance to cities and municipalities for the recruitment of personnel to accompany judicial measures for 2017. Minister, could you please provide us with more details about this draft royal decree, particularly as regards its implementation, the amount of the budget allocated and the timing of its implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u64	Mr President, Mr Kir, let me take up the administrative chronology of this draft royal decree before detailing the distribution of financial assistance by beneficiary. The draft Royal Decree on the granting of financial assistance to municipalities for the recruitment of staff responsible for accompanying judicial measures, known as the "Global Plan", was the subject of a favourable opinion by the Finance Inspectorate on 5 October 2017, an agreement by the Minister for the Budget on 30 November 2017, and an agreement by the Council of Ministers on 8 December 2017. There is a total allocation of EUR 9,111,926.88. Details of the financial distribution could be provided in writing. Of course, in accordance with the regulations, an advance of 80% of this allowance will be paid. The balance will be paid annually in the following year, after careful control of the coins introduced by the organisation. In the event of non-compliance with one or more provisions of the Convention, the annual intervention may be reduced and, where appropriate, partially or fully recovered. The 80% payment will take place in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u65	Minister, how many municipalities are currently affected by the scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u66	If you don't mind, I'll send you an e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u67	All right. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic789x.u68	Questions No 22710 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, No 22713 by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot and No 22572 by Mr Gilles Foret are transformed into written questions. Question No 22714 by Mrs Sophie De Wit is postponed. In the absence of other parliamentarians who are not excused, we will close our proceedings.
