ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u1	Since the 1970s, the Netherlands has been carrying out standardized measurements very regularly in order to determine the effectiveness of penalties and alternative measures. In this way we try to measure the repetition. They also study the typical criminal career and the profile of perpetrators. The repeat monitor has become an important instrument in criminal policy in the Netherlands. The careful preservation and analysis of these statistics has enabled policy to be adjusted in a targeted way. Those results may also be there today, and we may also be a little jealous of them. For several years in a row, the recidivism in the Netherlands has fallen, both among adults and among minors. The difference with Belgium could not be greater. That is not so much your fault, of course, but history also plays a role in this. Until 2011, no figures of recurrence were even recorded. Yet they have always taught me that measuring is knowing. What are the recurrent figures in Belgium for recent years? Is there a positive evolution? What crime rates are highest in Belgium? Do you consider the creation of such an objective repeat monitor according to the Dutch example? Are you considering making an authority competent for the collection of all the figures on relapse and measuring the effectiveness of criminal policy? Minister, I believe that only on the basis of this data will a proper and efficient criminal policy be possible. I am therefore very interested in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u2	The entry into service of an effective repeat monitor is a wish I, as Minister of Justice responsible for criminal policy, have expressed. After all, the recidivism engine would allow better monitoring and measurement of the effectiveness of the criminal response to misbehaviour. As such an instrument does not exist so far, I cannot answer your first two questions. However, I can refer you to the recent study by the NICC in early 2015 on the general recidivism. The study was too limited to determine an evolution over the years, as it was based on the convicted persons in one specific reference year. However, the study showed the potential of a repeat monitor as a policy instrument. The large project was provisionally blocked due to budgetary constraints. However, the NICC does carry out more specific repeat investigations into certain partial phenomena, such as the impact of a zero tolerance policy on repeated crime in partner violence. There is also an ongoing repeat investigation into sexual offenders and a criminal career of persons considered radicalised. With the experience already gained by the NICC in the field of repeat investigations, I believe that this body is best placed to develop such a monitoring tool in the long term. However, a repeat monitor also requires the much-needed source data. The further computerisation and the roll-out of the same computer system for all prosecutors, correctional courts and courts, integrating the data on convictions, are therefore crucial. It is a step-by-step process that we give priority to, both for policy and operational reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u3	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is not just your dream, it is also mine for a long time, because I have asked your predecessors this question on several occasions. I cannot understand why the figures cannot be kept up to date. In this way, you undermine your own policies for one piece, because figures can be directing. I hope that by means of computerization, which should have been there for a long time, we will be able to keep up with the figures. It can't be that hard. The data is there, because they are always written down somewhere on an information bulletin. Most of the time, pvs are made up. So there's the data. They just need to be brought together once and for all, so that we can map things out and actually do something with them, not just for the parts you quote, but much wider. That is the only way to be able to react appropriately and to reduce the recurrence by your policies. That is, of course, the intention. So I think we should be doing more than just dreaming and wishing. We must urgently try to get these things going.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u4	The trend is towards the proliferation of law enforcement apparatus. We've all seen it. Many citizens see it as a far cry from road safety objectives. Radar is a tool for preventing and combating speeding. In some areas of the country, some offenders sometimes escape punishment because prosecutors are overcrowded and cannot deal with everything. For example, it would appear that excess speeds below 149 km/h, the use of gsm at the wheel and the non-wearing of seat belts for adults are not always pursued. Minister, can you give us more information on the processing figures for prosecution cases? What are the criteria not to prosecute when radars will continue to proliferate, when criminal prosecution services are already overstretched and will be even more so? What measures are envisaged in consultation with your colleague from the Interior to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u5	The prosecution policy of the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office, in particular with regard to traffic offences, was the front page of the press last week. The Sudpress Group's newspapers claimed that certain offences were no longer prosecuted, such as speeding below 149 km/h, non-adults wearing seatbelts, or using gsm while driving. These statements were quickly refuted by the Prosecutor of the King of Liège, who acknowledges, however, that the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office is working, together with the police areas within its jurisdiction, with a view to a so-called "intelligent" verbalization: it is a matter of verbalizing small offences less to concentrate on the most important ones, "to favour qualitative rather than quantitative", I quote, "while guaranteeing a useful follow-up to any infringement". The Prosecutor of the King of Liège regrets that our prosecutors do not have a fully automated procedure, as it seems to be the case with our Dutch neighbours, Maastricht among others, or an organisation that allows magistrates to devote themselves to the real priorities as in Paris. In response to a parliamentary question I asked you on 15 June last, you indicated that a project aimed at greater automation and optimisation of the treatment of driving offences was being developed. You said at that time that "this project has, among other things, the aim of eliminating quota practices. The bet is to be able to guarantee maximum efficiency and avoid a sense of impunity in the head of citizens." What is currently the prosecution policy of our country's public prosecutor's offices with regard to driving offences? Where has the "smart" quota and verbalization system been put in place? What are the results of this system if it is implemented? Can you give us more information on the development of the project aimed at greater automation and optimisation of the treatment of driving offences, which you announced last June? What is the status of the development of this project? Do the good practices of our neighbouring countries serve as an inspiration for your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u6	With regard to the issue of the policy of prosecution of public prosecutors in the field of taxiing, it appears that with regard to the speed mentioned in the first place in Mr Goffin's question, the prosecutor's policy is regulated by COL No. 11/2006, which sets out a uniform policy on the control, detection, investigation and direction of prosecution of offences. In particular, it provides that where the apparatus is intended to operate as fixed equipment on the public road, in the absence of qualified agents, its location and the circumstances of its use shall be determined by consultation organised by the competent judicial, administrative and police authorities, including road managers. This consultation is essential in order to establish the most effective means of control in terms of timing, duration, frequency, traffic density, traffic flow, locations and police and other actors. It is also essential, pending the availability of additional staff and technical resources. When the Prosecutor of the King of Liège refers to a qualitative approach, it is a policy of finding, searching and prosecuting speed offences in a concerted and effective manner, as defined in COL No. 11/2006. For non-speed violations, Mr. Goffin's question as formulated could give the impression that quotas would be established indiscriminately for all types of driving offences. In particular, it is the speed controls that cause a significant influx of minutes to the police prosecutor's offices, and it is in this respect that the consultations must take place, in accordance with COL No. 11/2006. As part of the project to automate and optimize the treatment of driving offences, a new platform for managing the collection of fines will be set up and will operate as follows. The police will identify the offence and forward the data to the FPS Justice electronically. The FPS Justice computer system, Mach, will order the printing and sending in the same mail, sent on behalf of the police, of a copy of the minutes or, for foreign European offenders, of the notification letter and the immediate collection letter. The new platform for managing traffic violations will automatically process payments. In the event of incorrect non-payment or payment, the platform shall order, in accordance with the rules laid down by the King's Prosecutor and/or the College of Attorneys General, the printing and sending of a reminder and, if necessary, a proposal for a transaction and a payment order, which shall be sent by judicial means. Depending on the road safety policy, as determined by the King's Prosecutor and/or the College of Attorneys General, certain offences or profiles of repeat offenders could be directly quoted. The European national infringer will be able to pay his fine via transfer or via a website. In case of administrative questions, the European national infringer may apply to a call centre or in writing to a back office. This will reduce the administrative workload of police and justice. All data will be transferred from the platform to Mach, while all transmitted documents will be scanned and also made available in Mach. Like the current system, the new platform for the treatment of driving offences will also be managed by bpost under the management contract between the Belgian State and bpost. The Justice FPS and the various stakeholders started working at the end of 2016 on the detailed requirements for the development of the new platform. This phase of analysis and study is almost complete, and we plan, after final validation, to start concrete ICT developments. With regard to the practices of foreign prosecutors, I observe that the automated payment order is based on the laws of our French and Dutch neighbours. With regard to the question of the processing figures for prosecution cases, I can inform you that these could be extracted by the ICT management department of the SPF Justice, but this will be a purely technical consultation of the operational data bank of the Mach computer system of the police prosecution offices. The figures cannot therefore be contextualised or validated by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Their reliability is therefore not assured. Answering the question about the criteria used by police prosecutors to avoid prosecution would require a systematic questioning of police prosecutors. It is impossible to respond within such a short period of time, which you will understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u7	Minister, thank you for your very clear and complete answers. However, we must not lose sight of the fact that, in terms of road safety, this proliferation of radars must have an impact in order to counter speed and reduce the number of fatalities. Unfortunately, this is not the case. On the other hand, there is not a real decrease in the number of road victims, even if it is a success in terms of revenues. It's a little paradoxical.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u8	For my part, I welcome the progress made in the implementation of this platform, which will give me the opportunity to come back a little later to see its effects, once it is put in place. On the other hand, Mr Blanchart, I do not entirely agree with your view that radars would only have the effect of collecting fines. The so-called fear of the gendarmerie or the presence of radars in strategic places – as we must not put radars anywhere – is well known and has a deterrent effect. I'm a witness in my community. Maybe that's the case with you, too. In some cases, this has a very positive and useful effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u9	Mr President, Minister, recently I read in the newspaper that there have been some incidents in the Security Corps. For example, a prisoner could not attend his own trial due to problems with the Security Corps at the Justice Palace. The man was transferred from the Nivelles prison by the Nijvel security corps. However, that put him down to the cell complex of the Justice Palace and no further. According to the Corps, transferring him to the courtroom was a task for the Brussels Security Corps, which, however, was allegedly undermanned. There was nothing better than bringing the prisoner back to Nivelles without informing anyone about it. In the event of another incident, a hearing could not proceed properly because the Security Corps of the Brussels Justice Palace left the session early for punctuality purposes, without waiting for the federal police to replace it. The public prosecutor's office is displeased with the way things are going. Apparently, the conduct of hearings has been seriously disturbed for a number of years by the malfunctioning of the Security Corps of the FPS Justice Department. I have two questions about this. How do you think such problems can be avoided in the future, Minister? What is the state of play regarding the creation of the new 'Direction Surveillance and Protection' in which the Security Corps would be incorporated in the short term? My next question is in line with this problem. Following on from my previous question, I come back to last Thursday's action in which the vast majority of the Brussels Security Corps reported ill. As a result, the day shift was disrupted and, to the frustration of Magistrate Michel de Grève, the start of an assists process was completely confused. Apparently these actions are a result of two concerns, which apparently weigh so heavily that the staff no longer even listens to their trade unions. On the one hand, there is a pressing shortage of staff, but on the other hand, and above all, a deep dissatisfaction with the lack of clarity about the future Staff Regulations. More specifically, the staff would earn less and the promotion opportunities would be reduced. I have two questions on this too. Mr Minister, are you considering using a private security company, as in a previous action, to ensure the normal functioning of the Brussels court? What is the state of the negotiations with the trade unions on this future statute and what is your attitude to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u10	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who is following the Belgian justice system, the operation of the Security Corps has been a difficult issue for some time now, especially in Brussels. There have also been several incidents in recent weeks. Previously, the reason for the incidents was often discussed about the clouded relationship between the Security Corps and the police. Now it would still be about the implementation of the statute. Many questions have already been asked in the past about the operation and status of the Security Corps. In the past, for example, you informed me that four working groups have been set up which are already preparing a proposal which will be submitted to the trade unions for negotiation after approval by a steering committee composed of representatives of the various relevant ministers and departments. You also said that a first step was presented on 18 May 2016 and that staff should not be afraid of loss of wages or jobs. It is a sacred principle that no less should be earned in the case of a transfer, and this will be taken into account in the drafting of the regulatory and legal provisions. In your policy statement, please note: "In response to the notice of formal notice by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Unhuman or humiliating Treatment or Punishment and having regard to the Protocol Agreement of the Sectoral Committee III "Justice No. 351 of 2010 we introduce a guaranteed service to the Security Corps in order to safeguard the basic rights of the detainees. The modalities of the guaranteed services will be determined in consultation with the social partners. I have the following questions, Minister. What are the results of the different working groups? In what direction do the conversations evolve? Where is the calf bound to reach an agreement? What are the difficult points for the different parties? When will you provide a solution? Is the introduction of the guaranteed service also part of the discussions on the new statute? How will this be achieved and within what timeframe? How many employees do the Security Corps currently have? How many of these are long-term ill? Can you, if possible, split it up by area of activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, there are twenty-one new members of the Security Corps in Brussels. Ten of them will stay in Brussels. This already partly reflects the shortage of staff identified. Discussions on the transfer of personnel from the Security Corps to the new Directorate for Surveillance and Protection in the Federal Police are also continuing. I can only hope that the transparency in which these discussions take place will encourage the current staff to take up normal work so that these discussions can continue in a serene atmosphere. The federal police have already done a lot of preparatory work. Discussions with the trade unions on the legal text on the establishment of the service and the regulatory texts are currently being completed, which lays down a number of modalities, such as the creation of new degrees and the transfer of staff from BIAC airport monitoring and the military for the monitoring of nuclear sites. The discussion of the regulatory text to ensure that the staff of the Security Corps are transferred to the new service has not yet started, but, of course, some principles have already been put on the table at the edge of the discussion of the regulatory text setting up the new degrees. The staff member shall retain the right to his current scale if it is more favourable than the new one in which he or she is integrated. Guarantees are offered to those who have passed a career examination. There is a prospect of a career revolution, which so far does not exist. Guarantees are given regarding the retention of the current place of employment, the current tasks and the current working time arrangements. Guarantees are given on pension rights already built up. There is a written commitment to pay the overtime that cannot be included for the transfer. It is therefore regrettable that action is still taking place, just at a time when a number of requirements have already been met, such as the inclusion of a specific allowance in the betting system, as was the case with colleagues from the prison security staff, for whom this was already the case from 1 January 2005, the additional recruitments in the context of the fight against terrorism, 51 promotions by changing degrees to security assistant, eight of which had already been successful since 2011, and 29 baremic increases within the safety assistant and chief security assistant. Agreements were already concluded with the trade unions, but some agents decided to take further action by limiting their work to 7 hours and 36 minutes per day. In cases where that amounts to disobeying an order, action is taken by the administrative hierarchy. With the transfer to the new corps of federal police, the staff will be covered by the police regulations and they will come under a unit of command, which has not been the case so far. In this way, justice is always guaranteed. At one time, the private security company ordered the security of the main entrance of the Justice Palace to let the judges in for an assist case was called in. It is not intended to systematically have to appeal to that firm. The Security Corps currently employs 427 staff in 28 units spread across the territory. In 2016 25 staff members were long-term ill, spread over half of the units. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the federal police for their efforts to respond positively to our requests for assistance at times when it is necessary to guarantee the course of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I have one more question. Do you have a timing when those negotiations will be concluded and there will be clarity for the people?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u13	Mrs Lambrecht, as always, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u14	Mr President, Minister, the law which makes it possible to have interrogation for the chamber in criminal matters by means of videoconference has already been adopted in Parliament some time ago. The Act will enter into force on 1 September 2017, so within seven months. This is also part of your policy paper. In your policy paper for this year, you state as follows: "In anticipation of the Constitutional Court ruling on the application for destruction of the legal basis for the use of videoconferencing as an opportunity for the appearance of the council chamber, we roll out videoconferencing as a meeting-tool and extend the pilot in civil affairs Antwerp-Hasselt to the other resorts." Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions concerning the state of play regarding the concrete preparation for the implementation of this law. In the legal field, where are we with the royal decree to enforce this law? What are the modalities for videoconferencing? In practical terms, what budgets are provided for in the budget for the implementation of this law? What resources will be allocated to the public prosecutors and prisons, to plan videoconferences? What specific instructions did they receive? What planning is there for the roll-out of the infrastructure that should allow videoconferencing? What is the state of play in the roll-out of videoconference as a meeting tool? What is the state of play and planning to extend the pilot in civil matters to the other resorts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the drafting of the royal decree awaits the judgment of the Constitutional Court, following the action for annulment brought against the legal basis by avocats.be. In the broader context of videoconference within the FPS Justice, not only in criminal matters, the following investment proposals were made and submitted for approval by the DirCom, in the enlarged DirCom with the judicial order. Critical priority, investment in licenses and video material, part 1: 250 000 euros. High priority, investment in licenses and video material part 2: 250 000 euros. High priority investment in licenses and video material part 3: 250 000 euros. Given the need to wait for the regulatory framework resulting from the law in the Royal Decree-Law, it is not yet possible to proceed to an order or procurement of installations, useful for the appearance of the council chamber. The contract containing the current installations as a service could also be useful for the first pilot installation to be used in the council chamber. This means that a relatively short period of several months will be required because the regulatory framework provides for the installation to be tested. Seven meeting rooms were equipped with videoconferencing equipment, located at the College of Courts and Courts, the College of Attorneys General, the Cabinet of the Minister of Justice and the Attorneys General of the resorts of Ghent, Antwerp, Bergen and Liège. Skype for Business is currently being rolled out as a desktop solution. In addition to some proof of concepts that are already in progress, this collaboration tool will be made available by default on the 6 000 new laptops that will be rolled out within the judicial order in the coming months. A pilot project has been going on for two months in the courts of commerce, where this tool is mainly used to hold meetings and discussions between the different departments at the level of judges and clerks. I expect within ten days of the representatives of the judicial authorities the proposals for the placement of six new videoconferencing installations, as used in the pilot projects in Antwerp and Hasselt. A supplement is that these will be used in the various resorts at the level of the courts of occupation such as the pilot Antwerpen and Hasselt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u16	Minister, I understand that we are awaiting the ruling of the Constitutional Court. What is the normal deadline for the Constitutional Court to rule? I hear it's about eight months. Hopefully it will be within the deadline. I know there was discussion during the discussion of this bill. One of these points of discussion was whether or not we should ask the defendant to agree to appear through a videoconference. Apart from that, it is imperative that we make every effort to enable the videoconferencing to take place. This already applies in the neighbouring countries. I do not think that we should delay the preparations for the Royal Decree because the video conference will be held in Belgium anyway. We will continue to follow up on this matter. I hope that we will soon get a ruling from the Constitutional Court. In fact, 1 September is no longer as far off as we want to ensure that prisons and courts are ready for this new application.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u17	I have received an answer from you, Minister, to my written question No. 1563. I would have liked to have some explanation of your answer. From your reply, I conclude that SIDIS suite is connected to the Federal Police database as well as to the SISET database of the Communities. Can you tell me when these links between the various databases are available? In your written reply you will also mention the number of terrogates, broken down by location and nationality. I would have liked to have received some clarification from you, since my question was about the number of radicalised people. How many radicalized people are there? In the table I saw the number of terroged inmates. Maybe you can explain how you answered my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u18	In November 2016, the connection between the SIDIS-suite database and the Fedpol database was officially launched. The SIDIS suite and SISET database have been officially linked since 2014. Terro-convicts are defined as four categories. The terrorists are in Category A. These are all prisoners suspected, convicted or interned for acts of terrorism, as mentioned in Articles 137 to 141 of the Criminal Code. Category B is the equivalent. These are all prisoners who are not in custody for acts that have been legally qualified as terrorist, but where there is a clear link to terrorism as evidenced by the detention title, or because the person concerned proves by word or deed to be strongly associated with the profile of the violent extremist. The Cell extremism decides on the basis of the available information which inmate should be regarded as treated as such. Category C contains the foreign terrorist fighters. Those are the inmates who were recorded in the database foreign terrorist fighters of the OCAD. Inmates who suspect that they are radicalising or radicalising others belong to category B prisoners showing signs of radicalisation or radicalisation of other detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u19	Thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u20	Mr President, Minister, at the end of November the press reported on a particular situation. The first aid workers of the various courthouses received training organized by the Judicial Training Institute in order to train them in the manipulation of defibrillators. This is indeed a very good initiative! But the problem is that in the Verviers courthouse there are no defibrillators available. However, it is expected that ten thousand people are struck a year in Belgium with a cardiovascular arrest, so it is important that this device can be available to rescue workers in the event of an accident. As a result, several initiatives by the judiciary and judicial personnel to raise funds have been launched. In some districts, lawyers' bars have contributed financially. A situation which the SLFP-Judicial Order hastened to call unacceptable. Minister, according to the union, you would have refused to release the funds necessary for this very useful purchase, which endangers the lives of the people who, every day, are alongside this building of justice. Minister, can you confirm to me the absence of defibrillators in the Verviers courthouse? What about the other courthouses in Belgium? What are the reasons for this absence? Did you refuse this installation? Do you intend to remedy this sad situation? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u21	Mr Frédéric, the Justice FPS has not installed a defibrillator at the Verviers courthouse. The same applies to other palaces in the country. Recognizing the usefulness of these devices, my services are exploring the possibility of a partnership with an asbl for co-financing that would allow the installation of DEA devices in strategic buildings in the medium term. Indeed, the analysis demonstrated the feasibility of this project. The file will, moreover, be submitted shortly for agreement to the Joint Management Committee with the judicial services, then to the Finance Inspectorate, before being deployed to the field. The installation of this device can save lives, as long as it is used in the rules of art and accompanied by ad hoc gestures. It is in this context that the training given will be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u22	Minister, thank you. I must therefore conclude that it is not done, but that it will be done quickly. So I can inform the public, who will be happy about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u23	Mr President, Minister, this is a bit of a technical question. I did not introduce it by means of a written question because I think the answer can be relatively simple and there is an urgent need for the NSAs. The transposition of Directive 2013/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings, amending Directive 2006/43 and repealing Council Directives 78/660 and 83/349, was carried out by the Act of 18 December 2015, which amended the Company Code, and by the Royal Decree of 18 December 2015, which amended the Royal Decree of 30 January 2001 implementing the Company Code. This transposition concerned the annual accounts of undertakings alone and not those of associations and foundations. In the context of this transposition, the social balance sheet had to be excluded from the Annex to the annual accounts of the companies. In order to maintain the publication of the social balance sheet, the Belgian legislator adapted Article 100 of the Company Code by providing, in § 1, 6°/2, that: "within 30 days after the approval of the annual accounts and not later than seven months after the closing date of the financial year, shall be deposited by the directors or managers with the National Bank of Belgium: (...) the social balance sheet prescribed by the Act of 22 December 1995 laying down measures to implement the multiannual employment plan." Companies must now publish their social balance sheet on a separate document from the annual accounts and not in an integrated manner in the Annex to the annual accounts. This amendment shall apply to all financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2016. As far as associations and foundations are concerned, their own accounting legislation refers to both the Company Code and the Royal Decree. These references are found in Articles 9 and 10 of the Royal Decree of 19 December 2003 on accounting obligations and the disclosure of the annual accounts of certain associations and foundations. For the social balance sheet, these are articles 91 and 94 of the Royal Decree. In particular, Article 10 of the Royal Decree of 19 December 2003 states that the Annex to the complete scheme includes the information relating to the social balance sheet provided for in point B of subsection 3 of Section 2 of Chapter III of Title 1 of Book II of the Company Code. The content of point B has, however, been deleted by Article 21, 17° of the Royal Decree of 18 December 2015, which states that: "The title of and the text under B, "Social balance", shall be repealed". The same applies to the social balance sheet to be included in the abbreviated scheme. These repeals respond to the need to transfer the social balance sheet for companies into a separate document from the annual accounts, but it has not been taken into account that the repealed provisions were also used for associations and foundations whose regulations have not been changed, when transposing the accounting directive I was talking about at the beginning. It should also be noted that the Royal Decree of 4 August 1996 on the social balance sheet requires, in its Article 17, the publication of the social balance sheet to "other legal persons governed by private law" (including associations and foundations), but this Decree itself refers to two royal decrees (the Royal Decree of 8 October 1976 on the annual accounts of undertakings and the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 on the publication of acts and documents of companies and undertakings) which were repealed by the Royal Decree on Companies. Mr Minister, the reason for this is that I am being questioned because, to date, there is no legal basis for requiring the publication of the social balance sheet of associations and foundations. The ASBL diagrams of the annual accounts published by the National Bank of Belgium, the annex to which contains the social balance sheet, are therefore no longer in conformity with the law in its current entry. Can you confirm to me that the analysis I have just made to you, which has been relayed to me by the actors in the field, is correct, and if so, please indicate whether you intend to propose measures to correct this problem quickly, for example by replacing in Article 10 of the Royal Decree of 19 December 2003 to which I referred the reference to the famous point B. of Articles 91 and 94 of the Royal Decree Company Code, with a reference to Articles 191/2 and 191/3 of the same Royal Decree? The situation is indeed urgent since it concerns the annual accounts closed on 31 December 2016. I'm sorry about the technicality of the question, but apparently, it's important for the NSAs and the foundations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u24	Mrs Gerkens, after examining and consulting the Committee on Accounting Standards, I can tell you that in the situation we are dealing with, that is to say, a temporary situation in which the various legislations do not agree perfectly, practitioners must stick to implicit coordination. The associations and foundations which fall within the scope of the Royal Decree of 19 December 2003 must continue to draw up a social balance sheet and deposit it at the Centrale des balance sheets. A piece of legislation must be read and must have meaning in the context of the legal system as a whole. In other words, the words in the text of the law should be given meaning and scope consistent with the legal principles prevailing in legislation and jurisprudence and consistent with the problem solved by the text to be interpreted. I would point out, however, that the legislation applicable to associations and foundations is subject to a thorough screening to determine the necessary adaptations. It goes without saying that the aim is, in particular, to correct the imperfections that are the subject of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u25	Minister, I fully agree with you. There are many concerns about the consistency between the articles and the various legislative changes that have followed. I think it is important, and that is why I am asking you the question, that the actors on the ground know that the way in which they are going to be able to understand and interpret the existing obligations towards them is not going to harm them and that they are not going to be blamed for not having taken account of certain aspects, because we do not agree on the exact terms. Case law requires steps that are not part of the day-to-day and usual management of associations and foundations. Your answer will allow them to rest on it. I strongly encourage you to correct and clean the various texts so that they regain their full coherence and harmony.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u26	Mr. President, Minister, detainees have rights. If we do not know, human rights regularly remind us and the European Court. Our society has a duty to do everything possible to succeed in the reintegration process. However, it goes without saying that our prison supervisors deserve maximum safety in their workplace. We are in the era of internet, Google and social networks such as Facebook or Twitter. A proper balance must therefore be struck between the reintegration process and the security of officers, in particular, and of society in general. Minister, do inmates have unrestricted access to the Internet? If so, do they have access to social networks such as Facebook? If so, do you not find it abnormal or even insecure for an inmate to be able to communicate as he sees fit with the outside world when we are experiencing a period of radicalization in some inmates? Do you intend to take measures to limit such access, which may affect the safety of officers, police officers or even magistrates, and which are very shocking to persons contacted by a detainee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u27	Mr. President, Mr. Carcaci, detainees have no access to the Internet. Access to websites such as Facebook have sometimes been reported, but this was done through smartphones illegally introduced into the cell. The Directorate-General of Penitentiary Institutions is very active in combating the presence of this material in prison through very regular sweatings in all prisons, thanks to trained personnel and means of interception now present in all prisons. Access to a secure digital landscape will be possible in the near future through the Prison Cloud platform, but this will only be a strictly limited access to information related to the reintegration of prisoners (job search, training, housing, etc.).). Under no circumstances will it be possible to connect to social media such as Facebook through this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u28	Minister, I take note of your answer. If it is in the context of future reintegration, then it can only be approved. Nevertheless, I remain quite suspicious and attentive to the possible drifts generated by the clandestine presence of smartphones, thus allowing to communicate with the outside world.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u29	Questions Nos 16549 and 16557 by Mr Koenraad Degroote and question No 16555 by Mr Johan Klaps are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u30	Mr Minister, my question has a very long history, which you know in the meantime. At the time I also questioned Mr Stefaan De Clerck about this. It's about the syndical leave that's being taken to prison. And then it turned out this was just going up and up. Then it was measured with SP-Expert. That wasn't so obvious, because not every prison worked with SP-expert. But it was found that the alley. The previous Minister, Mrs Turtelboom, also acknowledged that in prisons where a comparison with SP-Expert could be made, there could be an increase in the syndical leave. At the time, Mr De Clerck indicated that the problem was getting worse and that measures had to be taken. The trade union is controlling this, but the government should actually do so as well as correcting it if necessary. The problem is that it is sometimes used improperly, which we absolutely must avoid. Why is it so important to avoid this? Well, if we are absent from a trade union meeting, there is underemployment in the workplace and the other fellow Members are paying attention to this. In this way, the trade unions organize exactly what they are fighting. Mrs Turtelboom then instructed her administration to clarify all these regulations and procedures relating to the syndical leave. A charter was then issued on 27 June 2014 within DG EPI. In it agreements were made between the FPS Justice and the three representative trade union organisations, which are evaluated biannually. This means that a first evaluation was carried out last year. I've already asked questions about that. We know that in 2013-2014 the number of syndical leave days stagnated around 11 100 days. The year 2015 saw a new peak of 13 825 days of union leave. On 30 April 2016, 5 612 trade union days were already allowed. Here it can be assumed that a record may have been broken in 2016. Then the project "Other works" came. You started it. In the light of this, the discussion about the syndical leave is of course relevant, because many absences on the work floor are just caused by the syndical leave. This makes it harder for others to take their leave because they have to fill in. There are also holes in the duty roster. In 2015, there were 59,48 full-time equivalents missing every day by taking syndicated leave. You confirmed to me in the middle of last year that the figures were high. You also believe that the charter should be evaluated first, in order to assess whether a better check can be made or whether a correction is possible. Minister, this evaluation should normally have been carried out by now. Hence my questions. Can you give me the current figures on the syndical leave within the prison system? How many days were finally registered in 2016? How do these figures evolve compared to the previous figures? Could you split up some of these figures? Do you know whether a split can also be made by recognised union? If not, could it not be a suggestion to register it in that way so that we know which union uses this system the most? Can you tell me how many full-time equivalents are missing daily on the workplace by syndical leave based on the 2016 figures? Has the charter already been evaluated? If so, what is the evaluation? If not, how come this has not yet happened? Do you also consider that additional measures are needed to improve the monitoring and, where appropriate, correction of the syndical leave in order to prevent its improper use in the light of the assessment of the charter? Finally, do you share the view of your party colleague and former Minister of Justice De Clerck that the number of days off is very high in Belgium? When we see the figures today, we see that we have a doubling of the figures that Stefaan De Clerck thought very high at the time and for which he already called the alarm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u31	Mrs. De Wit, we ended the year 2016 with 12 735 days of union leave. This is generally a decrease compared to 2015 by 13 825 days of trade union leave, but it is more than in 2014 with 11 093 days of trade union leave. It cannot be said that this is a trend that continues in every prison, because there are prisons where more days of union leave were granted in 2016 and in 2015. A division by recognised union cannot be removed from the system. At the moment, I am not considering adapting the system, as there are other priorities for ICT applications and R &amp; D adjustments. In 2016 68.28 full-time equivalents were missing daily on the work floor due to the inclusion of trade union leave. The assessment of the charter has yet to be carried out. A number of data have already been requested in order to do this properly. Priority was given to a number of other urgent issues such as the implementation of the protocol that we concluded on 30 May last year. I can only judge on the need for better monitoring or correction after assessment of the charter. These are high marks, that's true, but I respect the syndical statute. In this respect, too, I can only give an answer after evaluating the charter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u32	Minister, I understand that this evaluation must be carried out and I hope that it can be done soon, because it is important. I am well aware that the trade unions have their merits and need them, that is one thing. On the other hand, I would also like, out of honesty to my fellow Members, to have a proper record of those days of syndical leave. We must not have a two-hour meeting and then stay away all day. Of course, that is what the non-syndicated colleagues are suing, who will not be able to take leave days. It would be nice if that evaluation were to take place in the foreseeable future, so that we can see what can be done with it. If there's no problem, the better, we can move on. If there is a problem, then it can be remediated. I hope it will happen soon, if not soon, you will know that you can expect a similar question from me in some time. We're sure to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u33	Questions Nos 16701 and 16706 by Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu were postponed. Question No 16640 by Mr Emir Kir has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u34	Minister, I am asking you about the issue of advertising in the gambling sector. In this respect, the aim is to strike a balance between two issues: on the one hand, the protection of players against the risk of insurance, and on the other hand, the channelling of players towards the legal and therefore supervised offer. Several regulatory avenues for advertising in the gambling sector have been explored in recent months. At your request, the gambling committee has organised meetings with stakeholders in the sector. Without the agreement of all (operators, national lotteries, associations to combat gambling insurance), some gaming operators have taken an initiative of self-regulation, structured around, I quote, "a convention for ethical and responsible advertising and marketing". Faced with the failure of this concerted attempt, the gambling committee started working on a binding regulatory framework, which should be translated into a royal decree, announced by the end of 2016. In the absence of text, game operators question what will happen to them. What about the state of the art of reflection and discussion on the regulation of advertising in the gambling sector? What is the status of the draft royal decree referred to above? Can you give us the main directions at this stage? What are the elements of rapprochement or, on the contrary, divergence with the "Convention for Ethical and Responsible Advertising and Marketing"? Has the text of the draft royal decree been the subject of consultation with all stakeholders in the sector? Has the impact of regulation of advertising in the gambling sector been estimated on the viability of the sector and on the profitability of the legal offer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u35	A draft opinion to the Royal Decree was submitted to the Game of Chance Commission at its meeting on 26 October 2016. This subject will be discussed at a political level in the near future. The committee has yet to take a decision on the basis of a consolidated draft. The aim of the draft text is to limit advertising in a consistent manner and to avoid unnecessary pressure on vulnerable players. It also ensures public order and the scope of what is perceived as advertising or promotion. The Jury of Advertising Ethics is not competent for the volume and determination of the time of passage from advertising to television. The Convention, which has meaning only if the Jury applies them, must be carried by the sector in its great majority. This body has not yet expressed its position on the question of the sufficient representativeness of the sector which defends the Convention. The draft text has so far not been discussed with the sector. The aim is to make a synthesis before consulting it. The economic effects of the regulation have not yet been scientifically examined. Six ministers are competent to deal with gambling. In addition to economic impacts, elements related to safety, public health and justice are also included in the political decision-making process.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic596x.u36	Thank you for your answers, Minister. This concludes our work this afternoon.
