ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u1	Minister, it has come back to me by one of the officials of the Agency for Administrative Simplification (ASA), that the digitisation of civil registration documents by the creation of a central register of civil registration documents is unlikely to be in force until January 1, 2019. This no longer corresponds to the planning set out in the policy note on administrative simplification, which dates from 1 January 2018. It is important to put in place a clear timetable, taking into account the necessary integration into the reforms of a period of time between the passing of a law, its entry into force and its daily application by civil registrars and communal agents. Field training is often required in the context of major changes in this area. Minister, could you clarify a more specific timetable for the presentation of amendments to the Civil Code as part of the modernization process? Do you ensure that the reform will be implemented in accordance with the daily work of registrars and registrars?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u2	Fernandez, the project is expected to take effect either January 1, 2018 or January 1, 2019. The Council of Ministers is responsible for submitting, for the approval of the Government, the first draft texts on the modernization and computerisation of civil status in the coming months. If the work can progress very quickly, the project could take effect on January 1, 2018. The planned date depends not only on the draft finalisation of the draft text and its adaptation by the legislator, but also on the progress of the project in technical terms and on the completion of a sufficiently long test phase in all the municipalities. In any event, the actors concerned shall make every effort to determine the project as quickly as possible. Given the status of the project, the various partners concerned will have to decide in the coming weeks whether to provide instead for an effective date of 1 January 2019. This reform will of course be implemented with due regard for the day-to-day work of registrars and registrars. The various associations of officers and registrars are represented in the various working groups of the project. In addition, information sessions are held in the provinces for officers and registrars to provide them with advance information on the project and its consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u3	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I have recently had the opportunity to question your colleagues the Ministers of the Interior and Public Health about the possibility of registering their willingness to be an organ donor via secure online authentication. At present, the citizen must go to his municipal administration. This administrative approach may seem cumbersome for the active population, as accessibility is sometimes complicated after office hours. Many interventions to modernise administrative procedures through platforms or websites are also carried out. In Liège, two awareness-raising campaigns on organ donation were launched by the city of Liège, on the one hand, with the CHU of Liège and, on the other hand, in collaboration with the city and the province of Liège. These campaigns are necessary to inform citizens, but in order to be effective, all these local initiatives remain dependent on a nearby local government to finalize the donor approach. Without this, promises of gifts are lost in nature. Therefore, when the government envisages for the citizen a whole series of electronic steps, including ordering ID cards online, I tend to think that an online registration, via ID card and a card reader, would be sufficient to demonstrate his will as an organ donor. Mr Minister, your colleague from the Interior indicated in his reply that he was prepared to reflect on this type of procedure if your department and/or your colleague from Health took the initiative. So what is your position on the subject? Would you be prepared, together with your colleagues in Health and Home Affairs, to undertake a joint reflection on the modernisation of the online registration procedure for organ donation, which is also a strong demand from the voluntary sector working in this field?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u5	Fernandez Fernandez, it is important that as many people as possible register in the database to declare that they are willing to give their organs. Any effort that may be an incentive to do so should, in my view, be welcomed. The maximum simplification of registration is an aspect in which I would like to collaborate. Of course, we must also pay attention to the fact that the necessary guarantees, for example as regards identity and fitness, freedom of decision-making, remain preserved. I have no problem working together on an initiative that will allow us to move forward and that would be taken by the appropriate minister, in this case the Minister of Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u6	What is certain is that asking this government questions on such simple and public matters on which there can be a rapid political agreement is sport, because ping-pong is being done. From the interior, we are referred to Health. At Health, I am sent home and everyone says, "I agree to participate in the initiative that would be taken by my colleagues." Here, it is simply a matter of allowing citizens who so wish to register as donors. I feel that no one is against it, but I feel above all that none of the three of you intend to put their hands on the dough. When I see the importance of the matter, when I see the effort and energy that is deployed on a daily basis by associations and volunteers to which I referred, I simply find it regrettable that at one point, on three ministers, there is not one who tells me: "Yes, I am taking the initiative and yes, I am contacting my other two colleagues." I wanted to stress that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u7	Minister, the technical and scientific police have decided to activate their strike notice and are threatening to launch several new actions within the next few days. The cause is still and still is the lack of staff and financial resources. In order for the technical and scientific police to function properly, it is estimated that 700 people are required. At present, however, there are only 400 staff members in the service. Mr Minister, at the laboratory level, there is now only one lab in Wallonia (the future of which is more than uncertain), the NCIC in Brussels and three in Flanders (including the private company Eurofins which is present at the Bruges, Ghent and Hasselt sites). Do you confirm this information? In your answer to my last question about the future of the Forensic Institute of Liège, you have stated that you will oppose that all the expertise be found in the hands of a single provider. This statement tends to reassure us, but in fact, public labs, with the exception of the NCIC, are struggling to survive and anger is rumbling. What do you intend to do, particularly at the financial level, to reassure technical and scientific staff about their future? There would no longer be any recruitment for or future investment in equipment or infrastructure. However, in your last answer, a sentence has caught our full attention and we are concerned: "Consolidation of laboratories should have an impact in volume, thus reducing operating costs and making technological investments faster." Minister, in which hands do you want to entrust DNA analyses in the future: the NCIC or Eurofins?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u8	Fernandez, the technical and scientific police are becoming increasingly important in criminal investigations. The strike has no connection to DNA tariffs, the forensics does not deal with DNA analyses. In reply to your questions about the other DNA tariffs, I confirm that Belgium currently has five laboratories known to carry out DNA analyses: the national laboratory, the CNCC, which provides expertise in two languages, a French-speaking laboratory, and three laboratories in Flanders, including Eurofins, which has its headquarters in Brussels. The consolidation of laboratories is expected to have an impact in terms of volumes, thus reducing operating costs and making technological investments faster. If Belgian legislation on the European Public Procurement Directive is strictly interpreted, it would be possible to designate at most only one provider per Region and at least one provider for the territory for a period of four years. I object to this interpretation because, at the end of these four years, all the expertise would be with only one claimant. Moreover, there would be a risk that the activity would definitely go to another European country. Other laboratories can no longer carry out analyses during this four-year period, which means that they will lose their Belac accreditation and will therefore no longer be able to meet this important quality requirement in a future specification. Moreover, the principle of public procurement would undermine the independence of the judicial organization and the intention is certainly not that analyses and reports of ongoing criminal investigations are found in the hands of foreign operators, who cannot guarantee the same interaction between the provider and the judiciary. A re-evaluation of the pricing can be expected for the first half of 2017. This is not a simple operation, especially given the different approaches between university partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear nothing has anything to do with anything, but everything has to do with everything. I take note of these answers which confirm those which you have already given me elsewhere and which do not reassure me more today than yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u10	Mr Minister, from your reply to my written question a few weeks ago concerning the release of suspects due to procedural errors, I conclude that you do not reply chronologically to my five questions but also that you, together with me, find that there are no figures on the number of suspects released due to procedural errors. I think we should keep figures on this in order to be able to learn lessons and to provide the right information to the public. That seems to me to be better than always having to intervene in the wake of such mistakes, which are often made in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u11	Mrs Lambrecht, it is true that statistics cannot be provided on the number of parole releases due to procedural errors. Such refined judicial data shall not be recorded, particularly in the absence of a single definition of a procedural error or procedural irregularity. By the Act of 31 May 2005, Article 16 of the Law on provisional detention entered the mandatory release of the suspected person as a sanction for non-respect of certain procedural requirements, including the signature of the court and certain communications. I would like to point out that with the new law of 22 November 2016 on certain rights of persons being questioned, the so-called Salduz-biswet, I have had this sometimes disproportionate mandatory sanctioning deleted, with the exception of two fundamental requirements: the service of the arrest order and the hearing by the investigating judge within 24 hours. It is therefore now up to the investigating court, the boardroom or the Board of Appeal to investigate the infringement of another formal requirement and to assess it against the consequences of an immediate release. If the investigating court finds that the procedural error is insufficient to release the suspected person, in view of the risks posed by the ongoing investigation, the risk of recurrence or the possible withdrawal of the offender from the court, the investigating court may, therefore, extend the provisional detention. I can also assure you that, whether statistics are kept or not, any release ordered by the investigating court against the prosecution's claim is studied with due attention and, where appropriate, is the subject of memos prepared by the criminal justice expertise network. The Public Prosecutor has been a learning organisation for many years, as is said in management language, which actively follows court rulings, new legislation and policies to share information on this matter within the organisation and to achieve best practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u13	Question No 16895 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question, as is question No 16912 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u14	Minister, on Monday morning 27 February, I read in the newspaper that the dangerous bank robber Mustapha escaped from Lantin's prison during a walk. He didn't need more than a few accomplices, a ladder and some ropes. A group of inmates helped by kicking back at the right time to distract the guard's attention. This allowed lking to climb over the first wall. A guard saw it happen, but couldn't catch up. Then he escaped through a rope ladder that his minions had thrown over the wall from outside and drove away in a getaway car that was later burned out. At present, there is no trace of licking and his accomplices, unless you contradict that later, Minister. What measures had been taken to prevent the person concerned, who has tried to escape several times, from escaping? What are the decisions of your services following the incident regarding the responsibilities? Has an investigation started into any accomplices inside the prison? Will additional measures be taken at the Lantin prison or in other prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u15	Mevrouw Lambrecht, the detainee who escaped from Lantin prison was under arrest and, given that the latest information on an escape project in which he was allegedly involved dates back to 2009 and that nothing in his behaviour during his last detention could suggest the escape of 26 February 2017, he was placed under normal regime. As such, he had access to one of the premises of the prison in the very centre of the prison. To get a man out of this place, big ways were needed. The detainee benefited from internal (premises) and external (commando) complicity. Numerous hearings were conducted by the police services. The judicial investigation is under way with regard to detainees who are complicit in an incident at the preau. Disciplinary proceedings have also been initiated. With regard to the responsibilities, I can say that the staff present have carried out their duties correctly. They responded alertly to the incident, both in terms of reporting escape and external infiltration. A shift in Lantin's prison has 115 agents during the week and 102 on the weekends. On the day of the escape, the security posts were also effectively targeted. The surveillance of the walk, the camera surveillance and the intervention equipe were occupied. From the point of view of the prison security system in Lantin, there is, outside, a fence of a height of six meters, but as in many prisons, few security personnel who go around the prison. A fence with electric cables is also present between the doors of its vehicles. Then there is a wall of enclosure with a height of six meters. A perimeter protection based on infrared detection is available in the no-man's-land between the outer wall and the interior seal. Within the prison, the security system consists of video surveillance, alarm buttons and a radio communication system. After the 2011 escape, the concertinas, i.e. barbed wires with blades, were replaced. Shock wires (electric wires) are also placed on the walls of the meadows. The concertinas did not prevent the man from escaping in an area where there are no shock wires. We are considering extending the impact wires along the length of the front wall. Since 2014, important security work has been carried out in Lantin, but some work still needs to be done. This concerns in particular the replacement of the window chassis and the installation of an alarm system with geolocation and communication capabilities. The video surveillance system is also in need of replacement. Contacts have been made and will be followed up with the Régie des Bâtiments with a view to improving the security of the premises of the Lantin prison. Security projects also exist for many establishments and are subject to specific monitoring. In Belgium, it is not a criminal offence to evade the sentence or to implement other measures of deprivation of liberty or restraint, even in the form of escape. However, the detainees concerned may be prosecuted if they have caused damage or have violated the psychological or physical integrity of staff and third parties. However, the fact of avoiding the penalty or measure may play a part in the assessment of a request from the diner concerned to obtain arrangements for the enforcement of penalties, such as leave and early release. It can also lead to security measures and discipline. The deterrent effect of criminalizing an escape seems doubtful to me. Since the number of escapes from our prisons has systematically decreased in recent years - so last year, there have been none - there is, in my view, no need for such an additional criminalization. Similarly, safety procedures are sufficiently effective to avoid them. Providing firearms can only lead to more violence. Moreover, their manipulation is not part of the tasks of the prison surveillance staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u16	Thank you, Minister. I can only hope we find the escaped convict quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u17	Questions Nos 17038, 17039 and 17070 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu were postponed. Question No 17083 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh is transformed into a written question. Question No 17094 by Mr Emir Kir is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u18	Minister, in July 2013, the European Commission proposed a regulation establishing a European Public Prosecutor's Office, an instrument to combat infringements affecting the European Union's financial interests. This supranational prosecutor's office would be based on both a decentralised structure and a college composed of representatives from each Member State. Last week, the EU's Ministers for European Affairs noted the lack of unanimity on the creation of this European Public Prosecutor's Office. Although the intentions of some Member States are not clear, there is a prospect of enhanced cooperation to establish this institution with a limited number of voluntary States. Belgium would be one of them. The prospect of the implementation of this European Public Prosecutor's Office within the framework of enhanced cooperation between Member States calls for several questions. Are you in favour of the implementation of this European Public Prosecutor's Office? What would be the material competence of this prosecutor's office? What would his means of action be? What added value would this prosecutor's office bring to the fight against financial crime in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u19	Mr President, I remain in favour of the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Experience shows that the purely national approach to combating Community fraud is not enough; a higher degree of integration is needed. However, this does not mean that I am in favour of enhanced cooperation at all costs. I am optimistic, but there is a need for a sufficient critical mass, that is, sufficient key states of agreement to participate in this matter. This is what we need to look at now. The European Public Prosecutor's Office will be responsible for infringements affecting the Union's financial interests. They are defined in a directive called the PIF Directive finalised the previous year. This may involve fraud in the use of European structural funds or large VAT carousels where very large sums are involved. The European Public Prosecutor's Office will prosecute these matters before national courts and will have the same means of action as national public prosecutors. At the Belgian level, he will lead the investigation conducted by the police, authorize certain investigative measures or apply to the investigating judge for measures falling within the latter's competence. The added value of a European Public Prosecutor's Office lies in an integrated European approach. The European Public Prosecutor's Office can define, at European level, the priorities and the policy of prosecution in order to combat this Community fraud as effectively as possible. More operationally, the solution of a single European park makes it possible to carry out more effectively investigations which require action in several different Member States, as will often be the case for these criminal cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u20	Minister, thank you for repeating these elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u21	Mr President, Minister, last week the Council of Ministers approved a preliminary bill to punish lawyers who are alleged to be guilty of abuse of procedure in the field of foreign law. Criticisms have been heard on all sides: both lawyers.be and the Union professionnelle de la magistrature have already criticized the text and the Ordre des barreaus francophones has called on the government to bury this bill altogether. I'm not hiding from you that I'm also very worried. Although it is difficult to rule on a text that we do not have, this draft bill is likely to stigmatize foreigners: only foreigners would be more guilty than others of abuse of procedure (the practices of the Foreign Office are not even envisaged) and only abuses of the law of foreigners would be pinned. In the background, it is also the lawyers who are attacked while our right is already arming itself with this type of sanctions and the sticksmen are competent, under articles 456 and 508/8 of the Judicial Code, to take disciplinary action against lawyers who are alleged to be guilty of abuse. Minister, wouldn't there be a skill problem? Isn't it strange that it is the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration who legislates to punish lawyers? Do you consider that the existing rules in our legal system for this type of abuse are insufficient? What types of procedures does the draft legislation intend to address? Is the independence of lawyers not hindered when a personal conviction is imposed on them? Is there not a fundamental infringement of the rights of the defence through the right to challenge in an independent court a decision taken by a public administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u22	Mr President, dear colleague, you are referring to a preliminary bill proposing an amendment to section 39/73-1 of the Aliens Act of 15 December 1980. The Ministry responsible for legislation on aliens is the Minister responsible for access to the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens. So he's not the Minister of Justice. The draft proposes an amendment to the named article concerning the procedure before the Foreign Litigation Council. The article in force today already provides that, in its judgment, the Council may fix a hearing at an early date, if it considers that a fine for manifestly abusive remedies is justified. In view of the exclusive competence of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration on this matter, I propose that you address to him your questions concerning the amendments to this article. Under the common procedural law, abuse of proceedings is apprehended, on the one hand, through the doctrine of reckless and vexatious action for which the opposing party who is the victim seeks compensation for the damage caused to him by the civil offence of such abuse and, on the other hand, by the application of Article 780bis of the 2007 Judicial Code, which provides that the party who uses the proceedings for manifestly dilatatory or abusive purposes may be fined between 15 and 2,500 euros without prejudice to the damages that would be claimed. This civil fine is collected by the administration of my colleague in Finance. These two techniques, which benefit the victim and the State respectively, can be applied simultaneously. In this case, only a judgement is given on the matter. Otherwise, the proceedings shall be reopened ex officio for the application of the second procedure only.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I am very surprised by your answer. Indeed, I understand that you invoke the fact that you are not responsible for asylum, migration and access to the territory. But as far as the dispute is concerned, I urge you not to let your colleague, Mr Franken, walk on your feet, who suddenly decided that lawyers who practice the law of foreigners or that foreigners themselves start a lot of abusive proceedings. This is indeed a danger for the lawyers you represent. Having said that, I will not fail to ask your colleague for a more detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic615x.u24	Questions Nos 16820 and 16873 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter were postponed. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our work for this afternoon. Thank you.
