ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to this committee. We have an exchange of views with the Minister of Justice on the issue of Brabant killings. The way to work this afternoon could, if you agree, be next. The Minister will first take stock of the situation, following yesterday's meeting with the College of Attorneys General. Then the interventions will take place, political group by political group. The questions on the agenda will then be considered as having been asked. We will follow the order of importance of the groups for the order of the interventions. Then the Minister will answer and, if any reply is desired, it will take place. Can we do this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week I brought you a report on the state of affairs of the investigation of the facts carried out by the gang of Nivelles, les Tueries du Brabant wallon. I promised you I'd come back once I'd had another meeting with the College of Attorney General. That meeting took place yesterday. I would like to take this opportunity not only to report to you, but also to reply to your oral questions, with the support of the competent prosecutors. These answers are debated after your replies, my style is not, in general and certainly not in such a sensitive issue, in which it is not appropriate for a minister to interpret the answer of the prosecution in the light of additional questions or replies. Of course, I am prepared to provide some more general explanations after your replies or to answer some more general questions. Following consultations with the College of Attorneys General and the Director-General of the Federal Judicial Police, Mr Fontaine, five additional full-time members of the federal judicial police, including a bilingual criminal analyst, are also affected, in addition to three French-speaking and two Dutch-speaking surveyors of the federal judicial police. Four investigators of the P Committee will also be part of the investigation team full-time, having regard to the indications of involvement of former or remaining police officers. In the case of special needs and actions, additional police officers will also be involved and made available on a temporary basis, as many and as long as necessary. That is a first point. Secondly, after consultation with the College of Attorneys General and the Federal Office, it was decided that, in close cooperation with the Attorney General of Liège and the Attorney General of Mons and in close cooperation with the Office of Charleroi, the Federal Office will cooperate with the investigation, taking into account its particular expertise in research strategies, special detection techniques and victim assistance. For example, the Federal Security Office will provide its expertise to the victims to act as a central notification and point of contact. As was the case following the terrorist attacks by Zaventem and Maalbeek, a team of four magistrates will be responsible for the orientation of the victims to other competent administrative and judicial services. Information provision and legal guidance in the file are also included. Thirdly, the prosecution, in cooperation with the investigating judge, is planning a new consultation with the victims this year. That will take place in Brussels on 6 December in my presence. Simultaneous translation shall be ensured so that each victim can be fully informed in his or her own language. Moreover, all victims who have submitted themselves to a civil party are already entitled to have access to the file. It goes without saying that I will personally ensure that this type of meetings with the victims are repeated regularly, as my cabinet does with the interfederal task force to monitor the victims of the terrorist attacks. More generally, on a regular basis and whenever this is made necessary by urgent circumstances, I will sit with the prosecutors to discuss the progress of the investigation. I will be advised both internally and externally by the best experts and pay the most full respect for the independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office. A fourth point: most of the direct victims – the injured – and indirect – the relatives of the deceased victims of the Walloon Brabant killings – received appropriate assistance at the time, i.e. set by the Commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence, according to case law which has not changed since then. In our view, victims of the Walloon Brabant killings who would not have applied could still do so. Formally, Article 31a(1), (3) of the Law of 1 August 1985 provides that "the application shall be lodged within three years. The time limit shall apply, as the case may be, from the date of the first decision to dismiss the author as an unknown author, or from the day on which a decision to dismiss the author as an unknown author which has acquired the force of res judicata was handed down by an investigating court." In the absence of a ranking or dismissal, the time limit for submitting an application for aid is still short. The last paragraph of these provisions states that aid may also be granted where a period of more than one year has elapsed since the lodging of a complaint, the acquisition of the status of injured person or the date of the lodging of a civil action and the author remains unknown. This text creates a faculty and not an obligation. If financial aid were to be granted again to those who had already received it, it would logically be considered that there had been an increase in their harm. The time limit for requesting additional aid as provided for in the last paragraph of Article 37 of the Law of 1 August is currently ten years from the date on which the aid was paid. This is a strict deadline. The legislator could raise this deadline to thirty years – it's a little short for the victims of killings – to forty or fifty years. In this case, the victim should obviously show a worsening of his harm. The amount of additional aid would in principle be limited by the maximum aid ceiling minus the aid already granted at the time. There is still a need to consider how such an approach could also be used to assist indirect victims who have suffered only moral damage that adequately covers the procedural allowance, which is a flat-rate intervention in the costs of the lawyer of the triumphant party. I personally consider that the amendment of the Victims Compensation Fund Act of 1 August 1985, which we are preparing for the moment following the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee on Terrorism, is an excellent opportunity to take the necessary general measures in relation to all other cases, such as the victims of the Walloon Brabant killings who are living in total uncertainty, even more than thirty years after the facts. It remains clear that an advanced study and government consultation are required on the thorny issues of additional harm and its definition, legal fees and indirect victims. As far as legal fees are concerned, the study is already under way in the context of the inter-federal task force action plan on victims of terrorism. After these four points of action, which are the result of the consultation with the College of Attorneys General and the various departments, I will go into your specific questions. I base myself on information I obtained from the College of Attorney General and from the Attorney General of Liège. I take into account the secret of the investigation and I should be wary of communicating matters which could harm the progress of the investigation. I answered some of the questions I was asked last week. I will answer the questions on a subject-by-issue basis, first of all the more general questions that you all asked about the state of affairs. To the questions about the latest developments, the consultation with the College of Attorneys General, the extension of the investigation team and the exchange of information with the victims, I think I have just given you an answer. With regard to the question of the law on repentance, I would like to inform you of the following. The Council of Ministers of 14 May 2017 decided, on my proposal, that a general regime should be drawn up for repentants. The framework of this regime has been defined as follows: the testimony must relate to statements or to the provision of substantial elements concerning the offences of the perpetrators, co-sponsors, accomplices and the involvement of the person concerned. The regime will be limited to serious offences under the law, such as criminal organizations and certain terrorist offences. The possible consequence is limited to the granting of a reduction of the sentence or a method of execution of the sentence. The requirement for an effective sanction will be maintained. The system of repentants will require judicial approval, at every moment and on a case-by-case basis. This will not be the privilege of the prosecution alone. The principles of proportionality, subsidiarity and necessity will remain fully applicable, as in other specific investigative acts. The scheme cannot be applied to persons who pose a danger to society. Concrete legislation will be submitted again this year to the Council of Ministers. Limiting the regime of repentees to the present case is neither timely nor desirable. The regime of repentants will, however, as has just been said, have a limited scope of application. On the question of the powers of the P Committee in relation to specific criminal investigations, I can give you the following answers. Article 16 of the Organic Law on the P Committee states that the Committee's Survey Service, either on its own initiative or at the request of the competent prosecutor of the King, officer of war or investigating judge, together with the other officers and agents of judicial police and even with a right of priority to the aforementioned persons, shall investigate the crimes and malpractices committed against the members of the police forces and the OCAD. The members of the P Committee's Survey Service are all judicial police officers with general powers of determination, which are not limited to determining members of the police forces. However, in view of the terms of reference of the Survey Service, they are given priority responsibility for investigating the malpractices and crimes committed by members of the police forces. The Investigation Service of Committee P can therefore be used as a specialized police service in sensitive and complex cases, particularly in the case of criminal investigations involving members of the police services who have committed a crime. It is not, however, a police force that intervenes systematically and only in offences committed by a police officer or an inspector. In this case of the Brabant killer, the Investigation Service will operate at the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office or the investigating judge. For the first time, the case landed on the P Committee's office at the request of Charleroi's prosecutor in 2013. I come to the transfer of Termonde's file to Charleroi and to the reconsideration of this transfer by a re-transfer to Flanders. On this subject, I can be clear! This is a decision of 11 December 1990 which was taken by the Ghent Indictment Chamber. At the time, the Court held that it was preferable to attach the acts committed in the judicial district of Termonde to those that took place in the French-speaking part of the country, in Nivelles. This was therefore a concentration of the investigation. The decision to transfer a judicial file under the direction of an investigating judge to another district or resort is an exclusive competence of the judiciary. As I said earlier, it is now being proposed to increase and concentrate research resources, both in the area of police forces and in the area of magistracy. There was a request to hold a special meeting of the Justice Committee with all the persons concerned at the judicial level. I know that, for the time being, the investigation is continuing in a very active manner. The hearing of investigators and magistrates in the Justice Committee is, in my opinion, not on the agenda and could undermine the investigation at the factual, legal and tactical levels. As regards the use of the Supreme Court of Justice to monitor the functioning of the police and the judiciary, there is no indication that the judiciary and the judicial police would not function properly in the recent period. A check doesn't seem to be the issue. As has already been said, there must be plenty of investment in the dossier and in the new developments. I would like to point out that in the period following the facts of the Gang and other investigations, far-reaching reforms have already been carried out, both in the police and in the judiciary. In addition to that reform, the establishment of the Supreme Court of Justice, with its supervisory powers over the functioning of the court, guarantees adequate supervision. About the Farek broadcast on the VTM channel, which organised a call to tips via a free number, I can, at the request of Attorney General De Valkeneer, communicate the following. I quote: "The implementation of the Green Line was done in perfect coordination between VTM and the Federal Police. The provision of information to investigators does not give rise to any difficulty. But this is a VTM initiative." About what happened to David Van de Steen's declaration in February 2017 concerning Mr.B. I extensively briefed you last week, including the chronology of the actions. I am asked to clarify my statements from last week that attempts had been made to manipulate the investigation. I subsequently clarified in the media that I was referring to the discovery of weapons in the Brussels-Charleroi Canal. I was talking about an external manipulation. On other possible manipulations in the file, the Attorney General of Liège reports that the file contains numerous strange elements that do not correspond to the behaviour of ordinary criminals. I quote the Attorney General: "These strange elements give clues to the will to manipulate evidence." The reasons for this are not yet known. Now I quote the Attorney General of Liège literally: "The discovery of Ronquières is probably one of the most important manipulations. On other occasions, however, troubling evidence has been found to be abandoned, for example, by the authors, of exhibits that may have been intended to direct investigators to false leads, theft of exhibits, etc." Attorney General De Valkeneer adds: "The discovery of Ronquières in 1986 raises many questions, which the Second Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry also asked itself. The investigation was able to establish that these items had almost certainly not stayed a year, as was believed, but probably a week or two before they were discovered. This means that people are likely to have deposited these objects in the water so that they are discovered and, therefore, for the purpose of manipulating the investigation. It is strange, indeed, that criminals seek to discover evidence; it is usually the opposite that happens." With regard to the robot photo from the end of 1998 in connection with the so-called Reus and the report of a witness who would have recognized Rich Guardian B., the Attorney General informs me as follows: "Following the information provided by Mr. Van Damme in 1999, a saliva sample was taken and the genetic fingerprint extracted in 2000. This was compared to the two traces resting in the file in 2016. The result was negative." When asked why the comparison happened so late, the Attorney General replied: "The case was taken over by the current magistrates in 2009-2010. It is therefore not possible for them to decide on the choices made by their predecessors. Fingerprints were compared in 2000. The genetic footprint of the person concerned was lifted in 2000, but the comparison took place only in 2016. The reasons for this comparison are the secrecy of the investigation. Nevertheless, it can be said that this duty was indeed part of the investigations carried out at that time against former members of the Diane Brigade and special units of the gendarmerie, before the information concerning the gendarmes concerned was received. Also in 2000, all the photographs of persons recognized as being capable of matching the sketch-robot No. 19 released in 1997 – and not 1998 – were submitted to the witness who had provided the information to enable it to be carried out. Among the seven hundred photographs of persons who were recognized as corresponding to the sketch-robot no. 19, the witness retained thirteen of them in a non-formal manner but was strongly attracted to their physiognomy. Among the thirteen were Mr. B., the constable concerned. With regard to the lack of further investigations in 2000, it may be explained by the fact that the investigators at the time did not have any elements that appeared in 2017, in particular the confidences of B. shortly before his death. It is highly likely that, had this been the case, the investigation would have been further pursued concerning him." I answered your questions about Master Vermassen's letters last week. In that connection, I repeat the words of the Attorney General: "Lawyer Vermassen has transmitted information to the courts on three occasions. They were exploited and did not provide any contributing element for the investigation." In connection with the revelations about the identity of the possible Reus, the laptop of the data subject was indeed investigated. The same thing happened with his personal belongings that ended up with his brother after his death. A caravan he owned was also examined. Given the secret of the investigation, I can't say anything more about it. In view of the question as to why the information provided to the investigators was only now examined, I can only repeat that the information communicated to the investigating judge on 22 February 2017 concerning the national prosecutor concerned led to numerous investigative actions later, between 22 February and 21 October. I informed you all of these investigative actions last week. In addition, in view of the importance of this new track, in June 2017 it was decided to extend the search team of three French speakers to include two Dutch speakers, who included their tasks in the team in September. I come to the agreement with the VRT and the RTBF. I quote the Attorney General: "The contract was signed by the investigating judge, the prosecutors general of Mons and Liège and the prosecutor of the King of Charleroi. The victims were informed of this project, as well as the minister of the time, Ms Turtelboom and, later, when he took office, Minister Geens." The contract can be delivered. It was agreed that a reportage would not be broadcast until after the statute of limitations. According to the Attorney General, there has been no incident leading to the arrest of two detectives. I quote: "The people concerned no longer wished to work in the cell. They weren't sent out of the cell." I am asked whether the investigation has worked for six months without Dutch-speaking investigators. The Attorney General De Valkeneer replied, I quote: "For about six months, as soon as the need arose, two Dutch-speaking investigators returned to the cell." I just explained it to you a moment ago. I'll come to another question. The gendarmerie concerned, Mr. B., was a former member of the elite gendarmerie corps, the Diane group, from 1977 to 1979. This group was robbed on 1 January 1981 at its premises in Etterbeek. According to the Attorney General, a link to the facts of the Walloon Brabant has never been established to date. On the question of whether documents of the file would have been burned, Attorney General De Valkeneer replied: "I have no knowledge of such a fact. If investigators had burned documents in the file, they could be prosecuted for the destruction of documents entrusted to the public authority under article 241 of the Criminal Code." Mr President, here are some answers to the questions that have been put to me. The Attorney General provided detailed answers, provided that the secrecy of the investigation allowed him to do so. Of course, of the four main conclusions that I gave you at the beginning of my presentation, he will have to work more on the fourth on victim compensation and defence costs, but the other three will come into force from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u3	Mr President, Minister, we are grateful for the explanation you have given to our Justice Commission today. The Gang of Nivelles, a case that has touched our society in a special way for decades, is a file that speaks to the imagination and has an investigation of an absolutely unseen scale. Dutch newspaper NRC Handelsblad headlined last weekend very strikingly: "Millions of pages of research, zero offenders." We in our group would like to enter into a dialogue with you on the fact that justice can never or never have a commitment to results, but it is a commitment to resources. In the light of the investigation into the Gang of Nivelles, that concept of commitment of resources in the Justice Department is given a special dimension. We owe it to society, and not least to the victims and the relatives, to provide answers. Of course, there's no point in starting to make accusations. That doesn't help the victims. The political recovery of that file will not help us either. Let us above all, majority and opposition, have the same concerns and share the same questions with you. There's still time for a thorough investigation. It is not too late, because the limitation period has been extended, but it has to be done now. I have listened very carefully and, above all, I will have to read the quotes of the office of the Attorney General, so I am now replicating on the spot. I think you have said some very important things, firstly about quantity. On behalf of N-VA, I immediately told you that it is democratic and constitutional madness to investigate 28 murders and 20 wounded with five people. We are of course grateful for the fact that you are increasing the capacity of that research cell, which is not a moment too early. A second matter is that you also have an eye for the language. The language of crime is the language of truth. We have never, ever wanted to turn this into a Community matter from our party. The language of truth is the same in Wallonia and Flanders, but we must finally hear that universal language. There must also be more respect for the victims. That is what you are responding to, because you say that there will be researchers and that the victims will be accompanied more in their language. Thirdly, with regard to the transfer of the file, we have taken the opportunity of asking this question for something we all want here, namely that the case around the Gang of Nivelles finally gets the momentum of a normal case, even though the matter itself has become abnormal due to time. Those 28 murders need to be investigated like 28 murders need to be investigated. We have long missed the cadence and dynamics in the file. It's a bit of a blur to fucking justice. The response was only if an element came into the media, despite two parliamentary committees of inquiry. This is always a blow to the victims and society. The transmission is a motor moment in the file. Many factual and legal opinions were given. It is true that the judgment of the Chamber of Incriminates of 11 December 1990 gave rise to that judgment. However, we must look further, because internal measures have also been taken that you have not spoken of. Apart from that judgment, at some point researchers came very close to the truth. Indeed, the judgment allowed the merger between the research activity in Dendermonde and that in Nivelles, but it is sufficiently known that they were looking for totally divergent traces. It was a time when there was no federal parole. We must put everything in the right spirit of time, but it was also the time when a research judge of his own accord advocated the creation of Walloon and Flemish research teams and even designed a protocol for that purpose. However, for rather dark reasons, it has not been accepted in the final analysis. That, too, certainly requires further research. We are pleased that you are taking the lead with the victims. I know that's what you did from the day you arrived. We have also been together in difficult circumstances at the cemetery in Aalst, where we have spoken very individually with the victims, each of whom in their own way explained their immense sorrows. That's an unseen destruction. We have a duty to lighten it. I know that this is your concern, and we share it, but please let us ensure that extremely painful situations from the past, such as when David Van de Steen's grandfather was removed from a meeting of victims in the other part of the country manu militari, are definitely and irrevocably a thing of the past. I come to my final point. As far as manipulations are concerned, your statement from last week was sensitively nuanced because you and members of your group said exactly what was meant by it. I think I can understand from your explanation that you no longer refer directly or indirectly to researchers who were very close to certain slopes. We are, of course, at a difficult crossroads. There is the secret of the investigation, which we must respect as much as possible, and of course there is also the right to the truth. You have spoken of many abnormal cases and of abnormal offenders, if I have noted it correctly. But we must dare to go deeper. I have a question that I have been struggling with for hours and days, in particular the question of whether you, as a minister and especially your attorney general, who needs to inform you, are being properly informed yourself? There's a lot of tips coming in right now. I still believe that people who have information about this investigation should immediately go to court. With sympathy for the journalists, who, of course, also investigate everything. Now there are more journalists working on the file than researchers. That's no more than normal. All tips must know their way through the courts. But it may be good to make some kind of contradiction possible, as in the Netherlands. I do not mean that as a competition for the verbalists who do their work properly, but one could look over the shoulders of the extended team. Maybe independents, people who haven't done any research in this file can watch. The worst thing that can happen to our society now is that we would not take the thread seriously now. The past is the past, but the present remains the present, and the future is still there. I believe that we must spare no one or nothing. All suspicions about manipulations must also be dealt with. I want verbalists, policemen and people in the courthouse, who have done their job, in honour and conscience, to be honored. After all, good research has been done. At the same time, we also want to clarify these manipulations, whatever they may be. The essential thing is often invisible to the eyes, but I believe that we have a moral and judicial obligation to make that visible. Such a conflict team naturally conflicts with the secret of the investigation and must therefore be considered how this can be regulated legally. Our group is aware of the legal problems involved, but it certainly needs to be considered. We owe it to the victims and society that the term'manipulation' should no longer appear in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u4	Minister, I would also like to thank you for coming to Parliament today, as you promised, to provide us with information and answers. We'll take the time to analyze them again. Indeed, you have given us a lot of details about this case. We all want to ask you many questions. We have done so in writing, but we would like a more sustained debate and a real exchange. However, we also know that the case is under investigation and that the investigation is under way. We must be responsible and not hinder the possibility that one day the whole truth will be made in this matter. Nevertheless, Minister, you know that the new revelations concerning the killings of Brabant have obviously revived the emotions of the Belgians, as well as that of the victims and their families. The hope of one day knowing the truth is immense for the victims. I am also pleased with the measures that you intend to take to ensure that they are better heard and supported in their actions, and that they receive the compensation to which they are entitled. All hopes now rest on investigative teams to find the real culprits. You said last week in committee that attempts to manipulate the investigation had taken place in the past. That was also clear from the first committee of inquiry; I took the trouble of studying the report this weekend. You also described Giant Christian Bonkoffsky and the gendarmes as "interesting". And yet, it is already old. Why has this track not been explored when it has been known since 1999 and the name of this person is systematically returned to the file? Why did you wait so long and why didn't this lead? As you said last week, we have taken steps in Parliament to extend the limitation periods. Personally, I find it difficult to do so, to produce exceptional legislation, and to draw up laws that will be of general application, but on the basis of specific cases. We also know that the law must be abstract and general. This information once again gave the victims and their families hope that one day the case would be completed and the perpetrators arrested. Minister, I have a question for you. At the time when Mr. De Valkeneer had pleaded for the extension of the limitation periods, was it because the authorities had already heard of the brother's testimony? Is that why the legislation was developed to extend these deadlines? Why do I come back to this law? You said that the Council of Ministers was looking at the drafting of a law on repentance, which we will obviously have to decide on. If this law had already existed, would it have allowed the case to be completed? Would it have changed anything in the conduct of the investigation? For such an important provision, a calm debate seems to me necessary, more than a rush motivated by a particular case. On several occasions, I heard that it was the past and that, for that reason, we were not going to go back. The most important thing today is to focus on the means that will be mobilised so that the investigation can be completed. Minister, I am pleased that, from now on, several people will focus more on this investigation. You indicated that the team would be strengthened by four full-time P Committee investigators. You answered a number of questions. Nevertheless, it seems to me that I have not heard from you about the organization of the support that Committee P will provide. Indeed, you know that his situation will be very special and even delicate, since he will have to work under the control of the police services. But how will this one be exercised? The tasks to be carried out must therefore be defined in such a way as to avoid malfunctions as we have known in the past. I know that you are bound by the secrecy of the investigation, but I would nevertheless like to go back to the new elements that have appeared in this case. So, can you tell me whether the objects found in the Charleroi-Brussels Canal are really linked to the Brabant killing case? You talked about this new lead of the two gendarmes who, in fact, were already known. Their names come back several times. What do you intend to do? One of them died, the other is abroad. It was also said that the dynamics in this case had been somewhat reversed. In my view, we must take advantage of the opportunity and use all means to find the culprits. Minister, do you think that the means you have put at your disposal for this matter are sufficient to succeed? As I said, the statute of limitations has been extended by ten years. But today, there are only eight left. Time is running out and there is a risk that this dossier, which has haunted Belgium as a whole, will not be completed before the deadline has expired. And many might be disappointed because of the exceeding of the reasonable time or the really light penalties that could be taken if one day one succeeds in finding culprits.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation and the transparency that you brought last week and this week, within the rules of the rule of law. This also seems important to me with regard to the victims. My feeling is that the revelations from Mr B.'s surrounding statements and the recent findings in the canal near Ronquières can in any case offer new opportunities for research, which we must seize. The measures you take, along with the College of Attorney General, allow them. In the light of the new revelations, ladies and gentlemen of this Chamber, we must determine the angle of view to determine what these elements can contribute, first and foremost for the victims. What can we do with these new data in their best interest? It seems to me that it would be appropriate to ensure, first of all, that the research is given additional impetus from various angles. I believe that the Minister of Justice has given an answer to that. Minister, I am very pleased that the P Committee is also actively involved in this. Lately, people have been able to read and hear a lot of talk about the state watch. Colleagues, we're talking about some state guards here. Perhaps too much, numerically speaking, but there are a lot more who have done their work on land all over the place very well and undisputed. I would like to emphasise that. Colleagues, some of you know that I was part of the Gang Committee-bis, so the second committee of inquiry. We have heard dozens of detectives, French speakers and Dutch speakers. We have heard several magistrates, French speakers and Dutch speakers. Well, I've seen a lot of talent, and I've heard a lot of commitment and drive. I will not forget that, despite the fact that there has undoubtedly been far too much error in this dossier and the result to date is unfortunately sad, first and foremost for the victims and, of course, for our rule of law. The most important thing we can do now for the victims and for our rule of law is to give additional impetus from various angles. I think it is right that the federal court should be involved, with its specific expertises, as the Minister has also described. Colleagues, almost all of us were still on the school benches or at university, or we had just graduated when the facts took place. It is understandable that after 35 years of research there is no result in distrust of the police and the judiciary, both of which must be mentioned, and not selective............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It will be a long-term work to restore that mistrust, and the only way to do that is to show openness to the victims. It's a good thing the Attorney General sees these people as soon as possible. Minister, we have just closed a committee of inquiry. In the first part, we also examined the situation of the victims of the terrorist crimes in Maalbeek and Zaventem and made recommendations for improvement. Some recommendations have already been incorporated into a law because the government had already taken initiatives, others will be followed up. For me, the victims of the Gang of Nivelles are avant la lettre and deserve similar treatment to the terrorist victims of Zaventem and Maalbeek. We can also include this in the legislation that will soon be submitted to the Chamber. I am in favour, and I understand from your explanatory statement that you are, Minister, to see what we can do extra for the victims of the Gang of Nivelles, whether or not with legal adjustments. They deserve that. They may be exceptional measures, but they were also exceptional crimes. We have already taken exceptional measures to extend the limitation period. I am in favour of additional exceptional measures where possible, in favour of and support for the victims. Minister, we are eagerly looking forward to the government's draft. I am pleased that a political agreement has been reached on this in the Summer Agreement, which is now getting its legal translation into the law on regrets. As you know, our group, Mr Van Parys and myself, had already tabled legislative proposals on this subject at the beginning of this century, which were repeated and supplemented after legislative time. The subject seems to me to be important indeed. It may also give new opportunities to research into the Gang of Nivelles. Nevertheless, I agree with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality that you have set out. It is not possible for a serious criminal with hardly any information to talk a small shrimp to the gallows and take a large reduction in his sentence. That would also be an unfair application of the law to the regret victims. I don't think anyone in this Chamber is arguing for that. Minister, there was a lot of talk last week about manipulation. I have not heard any nuances in your speech today. You have nuanced what some people have wrongly wanted to put in your mouth. Of course, there may be external manipulation. The Chamber should not be surprised. I commend the Members who have not been in the Chamber for a long time, the reading of the first report and the second report of the Committee of Inquiry. I know the second report better than the first. These reports include various slopes towards external manipulation. Colleagues, this dossier is a disgrace to our society in general and to police, justice and other security services in particular. If we can remove this disgrace, we must seize every opportunity we have to do so with both hands. I agree and we have always agreed that nothing or no one should be spared, that goes without saying. It goes without saying that it must be done in accordance with the rules of our rule of law, which means respect for the secrecy of the investigation and respect for the rights of the defence. That is to say, first of all, with respect for the rights of the victims. After all, we cannot afford to see criminals with a crushing social responsibility to the families of the victims in particular, and to our society in general, avoid their punishment. Minister, it is a dream I cherish, despite 35 years of research, and others still cherish it, and I am convinced to find the perpetrators, to punish them, and to find out the reason for committing their crimes. Then the victims will receive an answer to their legitimate questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u6	Minister, it has been said in the media over the last few days, and today it has been repeated again: we must not forget that the Gang of Nivelles has cost 28 lives and 25 people have been seriously injured. You will not contradict me, Minister, that the victims and their families must be able to trust that the justice and police will do everything in their power to find out the truth and bring the guilty to justice. You've just confirmed that to the media. Minister, it is never too late to do the right thing. I hope that justice can still be achieved in the case in question. I thank you for the way in which you are taking initiatives to better inform the victims: you are not blinking them off, but you are providing correct information to the victims. I would also like to thank you for taking additional initiatives to grant the victims the appropriate compensation to which they are entitled. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the trust of the victims has been put to greater use. That's not just because of the long duration of the investigation. That is quite understandable: after 30 years, who would not lose courage, confidence and hope? I therefore understand the reactions we all received through emails and letters from families of victims involved in the investigation. Minister, there are some who believe that the investigation is being manipulated and that the truth must not come to light. You yourself spoke in this committee in a previous sitting about attempts at manipulation. You underlined that you put your finger on an old wound. Mr Verherstraeten referred to the report of the second parliamentary committee of inquiry. It contains literally: 'The committee has also identified elements in the file which may indicate possible manipulation of the investigators'. They were more specifically talking about the find in Ronquières. That is also what you underlined at the last committee meeting. Not only have you taken the word manipulation in the mouth, which was also stated by the investigating judge who is in the process of investigating today. You confirm it today and we have also been able to read Attorney General De Valkeneer in the press. He not only refers to the find in Ronquières, but also refers to a number of other incidents in the investigation. I will then immediately refer back to the opinion in the report of the second committee of inquiry that further judicial inquiries are required into the possible manipulations. Mr Minister, I do not know whether you can confirm it, but I hope that the piste will indeed be investigated in the ongoing judicial investigation or in a separate investigation. In fact, clarification of possible manipulation will undoubtedly lead to the perpetrators of the dramatic crimes. You also confirmed that I will say a little more about this later: the P Committee started an investigation in 2013. Why did it take so long before the P Committee started an external investigation of the operation of the police forces, when there were actually much earlier indications that there might have been effective manipulation and that there would have been no proper action. I can also refer to the fact that, in accordance with Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee of Inquiry referred to the Court of Appeal for its determination of indications of suspicion of crime. I am therefore asking myself what happened to it in practice? Have these clarifications contributed to the further good research that we indeed stand for? Mr Minister, Mr D. Haese has already mentioned that it is a good thing that you have clarified the way in which Judge Troch got his resignation at the time and that the investigation has been transferred to Charleroi. We have also read this in the report of the Committee of Inquiry. Some claim that, according to them, the dismissal of investigating judge Troch had only one goal, namely to put an end to the investigation. However, if you read the reasons for the dismissal of Judge Troch in the investigatory report on page 32 and the following section, it is true that the fact that the investigation was carried out in three different districts and that there were few possibilities, but also little will, is pointed out specifically in the direction of a particular source of justice, Mr Delors, has meant that one could ultimately only centralize the investigation in one place, whatever happened at the time. This was done by means of a procedure conducted before the Board Chamber and subsequently had its final decision before the Board of Appeal. It is good that you emphasise what is the real deal, just to put an end, through objective facts, to the speculations that are still going around today. I am therefore grateful that you have made the effort to clarify this once again. I am also pleased to note that there will be support from the federal prosecutor's office. This was also an explicit sigh of my group. I think we are all aware that, should such events occur in different judicial districts today, it would be a matter for the federal court. At that time, however, that possibility did not exist, there was no federal court, and one had to row with the belts that one had and cooperation on the ground was apparently not such a manifestation. The latter is, by the way, a bad thing which has not yet been eradicated. Mr Minister, I refer again to the investigation report. I have noticed that the State Guard has never initiated an internal investigation to find out if ex-promised guards are called Bouhouche, Beijer and Amory... were possibly involved in the crimes of the Gang of Nivelles. Mr Verherstraeten, I am not talking about the state watch; I am fully aware that many detectives have made their life's work and are still doing so in order to find out the truth. If you read this statement together with the expert reports of the ballistics investigation which show that Bouhouche's weapon would have been used during one of the attacks, then you can only have doubts about the reasons for it. It is such elements in the file that fuel speculation and mistrust, including among the victims. For these reasons alone, it is important not only for an internal investigation but also for an external investigation. It may be too late, but, as I have already said, it is never too late to do the right thing. As far as the judicial part is concerned, Minister, I believe that you said that there would be no evidence that the investigation would not have worked properly in this area. Mr President, I would like to ask you once again to read the report of the second committee of inquiry. It is not my intention today to point the finger at one or the other, but I believe that sooner or later there should be an external investigation. You refer to the powers of the Supreme Court of Justice. I believe that the investigation of the investigation, including the judicial part, certainly deserves its place. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, what now? You have already mentioned this, Minister, the victims and our society expect answers to the questions of what is the plan now and how much resources will be allocated to it. I am pleased to note that the necessary measures are apparently being taken to ensure that the resources needed to carry on the investigation in an appropriate manner are made available today. When I heard Attorney General De Valkeneer say in the media that the media attention to the file apparently has some good aspects, I made a mistake. Now, there would be no problem in providing additional resources. Am I to conclude that this was not the case in the past? Were there insufficient resources to continue the investigation in an appropriate manner? Or did I misunderstand that? Did the investigating judge wish to investigate certain slopes and make certain research actions, but did he not have the necessary manpower or resources to do so? Is it true that the prosecution of the investigating judge has requested certain investigative actions and has had to establish that certain investigative actions have not been carried out? These are questions that we are all asking ourselves, and we would like an answer to them. As far as the research plan is concerned, there was a strong recommendation from the second Gang Committee to conduct a systematic and coordinated comparative study of the various major crime phenomena or waves that have plagued our society in the 1980s. A research plan should be drawn up and the necessary resources provided. I understand that there is now a criminal analyst coming in, but I hope that assistance will also be provided. I did not hear you say that by the central services. Then I'm talking about behavioral scientists who need to be available to create unsub profiles. Have ViCLAS profiles been developed, for example? Has that been done in the past? How far does this lead us in the investigation? There are new elements today that may bring research back to the right track. We all know that the further the investigation is in time away from the time when the crimes were committed, the more difficult it is to detect crimes. Today, in addition to a number of material elements which can apparently still be found and which may lead to clarification, we are also confronted with a number of statements by direct or indirect witnesses. Minister, I would also like to ask you a few questions about this. I hope that those who conduct the investigation will perhaps be following us and listening to us or reading our questions. In view of the need to rely on statements by direct or indirect witnesses to enable the investigation to take a certain turn or to take a particular direction, I hope that the means of the polygraph test will also be used. According to scientific research, such a test would provide as much as 95% certainty in the result. That test takes place by means of a police interview, which, of course, is aimed at finding out the truth. Physiological changes, on which our mind has no free control, can be measured in that test. In this way it is possible to determine with almost certainty whether or not a statement is lying. In the context of research, this test is now mostly used to question certain suspects. However, according to the teachings of the College of Attorneys General, that test can be applied to anyone involved in an investigation, which means that witnesses can also be subjected to that test. If we now learn from the press that a certain Beijer is willing to return to Belgium to make statements, would it not be a good idea, for example, to use the polygraph test in that interview? Would it not be a good idea to at least allow anyone who can indicate very concrete traces in the context of that study to undergo such a test? It could at least raise a lot of uncertainty and support the detectives in finding out the truth. The victims expect the police and the judiciary to finally bring to light the truth in this file, which has cost so many victims and lives, as quickly as possible and hopefully before we have to close the file without any result. That is not only the wish of my group, but also of our society. I hope that you will also show the drive with which you carry out your duties in order to follow up the investigation further and hopefully bring it to a successful conclusion with the help of those who are competent to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u7	Minister, I will be brief and concise in the hope that you will remember my questions very carefully and that they will not disappear in a long discourse. I would like to thank you for your explanations last week and today, but the more information we fortunately get, the more questions we ask and many citizens with us continue to have. I want to start with the victims. There is very broad support to help them very hard with information, but also financially. In your statement last week, you spoke very clearly about 'a trace of terror' and 'events of such inhumanity that it seemed as if the State itself had been attacked'. In 2017, your proposal was endorsed by the Council of Ministers, which recognised a series of attacks as acts of terrorism. They're listed in it. In my opinion, and many others, including Mr Verherstraeten, it is a plausible proposal that the acts of terrorism of the Gang of Nivelles should really be recognised as terror and that the victims should be eligible for compensation through the terrorist attack fund, in a much faster way than would be the case at present. Mr. Secretary, you want to work on the ordinary rules of the Victims' Fund. I call on you to refrain from doing so and to recognise the acts committed so many years ago by the Gang of Nivelles as serious acts of terror, so that the victims can claim the fund for the victims of terror. Things would go a lot faster. I believe I have understood that I can get support for this, even from your partymate. I do not know to what extent they have been tested. In any case, you can count on the support of the opposition for such an adjustment. That is a first point. Secondly, Minister, last week you were unable to answer the question of whether the so-called Reus was being questioned. I didn't really get it out of your discourse today either. You're talking about saliva tests, DNA tests and the fact that years pass before one is placed next to the other. Now, has C.B., the possible giant, ever been interrogated? That's a very simple question. Mr. Lester, please give us an answer. Then I have questions about a very difficult point. A 2012 report showed very clearly that part of the file was burned. Now I hear you repeat in your discourse that Attorney General De Valkeneer would have no knowledge that part of the file would have been burned. However, that report was not drawn up by the first of the best. It was drafted by Mr. Eddy Vos, research manager until 2012, who made it very clear that part of the pieces were burned. Coincidence or not, but in 2012 the same Eddy Fox was taken off the investigation. Minister, I would remind you that your predecessor, Mrs Turtelboom, once stated in the Senate that I quote: 'the files were in poor condition and had to be destroyed'. We would very much like to know whether there will be any further investigation into the possible incineration of documents in the file, because that is not the first thing to be done. It's a police report, which is an official document. If we can no longer rely here in Belgium on the fact that minutes are correct, we have an additional problem, with the hundreds of problems we already have in connection with the investigation of the Gang of Nivelles. Minister, you are very much in favour of modernising justice. Has anyone started digitizing the three million pages of the file on the Gang of Nivelles? I keep hearing that people don't have time to read in. I also have a question about the control of the ongoing investigation. Clearly, there are very serious problems and there is absolutely no need to set up a monitoring body for the ongoing judicial investigations, an idea which colleagues support. I am very pleased with that, as always, when there is support for what we want, or for what others want. Despite the P Committee and the I Committee, today, 2017, we still see many problems in the investigations, especially in the investigation of the Nivelles Gang. There is still no J Committee, a Justice Committee, which can see in all independence whether mistakes are being made in ongoing investigations. Soon you may argue that there is the Supreme Court of Justice after all. That is true, Minister, but that High Council appoints the magistrates and must also check them at the same time. We do not think that is a healthy situation. We therefore urge the J Committee to be set up, to explain to Parliament current legal investigations and possible problems. I have one last question. I'll keep it concise, so I hope you'll answer them all. We find it incomprehensible that we cannot open a newspaper or watch a television programme without seeing Attorney General De Valkeneer. He's as famous as a rock star these days. He talks, he talks, he gives interviews. We are asking here in Parliament, I repeat, at every committee meeting whether we, as representatives of the people who are asking us questions, can also see Attorney General De Valkeneer, literally, in person, to ask him questions? I understand that you have said again in your answers today that you will not let him come to Parliament. Minister, my party and many in the Chamber, I think, cannot accept the fact that an attorney general is present in the press all day, but does not have to come to Parliament. That is incomprehensible and I would like an answer from you on this, because I find it ambitant that I am ambitious to you, even though I would really like to do so once Mr De Valkeneer is here, as is normally the case in such circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u8	Mr President, the issue still affects the people, which has been felt very good in recent days, even though the latest facts of 32 years ago. What I particularly regret is that once again the impression is created and it is reinforced that information has not been deliberately investigated properly or thoroughly enough or that certain slopes have not been investigated. This is very damaging to the faith in justice, which is very damaging to the faith of the people in the operation of our police forces, especially when it appears that there are again indications that some former guards were involved. With the victims' families, it also evokes the feeling that for years, when questioned or received, they have confessed to the devil, as they are called. That is the image that lives with the people, when every time that possible involvement of former guards appears. There's a new element now. I think we all hope that this can be a new impetus for a breakthrough, although we must always remain very calm about it. However, one never knows. Any opportunity must be seized to try to find out the truth. That is what many victims and family members want to know. Who's behind it? That is the most important question. Justice fails if such crimes cannot be resolved. We've known so many in history. There was the Lahaut case a while ago. This is also one of the issues that has never been resolved and that has finally been resolved by historical research after the file was finally closed. I hope that we will not have to wait for the statute of limitations on this dossier and historical examination of all sources in order to find out the truth in the end. The file of a murdered state guard, Peter De Vleeschauwer, is also a file in which the slope of an internal reckoning seems to be very relevant. That file too is completely noisy. It was even removed from Dendermonde and transferred to Ghent. That too is a dossier which continues to weigh up, in which there are a lot of questions about what actually happened and where there are occasional parallels. Minister, I would like to comment very briefly on some of the answers you have given. First of all, I would like to thank you for your precise answers to many of my questions. I think it's important that the team be strengthened now, even with a felony analyst, but you didn't mention any foreign expertise. Of course, the research needs driven investigators. They are certainly in our country, but if we want to check whether we have gone wrong somewhere, whether there have been blockages somewhere and whether pistes have not been seriously investigated, an external look is also very important. This can be an external look with experts from our country, but also expertise from abroad. Is this a piste you or the research team are considering putting in? This is an additional question as far as the research cell is concerned. As far as the role of the federal prosecutor is concerned, over the last few days we have felt a little bit coming up that the federal prosecutor could get a role. We all know that the federal prosecutor has a great deal of expertise on serious crime and terrorism. You announce that the federal prosecutor will cooperate with you, but from your answer I do not know what his precise role will be. Could you explain that a little bit more? You spoke about the expertise that it has in dealing with victims, and certainly as a central notification point, but I hope that we will not only use the federal prosecutor for their expertise in the reception and referral of victims. Will the federal prosecutor also have an effective role in the investigation, operationally, to examine which slopes need further investigation? Will it get a part in that? If that is the case, how do you see the relationship, on the one hand, between the federal prosecutor and the federal prosecutor and, on the other hand, the Attorney General of Liège, who is now de facto in charge, but also the Prosecutor of Charleroi, who also has a role to play? Will they not walk in the footsteps of one another? Will there be a hierarchy? Will it be clear who will turn the lines off or can everyone join us in setting the lines and cutting each other's lines? If it is decided to use the federal prosecutor's office, it is very important that there is a very clear answer to these questions and that it becomes very clear what the effective role of the federal prosecutor will be or will not be. You say that there will now be consultation with the victims. That is a very good thing. You also say that everyone who has made a bourgeois party has been given access to the file. We get the signal that a second or additional file was opened in 2011, in which the manipulations are just being investigated. We hear that the victims and family members are not allowed access to that file. If the Attorney General informs you that all victims who have submitted themselves to a bourgeois party have been granted access, does that mean that the victims can have access or have access to the specific file of the investigation into manipulations? You did not answer my explicit question, possibly because you did not receive an answer from the Attorney General yourself. I liked that answer. As far as the P Committee is concerned, you have explained what it can do and what its role may be. You refer to the fact that it was first appointed in 2013 in this file by the King's Attorney of Charleroi. Can you indicate the nature of his duties? Was this to investigate the internal slope of possible involvement of ex-promised guards? Or has it, which is legally possible, taken on other elements of the investigation as well? With regard to manipulations, I have just referred to the study that would have started in 2011 specifically on possible manipulations of the file. Your answer shows that the Attorney General knows about various bizarre events in the file. It is not just about finding out in the Brussels-Charleroi canal, but apparently about many other things that have gone weird. If we want to find out who's behind this, the investigation into the investigation and the manipulations is essential. If we can find out why certain people have blocked certain slopes, did not want to investigate thoroughly whether it has made it difficult for the detectives, then we can get closer to the truth. The research into the investigation, the investigation into the manipulations, I think that is an important element. Involving external persons in research, from our country or from abroad, can be very useful for that analysis. I call upon you to investigate these slopes very seriously. As for the saliva samples, I was very surprised to learn last week that saliva samples were taken in 2000 but that they were only analysed in 2017. I have asked questions about this and I have listened to the answers you have received. In fact, the Attorney General says that he has no explanation as to why those analyses did not take place in 2000, why 17 years have passed to carry out the analyses. It can't be. Then, in a manner of speaking, one falls from one's seat. I would also like to hear the Attorney General on this. You say that one can only go back to 2009 or 2008 to find out, but the people who worked on the file in 2000 didn't all die or leave for Thailand or the other side of the world? One can certainly examine why some things did and others did not happen at some point. Why wasn't the family questioned at that time? Why weren't the colleagues questioned? Why weren't the colleagues mapped out? Now it is done, 17 years after the facts. Why didn't they do that 17 years ago? Once again, one can investigate this internally, but one could also submit it to an external team of people who look at it with a very critical look. You confirmed that there is indeed a contract between the RTBF and the VRT, on the one hand, and the researchers and the Justice, on the other hand, you have indicated who has all agreed to do so to make a kind of reportage that will be broadcast only after the file has expired. This is bizarre, because victims when they access the file are confronted with people who are scanning the file. When they ask what they are doing, the answer is that they are journalisting and making a reportage. Those people have to drive to Charleroi. The dossier has apparently been digitised by now, as Mrs Turtelboom replied to a parliamentary question in 2013, she said that everything has been scanned. Yet there are journalists sitting there doing all that. The Dutch-speaking detectives who accompanied the victims were apparently also surprised to see that. A few weeks later, those two detectives were no longer detectives in that cell. The Attorney General told you that there was no conflict, that there was no incident, that they just left that cell. You say that there have indeed been no Dutch-speaking investigators in that cell for six months. For six months, there was not a single Dutch-speaking investigator in that cell, while a large part of the investigation relates to facts that have happened in Flanders, with Dutch-speaking suspects, with Dutch-speaking victims. Let me have some reservations about that. Finally, Mr President, what is the next step? It is good that we are holding the debate today. Minister, you stated that you yourself will be present at the next meeting with the victims. It would be good if we could agree that you can return to us on a regular basis. You will be regularly informed of what you have rightly requested. Whenever you have new information every few weeks or months and at some crucial moments, it would be interesting to get together so that you can explain what you can tell us, so of course without violating the secret of the investigation. It would be interesting, should we do so regularly. I've seen you nod. So I assume you are prepared to do so in a regular manner. That is particularly important. We must not forget that there have already been two parliamentary committees of inquiry. Parliament has already invested very heavily in research. It is therefore also Parliament's right to follow up on the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u9	Mr President, Minister, it was indeed important that you come today to answer the questions. You also did it last week, especially at the request of our Ecolo-Groen group. This is important because not only are the twists that we saw and heard about this case about ten days ago, are very interesting and lead to new leads, but above all because it is a very extraordinary affair, in the first sense of the term, not only in relation to the dramatic number of victims (28), but also because we are talking – you and other colleagues – about the manipulation of the investigation and the attempt to destabilize the state. These are strong concepts, serious accusations. Beyond this investigation, the rule of law and our democracy are at stake here. What seems important to us is to be able to shed light on the possible complicity and responsibilities within the state apparatus that may have existed over the thirty-two years of investigation around these killings in Brabant. Today, the families of the victims and many observers we have heard, especially in the press, over the last ten days, are convinced that thanks to these revelations, it is now or never. We share that conviction. We really feel that we are moving quickly on very important elements. It seems to us fundamental to be able to do everything possible at this stage to get to the end of the truth. I'm going to go back to some of the answers you gave, but also to some of the others that I haven't found in your answers or that I may have misunderstood. One of the most important, if not the most important, aspects concerns the victims and the families of the victims. In this regard, you have come with a series of measures and meetings that you will organize. The Federal Prosecutor's Office will be mobilized with four judges to make the point of contact. These are very positive things that are related to what we have done in particular in the committee of inquiry which has just concluded on the attacks of 22 March. You're talking about better information, looking at the files. It is known that the victims and the families of the victims have many legitimate demands in this case. You're also talking about allowances. We know how sometimes some people have felt abandoned over the years. As several colleagues have already said, all that concerns the recognition of victims is fundamental. We are also seeking that victims in connection with the Brabant killings receive the same recognition as victims of terrorist acts, such as those of 22 March which were the subject of the commission of inquiry. We believe that this is a step in the right direction and we will support it. I come to another element of clarification about the answers you gave. You went back to the statements of Mr. Marc Van Damme, who explained that, already in 1999, he had reported that he had recognized the Geant's portrait-robot. You answered that sequence. However, some points remain extremely nebulous. My colleague, Stefaan Van Hecke, has already referred to fingerprints and saliva. Why do we wait so long to analyze them? And above all, was Christian B.'s professional or family background questioned in 1999 or in the years that followed? I have the impression that this element is missing in your answer. I also noted that the consultation of his "human resources" file with the federal police – as you said last week – was only done in 2017, so when the analyses were compared. You confirmed that this was done in 2017, more than seventeen years later. It's quite challenging. Is that correct? If so, can you tell us why so many years have passed before you have access to all of these analyses? On the other hand, some colleagues have mentioned the two commissions of inquiry that have already taken place on this issue of the Brabant Killings. A statement which particularly asked me and which I mentioned in my question concerns the committee of inquiry bis and the expert, Cyrille Fijnaut, who said last week: "I found that the investigations directed at gendarmes were often not sufficiently thorough, not sufficiently consistent and not fast enough." How can these comments be interpreted today in the light of the findings of the Committee of Inquiry bis? Minister, how do you interpret these comments? It is quite strong, quite challenging that the expert of this commission of inquiry should now come with such questions. Another point concerns the strengthening of the investigation team, which is a short-term necessity. This decision is in the right direction, both in terms of strengthening the role or number of inspectors of Committee P. Finally, the last point I wish to highlight concerns the working method that we must decide collectively today for the follow-up of the investigation. You explained the meetings you were going to have in the near future. It is essential to organise a structured follow-up at the level of the Justice Committee at a determined frequency and the information in your possession so that we can follow all the elements of this dossier very closely, not to do the work in the place of the investigators – this is not our role – but to shed light – this is our role – on the shortcomings of the investigation, the possible responsibilities within the State apparatus and over the last thirty-two years. It is our role as a Member of Parliament to control democracy through parliamentary scrutiny. Following the answers you will still give, it is important that we can agree collectively, with a structured working method. I think it's important. Answers are now more necessary than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u10	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your preliminary intervention. It is positive that, since last week, you have been quick to react, as well as your services and the services of the Justice Department, including the Attorney General. Minister, you have responded to a number of our questions and requests, including on team building. The numbers are already on the table. In your presentation, you have defined exactly the profiles. Police officers are also available. These bearers may allow us to go further and faster in the search for judicial truth and, beyond that, improve the image of justice. I wanted to stress this element, which I imagine will perhaps allow for a greater systematization of the investigation, with attention to a number of details. The second element I wanted to stress, and you mentioned it in your speech, is all about the victims. For us, this is one of the essential elements of this case. People have been in difficult, painful situations for many years. But there is also renewed hope. There's a light on. New leads can be followed. You explained how you were going to treat the victims. Believe that we appreciate that! I would like to return, as far as the victims are concerned, to one of the elements. When the investigation in recent weeks has accelerated again, how has this been explained to the victims? You announced there's a follow-up. How was the return of the investigation under the spotlight explained? You have answered our various questions concerning, among other things, the green number. We appreciate all of these responses. Our group is well aware of the fact that if any impetus were needed for this investigation, obviously with due regard for the judiciary and the secrecy of the investigation, you would be at the root of this increase in capacity and potential for work. Mr Minister, last week you proposed to come back to committee and explain to us regularly the state of the case – always in accordance with the secrecy of the investigation. What then is the procedure you intend to put in place so that the committee is aware of the follow-up to the case without asking questions each time? The flow of information between you, the public prosecutors' offices and Parliament, while respecting the power of each other, should be systematically maintained so that we can have the information. You know that there have been two parliamentary inquiries. Parliament is well aware of this, but we want to know how you will act so that everyone can have the information to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u11	Mr President, Minister, after the latest revelations in the killers' file – I am thinking of the testimony about Christian Bonkoffsky, also known as the Band Giant – no one can deny the relevance of the track of the involvement of the gendarmerie and the Diane group. It is therefore to be hoped that the research will focus more on this track than in fact, in thirty-two years, several journalists and the PTB have always considered the most credible. The then Minister of Justice Jean Gol or the prosecutor of Nivelles Jean Depreêtre considered her to be a fictional police novel. The second commission of inquiry into the Brabant killers – there were two – had even claimed that investigations had been carried out in this direction, but that they had not been conscientious enough, not coherent enough, not fast enough. Why? There are various possible reasons. But one of the reasons is, no doubt, the reluctance of some investigators and at the political level to believe that the problem could lie in our institutions. We could still see it, last Wednesday, when Herman De Croo explained that he refused to believe in the gendarmerie track. What is interesting is not so much his assertion, but the motivation that guided him. He said that "this would indicate the end of the system; if we have to structurally doubt those who have to enforce the law, there are certain certainties in me." So there was obviously a fundamental, structural refusal in some people's minds to consider such things, obviously hoping that they would not prove to be even worse. There is a risk of slipping into a thesis of a limited number of bad seeds that would have germinated in a totally restricted circle of gendarmes. In my view, this option cannot be satisfied. In any case, Minister, victims and the general public have the right to know the truth about, of course, the monstrous crimes that have been committed, but also about certain pressures that may have been exerted and some manipulations that may have taken place in the course of the investigation. We must find the authors, but also the accomplices and sponsors. And, as Mr. From Valkeneer, you have to look higher to find those who gave the orders. Research is needed both on the facts and on the possible manipulations that may have taken place at the level of the investigation, one being able to reinforce the other. Minister, following the consultation yesterday, can you tell me whether the investigation will focus on the gendarmerie track and the Diane group? Is there an option for specialized foreign investigators - French, Dutch, etc. - could be involved in analysing new leads or finding interference in the investigation? In any case, according to Professor Fijnaut - one of the experts of the second commission of inquiry - this was never considered an option. However, it would seem interesting to have a fresh look at the facts and the investigation. Was the lead of the gendarmerie and the Diane group more closely followed after the second commission of inquiry which worked on the issue of the numerous flaws?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u12	Président: Kristien Van Vaerenbergh. Can we see a change of course in the red line of the investigation? According to Tony Van Parys, if new leads related to the gendarmerie or the Diane group had been explored, the cell should have reported it. Was that the case? Why were testimonies against gendarmes, such as that of Bozidar Djuroski Jr, who had recognized a gendarmerie from the Alost barracks, never taken seriously? Testimonies indicate that Christian Bonkoffsky has repeatedly said that Belgium needs a coup d'état. Will he be taken seriously and seen as a motive to carry out attacks in a strategy of tension - I think we can really talk about terrorist attacks - with a view to establishing an atmosphere of terror, so that a certain extreme right-wing policy and a certain strengthening of the repressive apparatus can be accepted? Are we investigating in this direction? In my opinion, the statements of the one who has been nicknamed the "Geant" can shed light on this dossier. Why wasn't his house searched after his brother's testimony? You talked about a campsite, but not his home as such. Minister, what is your interpretation of the various statements regarding the possible sabotage of the investigation? I am thinking of counsel Walter Van Steenbrugge, who, on the October 23 issue of Terzake, indicated that the investigating judge in charge of the case, Ms.Michel, had herself stated in October 2016 that the investigation had been sabotaged. I also refer to the statements of lawyer Jef Vermassen, who stated, in the show De Zevende Dag on 22 October, that he had received an anonymous letter from someone who claimed to have been a member of the Brabant Killers and who was going to disclose their names to him. This lawyer reportedly forwarded the letter to the Ghent Attorney General, who allegedly transferred it to the investigation cell - which would never have opened it. Minister, does this mail exist? Have we found him? Christian De Valkeneer's statement on 25 October stated that much pressure had been exerted and that it was not easy to work in this climate. To the question about the identity of those who do not want certain things to be discovered, he replied that he would not give names. Minister, I suppose you're not going to reveal any names – I'd be surprised – especially in view of the precautions you took during your introduction. But what are you inspired by such words? Several witnesses speak of protections from above. This is the case with Christian B's brother. Victims believed that they had been manipulated and investigators also. You mentioned the canal case earlier. Minister, you say that there have been no internal manipulations, but only possible external manipulations. What are you basing this statement on? How do you explain that Investigative Judge Martine Michel does not exclude internal manipulation? In 1998, a sketch of Christian B.'s features was produced. At that time, his personal file already contained elements, including a link to the Diane group. Why was Christian B. never questioned at the time? Why was the track provided by Marc Van Damme clearly never taken seriously? Why distribute portrait-robots when nothing is done when people report having recognized some of them? Is it simply to say that we are doing something, to appease the population? Have the portraits-robots been compared to the faces of members of the Diane group? Are you aware of surveillance of Marc Van Damme in 1998? It is said that after his revelations, he would have found that he was under surveillance. Could this surveillance have involved investigators, the police and the Sûreté? Was the incident that led to the resignation of Christian B., of the Diane group, a shooting or a weapon-handling problem? Did the investigators look at the co-workers or even the captain of Christian B.? Are there links between Christian B. and other suspects like Jean Bultot? Finally, Christian B.'s brother also spoke of Madani Bouhouche and Robert Beijer, who came, he said, "at home", even though Beijer denied it. Does this track persist at this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. In any case, I note that you are trying to follow the dossier as closely as possible. The involvement of the federal prosecutor seems to me to be a good thing. The strengthening of the teams also seems to me to be a positive point. The recognition of victims is equally positive. However, I also have a number of concerns of a more general nature. Unlike some of my fellow Members, I will not refer to newspaper articles or statements from anyone who is close or far with the Gang and ask you to confirm or deny that. You can't either, by the way. We have already extended the limitation period twice in this case: in 2002 and in 2015. I voted in favour in 2015, and I would still do so. We must do everything possible and impossible in this dossier. The normal course of justice means that persons appear before the courts at a certain point in time to be assessed. But aren't we already doing the impossible? Master Peter Callebaut, who is a lawyer for a number of victims and has been working on this case for 32 years, says that the file has been completely messed up and that no one in that case will ever come before a judge. I believe that we must also dare to ask ourselves this question. For example, we are looking at the requirement of a reasonable period of time. After so many years, can we actually say that the reasonable period has been respected? I realise that it is not an acquittal when the reasonable time limit has been exceeded, but only a declaration of guilt. On the other hand, the degree of difficulty of a file is of great importance in assessing the requirement of a reasonable period of time. I watched the 1995 Panorama broadcast about the Gang of Nivelles. That broadcast ends with a very curious observation. The journalist mentioned information that was provided to him by two sources and confirmed by two other sources, namely the name of the Giant of the Gang of Nivelles. That man would have walked free. Investigators wanted to set a trap, but their superiors didn't allow it. I believe that we are both of a certain age to know that the slopes of the Diane Group and the National Guard were mentioned from the beginning. Not only the Diane Group and the National Guard were mentioned from the beginning, apparently it was already quite easy for journalists in 1995 to find the Reus. The case which has always been claimed to be particularly complicated is therefore perhaps not so complicated. Maybe there's been some effective manipulation here and there. If the case does not prove complicated, the reasonable period has certainly been exceeded. The extension may also pose problems as to the foreseeability of the effects that will be attached to behaviour. This is also one of the important criteria in Article 6. I also mention the state of that file. It is quite remarkable to learn that a DNA sample, taken in 2000, will not be checked until 2017. In my view, that is no longer the way to talk about normal administration of justice. The number of such special events accumulates in that file. A television broadcast is now being prepared, which will not be broadcast until the limitation period has taken effect, but we are told, for example, that journalists can scan all kinds of documents. Excuse me, but given the secret of the investigation, the moment when that broadcast will be broadcast is not pertinent. The possible breach of the secret of the investigation is now taking place. If it is true that documents are being scanned, as I have read in the media, then I think there is a problem. I also note that we are dealing with something peculiar in that file, which only occurs in files that drag on for so long. The secret of the investigation is actually turning against the truth. The secret of the investigation prevents a piece from revealing the truth. I fully understand the difficult position you are in as Minister of Justice. Indeed, it is difficult for you to answer our questions. You are not involved in the investigation, nor are you the superior superior of the judges. The role of the Minister of Justice is truly specific. However, it is strange, in view of the truth, that the answer to the question why some research actions are made so late is covered by the secret of the investigation. You will notice that the secret of the investigation is against the truth, which must be known. As far as the secret of the investigation is concerned, I would also like to mention the following. Attorney De Valkeneer will send you regularly, if I may put that with some humour, cheating notes that you're reading here. Again, all understanding, because I know your position as Minister of Justice very well. It's hard for you to change. Mr De Valkeneer himself we see a lot and very easy interviews in the French and Flemish media. Mr De Valkeneer is omnipresent, except in Parliament. That's where he sends you cheating notes, which you read. That's weird. Now there are some new slopes. We must, whatever you have done, strengthen the team and now, as far as possible, guarantee the normal course of justice. At some point, however, we will have to find, certainly in agreement and preferably even in agreement with the victims, that the investigation has stalled and is not working. There is one point on which I strongly disagree with you. You're referring to the dark '80s, where you say things went wrong. Between those years and the people who are involved in the investigation today, you are making an artificial separation. However, the file did not just go wrong in the 1980s. The file has gone wrong since the '80s until today. Perhaps the best proof of this is that the DNA sample from 1999-2000 is only examined so many years later, namely in 2017. The file has obviously gone wrong over the whole period. From the beginning the tracks of the Reus and the slope of the Diane Group were known. That is all very well explained. Journalists were able to figure that out during that Panorama broadcast in 1995, while detectives couldn't figure it out. So there really is a dysfunction here. Whether internal or external manipulation is involved, we do not know at the moment. So we cannot make any statements about this either. The secret of the investigation, as it works here in the file, may well mean that we will never be able to say anything about it. Perhaps, at some point, I should like to repeat it in consultation and, for me, in agreement with the victims, we should also take other paths. I'm a very cool lover of parliamentary committees of inquiry. Since last week I have been even less in favour of this than before. Sometimes such a committee has succeeded. I am thinking here of the Lumumba Committee, where it was also about facts that were quite old. The Lumumba Committee was successful because it had very solid scientific historical support. It's a similar file. So perhaps we should think of such a slope. However, I am clearly not in favour of a classic parliamentary committee of inquiry. I do not believe in that, to be honest. Another comparison is that with Julien Lahaut's file, in which the secret of the research also ensured that nothing came up, in which it was also searched for years, in which it was also said that it was a very complicated matter, until at some point it came into the hands of scientists and the matter seemed to be quite simple. I think that, in view of the possible new slopes, I should like to be cautious in doing so, we should try to achieve a normal course of justice, in which people come before the criminal court. At some point, however, we will have to open our eyes and look at alternative slopes. I think it's important in this case for the truth to come to light. You also said last week that it was possible here to take action against a democratic government. That would be very bad. So there must be clarity in the matter. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u14	Minister, I thank you for your expressed and agreed willingness to come and report on the situation in the most transparent way possible. You were here on 24 October, you are there today, on 31 October, to give us information in the framework of an exchange of views desired by the committee last week, with the limits of an investigation still under way. My group had several questions and you answered them for the most part. These questions were about your follow-up to the case, about your contacts with the investigation cell. You indicated that these contacts would be strengthened in order to have the best possible follow-up and to be able to communicate more accurately how this survey is evolving. You have expressed your particular concern – and this is also the case with the MR group – about the treatment of victims in relation to access to information and in relation to the communication of information when new elements are involved. The financial aspect has also been discussed and we welcome it. You were also asked about the means that would be available to strengthen this investigation. Although an unfortunate sentence would suggest that it is media pressure that pushes an investigation forward, I hope that is not the case. It is above all the new elements that push forward an investigation and behind it, we need resources. You have made it clear that there will be ways to ensure that the truth can finally come out. It always takes a bit of optimism in life. There are new elements and we feel the will to go to the end to confront these elements with reality. We hope that the truth will come out, first for the victims, and then for our country, because questions arise about the involvement of ex-gendarmerie. You talked about the support that would be given by the federal prosecutor's office. There were also questions and answers. The same applies to the role of the P Committee, past, present and future. Minister, as you said, we have to keep our heads cold. We must avoid any hasty statement that sometimes gives rise to hopes that are too quickly disappointed. Let us not forget that there are victims waiting for the truth, there are victims who remain particularly wounded. Any announcement must therefore be made with caution because there are sensitivities that capture this information in a particular way. We must have absolute respect for that. You have spoken about the fact that you will continue to pay particular attention to the victims and some colleagues have wished to be able to provide them with proven and verified information. We are also asking to have this access to information to avoid – it was my colleague Van Cauter who said so – the flow of false or partially fair information that can lead to disappointments, incomprehension or even anger. It's normal because it's the truth that has to take precedence. For all this, Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am one who continues to follow a path once that path has been set in motion. We decided together in 2015 not to allow the limitation period to apply. I just reread a statement by Mr Turtelboom in the Senate on 20 June 2013. She said it was too early to make a ruling on whether or not to do so. When I was confronted with the dossier at the end of 2014, I thought very seriously about that question, on the basis of the data that the research team could then give me in two consecutive, long meetings, with an interval of about seven months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u16	We decided at that time. I know people who have been working with Lumumba and Lahaut, but we have not yet reached that far, we have been in the process a long time ago. I therefore still prefer the truth and the punishment at the moment. It would be easy to leave the punishment at some point and think only of the truth. That's good, but when I talk to the victims, I don't feel like there's even the slightest willingness to do so in our society. So I don't like to go into questions like that. I understand these questions and read them, but we have chosen to continue. So let's get on with it, and get on with it as best we can. The relationship between the executive, legislative and judicial authorities is, of course, particularly complex when we are talking about the operation of justice and a judicial investigation. Although state law or judicial law was not my preferred material when I was teaching, I could write about it and say that you would be interested at the moment, but I will not do so. This question will be even more acute when the judiciary, as in the Netherlands, becomes completely autonomous in its organisation. These are complex problems for a Minister of Justice to take the floor. This is something that everyone among you knows about the judicial problems. What Mr De Valkeneer is doing now, as some of you seem to be skeptical, is not so new. We have been through the process for three years now that magistrates speak much more easily, including magistrates of the court. Services also speak much easier. This is the result of the transparency that our society is currently in. I do not feel that the citizen is unhappy with that. On the contrary, he gets the experience that he is really being heard and that he can really know what is going on. That has a lot of positive aspects. I think that the communication of Attorney General De Valkeneer of the past ten days has given a number of people the feeling that there should be no secrets hidden. Anyone who says anything always runs the risk of ripping a certain phrase he uses out of context, a minister is best placed to know that I do not refer to Mr De Valkeneer, but that is always the risk. However, I do not feel that communication has been negative. Questioning him in Parliament is something else. I replied to that. I'm not passionate about that. At the moment, the College of Attorneys-General does not consider that to be wise, but that is not a njet in a tone that is final and irrevocable. I would like to invite all the members of the Committee on Justice, and I have done so to several fellow Members in privatim, to reflect on the way in which, in the future, these problems are not dealt with by committees of inquiry, which is a different story. In many cases, the Minister of Justice has no choice but to come here and say what the prosecution tells him. If a judicial decision has been taken, he will be asked not to say too much, but he will be asked why that decision was taken. These are one of the most difficult issues in the field, and I think that in 2025 we will deal with them differently than we do today. At least I hope so, because this is not always the easiest position. The press should not care about what I say now, this is simply a general constitutional argument. This is not an easy position and we all know it. As far as the means are concerned, I believe that above all we must give the necessary resources to carry out the investigation to its end. I have no prejudice over that. I believe that yesterday's decisions do demonstrate that. The Director General of our Federal Judicial Police told me: "You will receive all the means that the investigation needs" – ten permanent, four for Committee P and, on an ad hoc basis, as needed, those that are necessary to carry out operations, even in a sustainable manner. That's very clear. Have we not been able to do some things that we could have done with more resources? Once again, I don't know everything, far from it; but I think I can tell you that no. We could have done everything we wanted to do. Have there been periods of discouragement in some phases of the investigation, which lasts thirty-two years, periods when investigators, by certain events, by certain tracks taken which had not been successful, have been discouraged? Probably. Is it human? Yes, it's human. That's why I talked about new energy. I am honestly very pleased that you, as well as public opinion and the press, are here to give this new breath that was missing in 2013 and 2014. I'm not talking about you personally, or the victims. I am just saying that we have rediscovered the case, especially those who have already sat on a committee of inquiry. On reading these reports, we find all the names that have been spoken today. These reports are particularly revealing. So it was with a certain surprise that I felt that we were not ready to rehearse certain things. We have repeatedly reconfirmed that there was no police war. I didn't mention war last week. Turtelboom, in 2013, said, "There is no war." But as soon as some things are said, everyone thinks about war. Not me, at no time. The Attorney General just confirmed, I think, everything I said last week. Nothing else. Nothing less, nothing more. Obviously, as Mr. Van Hecke and Mrs Lambrecht, he gave you my answer. The whole file is digitalized. It is also true, and Ms. Turtelboom at one point on 20 June 2013 said that there were parts of the file that were completely deteriorated and wet. No one said anything about a fire. Mr. De Valkeneer says he's never heard of it. That's all he says. He doesn't say that's not true. He says he's never heard of it. In any case, the entire folder is saved digitally. Nothing's missing. It's all there. For every investigator, external, internal, foreign, historian, the file is there. What the Attorney-General tells me is that the incident that would have taken place between some victims, some investigators and some channels, according to him, did not take place and if it took place, under no circumstances did it result in the resignation or withdrawal of some investigators. The J Committee, the justice, the investigation of the investigation, you will have found that every time I resumed, I said this last week, police and justice. I rarely spoke, except in cases where a certain degree of anonymity was required, of the gendarmerie. I really did my best not to blame a specific body. I can now be accused that, artificially, I am trying to whiten those who are investigating for the moment to the detriment of those who made it in the 1980s. On many occasions, I tried to explain the age I was at the time, between 24 and 27, and how I relate to this story today. I say that for young people who may be a little older than my age at the time. Once again the potential manipulation referred to dates back to 1986. It's very old. I was 28 years old in 1986, to tell you everything. To go and tell prosecutors general and chiefs of corps of a current DirJu that they are responsible is not serious. I want them to be available and not discouraged in advance by the noise, the sound – from the Dutch rush – made around this investigation. We're gonna say, "But you're the first culprit." No. I tried to recognize what the Attorney General just confirmed. Both reports further confirm this. There are difficult things to explain in a rule of law. I must be able to say it and say at the same time that our rule of law is working well today. Although some mistakes may have been made in the investigation of terrorism, our services have made a good impression. I'm afraid we're mixing everything by the simple fact that the file is rediscovered by a young generation. For most of you, it's history. That's all I wanted to say. If you can't say, without being immediately attacked by people who have lived it and who say that I meant... I didn't mean anything. I simply wanted to confirm what the Attorney General has confirmed and stated in the press, what we find in both reports and what the best scientists have also said at some point. Deducing from this that nothing goes any more today, that our judicial police, that our prosecution offices, that our Justice do not work; of grace, let us make a distinction! It's brave to extend a prescription. We did. Together we have had the courage to do so knowing that if the truth is revealed, it can hurt. It's easier to bury, isn't it? To return for a moment to the reason: if we had not prolonged it, if you had not had this courage, it would have been said: "Now, Mr. B.'s brother comes to tell us that..." What would have been the result? We would have been accused of collectively burying something we couldn't have buried. We would have been told that we buried something we should never have buried. Let us be critical of ourselves, let us be tough on the past, let us be what we want to be, but we have made a good decision. After all, the revelations of the last few months have shown that this has been the ultimate effort to do it. But let us try not to fall into accusing language in respect of each other, for no one among us was much older than I was at the time; I look around and I do not believe it. We shouldn't say everything's wrong now. No, please. It must be possible for us to separate cases. We must be able to find guilty people and to discover the truth without having to charge ourselves permanently. Can we do better? Ja. More in us? Sure. Is that what we're gonna do? Anyway. That is why, as I have said, I am so grateful for the energy that has been released. Colleagues, you also know that this energy was not there two years ago. The terror we have experienced has been positive and negative, and it has taken us time to focus on this dossier, but at the same time has made us say: if that happened to us then... I remember my first intervention on television, on the acts of terror. I said at the time that I had seen that and I mentioned a number of cases. They weren't allowed to say that at the time. Terror had never occurred in Belgium. In the time of Verviers and the Bataclan, when people said that they had seen it, they said: Minister, I have never seen it, what are you coming up with? Now an entire generation has had to discover that we have seen that. Ladies and gentlemen, for the record, I am not saying that it has been terrorism, but it has been something strange. That's what everybody's saying now. And Mr De Valkeneer, for the record, said that there were such strange elements in the file that might perhaps be guilty of the acts, that this could explain possible manipulations. That's what he says. He seeks in the involvement, the possible involvement, of certain official persons, let me put it so that no one to stigmatize, a reason for possible manipulation. That's what he does. Is that wrong? That's not unlikely. Is that the only piste? No. Are there many others? Yes. But a court, or justice, that already in 1988 wanted to condemn the Borains but did not come to a conviction in assists and that 30 years later still wants to look for the truth, I have respect for that. If we can do this together, our rule of law will certainly have a great future. Thank you for everything you have said about the J Committee and the Supreme Court of Justice, Mrs Van Cauter, but I have already said that there is no reason to believe that justice has not worked properly in the case in the recent period. You quoted me, but you did not mention 'in the recent period'. I didn't want to cover the past. All I said was that the survey team that is now working on the file started working in 2010. These people. Their memory is just what it is. Everything else they have to read, as we have to read it, remotely. They weren't there when the previous investigative actions were made. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said it several times: no, Mr B. has not been questioned. I'll say that again: he hasn't been interrogated. But you obviously didn't hear that, because I have to say it again. No, he wasn't interrogated. I have also tried to explain why the people who are conducting the survey now believe that he has not been interrogated. You can reread that. I won't reinterpret it myself. Is that okay? No, that's not good. Is that unfortunate? Yeah, that's too bad. Mr B. might have gone to the Justice Department at that time. Or would his brother have gone to the Justice Department. That is why I am so pleased that we have taken this initiative, at a time when I am concerned about non-suspecto, because when our cabinet decided to ask the government to postpone the limitation period, we said straight away: we will now be working on an arrangement for regrets. Mr Verherstraeten, Mr Van Parys and you, and later also Mr Terwingen, have always remanded that proposal. After all, the College of Attorneys General said that it will not be easy to find out the truth with an ordinary investigation, but the sorry regime can make a big difference. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have to explain that the time was far from ripe, despite all our recommendations from your committee. I have no need to show off what my party has always said, but can I just say it anyway? We'll do it, too, if you'll let us. Mrs Lambrecht, checking justice with a Committee P or a Committee R is not an obvious fact, you understand. What I said earlier in connection with Mr Vuye's speech is as pertinent as it can be. It is not easy with regard to powers that have been made as independent as possible by the Constitution. Colleagues, the Constitution does not state that the intelligence services are independent. Nor does the Constitution state that the police are independent. But the Constitution states, and it also states in Montesquieu, that the most independent of all powers is the judiciary. This Parliament has included in the Constitution that the court is equally independent, except as regards criminal policy. That is the constitutional truth, colleagues. If you want to put a Committee J on that, I'm interested. Then I'll listen. However, the Supreme Court of Justice is a kind of fourth power. I do not want to shock the press present who exercises some control over it. However, that control is limited. I think this is normal in a rule of law of the classic type. What we are doing here today and what we are doing in committees of inquiry, etc., is turning the margins to make the rule of law work even better. Mr D'Haese, you spoke of contradiction. Mr Van Hecke, you also spoke about it. I am, of course, in favour of contradiction, but if the federal prosecutor says that it will work closely with and cooperate with the bailiffs of Charleroi, the Attorney General of Mons and the Attorney General of Liège, that means exactly what it means. I have said that there are three special expertises: research strategies, special detection techniques and victim assistance. It goes without saying, we discussed this for a very long time yesterday, that there will be a coordinator at the federal courthouse who will defend these three external expertises, so that everything is properly controlled within the federal court. But they will cooperate equally on the three points: research strategy, special detection techniques and victim assistance. I didn't say it was just about victim support. If there is any contradiction, it will initially come from there: a new eye that, trained like no parquet in this country, will look at the file. If you ask me exactly what they're going to do, well, should I know, Mr Van Hecke, I don't think I'd say it. That is exactly what we should not tell the outside world. At least that's how I understand the secret to the investigation. But I have a great deal of faith in that. I've had some very good experiences with the federal prosecutor's office over the last three years. I'm underlining very good experiences. I would not like to have the impression, even as far as the College of Attorneys General is concerned, that the impression would be that justice would not work properly today. Mrs Özen, I did not know that Mr B. was going to tell his brother that he was the Giant when the statute of limitations was being extended. I've only known about it very recently. The Prosecutor's Office itself became aware of this on 22 February 2017. It seems to me difficult to believe that information of 22 February 2017 could have had an influence on a decision taken by your parliament in October 2015. As far as students are concerned, I can't say much. Tactically, I was told to keep quiet about this. Several of you have asked questions about Committee P. I believe that he has only been involved since December 2013, particularly in relation to Ronquières' exhibits. The specific investigation into these exhibits is still ongoing. The victims know this investigation is taking place. So for now, I'm not going to say any more. We've already said too much. In this regard, I do not believe that the victims have been informed as far as possible, particularly by the press and some lawyers who are aware of the case. As far as the victims are concerned, it goes without saying that we will try to do this as well as possible. I made it as clear as possible in my statement in French just now what the difficult points are. First of all, people who have already received a remuneration give an additional remuneration, requires a legal extension of the time limit. You will have to help me because that deadline is only 10 years, if they have already received something. Secondly, if we want to do something about the costs of justice and above all about the costs of the lawyer, we have already been working on this in connection with the Terror Committee, we will also have to change the law for that. Thirdly, if we want to compensate the indirect victims who have suffered moral damage, then we will also have to resort to the law. Moral damage is even more difficult to prove than other damage. The Statute can also be discussed for me, but we must always ensure that we respect the principle of equality. This is one of the most difficult principles, one of the constitutionally most important and therefore not easy to respect as well as possible in such cases. The recognition as a terrorist attack is an interesting slope but it is not an obvious slope. I certainly don't want to see any controversy created around that. That would be unfortunate, but I understand that. I will do everything I can to make the victims feel better than they do now. Especially those who were very young then suffered a lot, much, much. Everyone else, that goes without saying. A general examination of the research carried out by the Committee on Energy, Research and Technology would require a great deal of energy. I hope, above all, that energy will be concentrated on the immediate surroundings of certain officials and police officers of that time, so that we can move forward rather than have to write a whole history. I think there'll be time for that later. The polygraph test is a technique known to the federal judicial police and the public prosecutor. I am convinced that this is one of the research techniques that can be applied in the coming period, Mrs Van Cauter. I believe that I have answered many of your questions in this way. As far as foreign investigators, the major experts, are concerned, there is always the possibility for the investigating judge to appoint such persons. If the question is whether there is a budget for this, then I will certainly respond positively. I myself will not hesitate to contact all possible experts without compromising the independence of the public prosecutor. As to what action to take on the file, it is an interesting question. As I have told you, every two months I will have a very thorough contact with the cells and I am quite prepared to report to you what has been said every time, as long as the secrecy of the investigation is respected. Mr Van Hees, you have asked a lot of very specific questions. The names you mentioned are obviously well known but I do not believe that my function allows me to answer your questions, especially since, for the moment, all the leads are followed and it is better not to complicate them by revelations of a non-initiated. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that I have answered the most important questions in this way. I want to listen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-31-54-commissie-ic760x.u17	Minister, you have said many things this afternoon for which we are grateful and grateful. I understand, above all, that being a Minister of Justice in a week like last week is a very difficult job. You've often had to dance on the line of justice. Sometimes that's a weak cord, then a tight cord. You have spoken of the recovery of energy that is the result of the things that have emerged. I believe that we must always remain critical and vigilant. In a self-respecting rule of law, an investigation into 28 deaths should never stop or lose energy. Together with you, shoulder-to-shoulder, we in Parliament want to see that the renewed kadans remain in the investigation. We would greatly appreciate it and appreciate it, and you are also offering it to the House that the reporting is also done. This is essential to get certain falsehoods out of the world and place things in the right context. We may be tough on the past, we must be realistic for the present, but we may also be hopeful for the future.
