ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you all to this exchange of views. Last week it was agreed to organise this meeting and it was asked to do so in the presence of the Prime Minister. He has, as you know, been excused for obligations abroad. So he can't be here. Last week, we adopted the formula of an exchange of views in order not to confine ourselves to the questions put by the authors, but to allow each group to intervene. This is an important debate in which everyone must be able to intervene. Soon all the groups will be able to say their minds. After the exchange of views, if there is still time, we will deal with the oral questions. Many oral questions have been addressed to the Minister. He can stay till 1:00. Questions will therefore be dealt with if possible. I would also like to remind you that next Tuesday, 26 September, the Bill on Unity of Careers will come to this committee and that we can expect the bill on Mixed Pensions on Tuesday, 3 October. Of course, the Minister will also present his policy paper in the coming weeks, which will outline his policy for the coming months. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we begin the exchange of views on the measures contained in the summer agreement concerning pensions for unemployed people over 50, as we agreed last week. Perhaps a few more Members would like to speak before I give the floor to the Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u2	Mr President, you have answered almost all the outstanding questions, and thank you for that. It is not a question of content; it is a matter for the Minister to decide. However, there is one more question that we asked last week, as you know, but which has not yet been resolved. We are asking for the text of the measure in question which the government has already sent to the Council of State. Last week there was no clarity on this and the text could contribute to greater clarity in the chaos. It is not a non-paper or a text that does not exist, because the text was approved by the government at first reading. The text exists, the Council of State is examining it. It would be useful to have that text available. I would have liked to have gotten the text in advance. That is not the case now. Nevertheless, pending the substantive debate, I would like to take up my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u3	It's a good thing you're asking the question. I also sent them to the Minister by letter, as agreed in committee. I suggest that we get the Minister's answer to the question, which in any case is pertinent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u4	Mr President, you say that this exchange of views is about the measures for the 50-plussers, but I assume that the questions asked will also be addressed, which will make the discussion a little wider.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u5	Are you referring to the questions added to the exchange of views? Of course, that's obvious. You will see that we have linked all the additional questions relating to the same period, the older unemployed and so on. I mean that we are not talking about, for example, the pension with points or mixed pensions. We can, of course, discuss the whole pension policy for hours, but I would like to focus on what caused some commotion during the summer, to say it carefully. The question to the government is to clarify this. That is the subject of this exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u6	Mr President, we must be very clear: we must limit the debate to what the debate is about, namely the 50-plussers. The other oral questions must be dealt with afterwards, unless they are related to the debate on those 50-plussers. Otherwise we will have a debate that goes all the way. If we are all going to put our questions, the 50 questions that are on the agenda, now during the debate, then it is no longer about what is currently under discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u7	Let us try to clarify things. Within 15 months, 100 000 people will retire. We should not debate what we are going to say. Let us give the floor to the Minister and try to clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u8	Ladies, I'm gonna give it a try. [[We have had an exchange of views and questions have been added to that exchange of views, as Mrs Temmerman said.]] And that is with the agreement of the cabinet. So that's what we're going to have the debate on later. Mrs Lanjri, you are talking about all the other questions that will follow. We agree that we are not going to bring it into the debate now. There's an agreement on that. So there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u9	Mr President, the communication about the content of this text sent to the Council of State was cacophonic! I hear you have made a request, but are we going to receive this text after the debate? We will receive the minister's version, but the N-VA will probably tell us in an hour that there is another version. For the serenity of the work, can we have the official text that has been sent? Otherwise, it will be word for word and we will not be there. Finally, what have we decided? Everyone's asking themselves the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u10	Mr Calvo asked the same question. The minister will answer that question. I give him the floor to initiate the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the unity of careers and the periods treated as such meets the will of the government to strengthen the link between effective work and the amount of pension. I would remind you that this is an objective, enshrined in the government agreement, which wants to follow up on the recommendations of the Committee on Pension Reform. Our pension system needs to reward work better. This is a question of justice for workers who have contributed to the financing of our pension system through social contributions on their wages. Firstly, the reform of the union of careers. This reform is the subject of a draft law which will be included on the Social Affairs Committee's agenda on 26 September. It aims at abolishing the limitation to unity of careers in favour of those who continue their professional activities after a 45-year career. All days worked will be eligible for the pension allowance from 1 January 2019, even if the employee has already reached the 45-year reference career. Since it is a matter of granting additional rights, this reform has a cost. For 2019, it is estimated at 1,630,000 euros and increases to an amount of 14,380,000 euros in 2023. As I said, this reform aims to strengthen the link between work and pension. As regards the reform of similar periods, which implements a decision taken at the October 2016 budgetary conclave, it is the subject of a royal decree, which essentially consists of two parts. The first takes the calculation on the basis of the actual minimum right instead of the last wage. The general principle is that the second period of unemployment and periods of unemployment with additional business (pre-pension) will, from 1 January 2019, be assimilated on the basis of the real minimum right, i.e. 23,841 euros and not the last salary, for all career years from 2017. The reform launched by the Di Rupo government, which had already decided to use the minimum entitlement for the calculation of pension rights during the third period of unemployment and periods of pre-pension before the age of 59. However, the draft royal decree provides for many exceptions to this principle. As far as unemployment is concerned, temporary unemployed (economic unemployment, technical unemployment, weather, force majeure), part-time workers, integration beneficiaries, active unemployed (FTA, etc.) are not covered.), port workers, artists. So there are a whole series of exceptions to unemployment. As regards pre-pensions, there are also a number of exceptions, since pre-pensions granted before 1 January 2017 are not covered, pre-pensions for restructuring firms, pre-pensions for firms in difficulty, pre-pensions for medical reasons, pre-pensions for heavy trades. All of these pre-pensions are not covered by the reform. In the draft decree sent to the Council of State, no age-related exceptions were included in the draft decree. However, I have always indicated that I am prepared to incorporate one or the other derogation or derogation provision if a consensus is required on a request to do so. At the Kern meeting on 14 September, an agreement was reached to introduce a derogation for persons who become unemployed from the age of 50. As far as they are concerned, only the third period of unemployment will generate pension rights on the basis of the real minimum right, except beyond 55 years. The Royal Decree has therefore been amended to take account of this agreement, but at the present stage it is still a draft decree. In fact, it still needs to be agreed by the government as a whole. As regards the limitation of assimilation to a full career, i.e. the second part of this decree, currently, pension rights cannot be granted for a career exceeding 14,040 days. This figure corresponds in fact to a full career of 45 years. As I have indicated, we have drafted a draft law abolishing this limitation for the years that have actually worked. The draft Royal Decree will therefore apply this limitation more strictly for periods of unemployment and pre-pension. As is currently the case, it will no longer be possible to take into account periods of unemployment and pre-pension beyond a full career instead of less advantageous periods of work. Indeed, there is no reason to grant additional pension rights on the basis of a period of unemployment or a bridge pension after a career of 45 years, since the person concerned already has a full career and can take up his pension. These are persons who are at least 60 years old and therefore already have a full career. In short, we are abolishing a form of social engineering which consists of extending a period of unemployment or a bridge pension to build up additional rights, although one has a full career and can take up his pension. For the second part of the reform of similar periods, two transitional measures are foreseen. We will continue to apply the old rules for those with a career of 14,040 days before September 1, 2017. Those who have reached this threshold, but who do not meet the conditions for early retirement – i.e. who cannot yet retire – will continue to build up entitlements until they can retire. I will add a few more details. For all other assimilated periods – incapacity for work, disability, injury at work, occupational disease, maternity leave, time credits, career interruption, thematic leave – the current rules remain applicable. The return on the measures provided for in the Royal Decree in terms of assimilation, in execution of the initial 2017 budget notifications, will amount to €9.48 million in 2019, reaching €57.85 million in 2022. The introduction of the exception for the second period of unemployment of job seekers aged 50 and over obviously implies a loss of yield, which will amount to 1.8 million euros in 2019, reaching 11.5 million euros in 2022. That's the situation. I repeat that the draft royal decree is only at the project stage. I have, of course, incorporated the results of the kern agreement of 14 September. However, this text must come back to the Council of Ministers and be the subject of a final agreement before being resubmitted to the Council of State. In other words, the project has not yet been endorsed by the government, even though it takes up the decisions that were taken during the September 14 kern. I would remind you that I will present the draft career unit to the Committee on Social Affairs. The draft royal decree on similar periods will, of course, be associated with the discussion of the draft since the two files are linked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for this introductory statement during the exchange of views. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we now hold the debate with all the groups that are asking for the floor, as I said earlier. I'll give the floor to the N-VA first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u13	Prime Minister, I am particularly pleased that you have mentioned in your explanation the context in which we are all doing this and why we are taking the pension measures. The starting point is that we in Belgium have a system whereby the working population makes payments to pay the pensions of those who are retired. However, this group of pensioners is getting bigger and bigger, and that is a luxury problem, because we live longer because of the quality of life, and in general we work less long, we study longer, we start working later, we stop too early and there are many periods during which we do not work. In the longer term, that is, of course, unsustainable. That has been known for a long time, and perhaps something should have been done about it for a long time. The current government is indeed taking a number of structural measures, which have no impact on this year's budget or next year's budget, but which are intended to cover the rising ageing costs of EUR 1 billion each year. If we do not, I see only two other solutions in the long term, and I think you agree with me that we should not go there. A first solution is to reduce pension amounts. However, we already have statutory pensions in Belgium that are among the lowest in Europe, so we do not think that is a good idea. The first pillar must be maintained and even strengthened, not reduced. Another solution is to allow the smaller number of workers to pay even more in order to bear the rising pension costs. However, there are already high taxes and wage costs in Belgium. It cannot therefore be the intention to put even more financial pressure on the working group and thus contribute. So the only solution is what you are doing now, Minister. You are providing solutions, first of all, by keeping people longer at work. That is what the debate is about today, and secondly, by taking measures concerning the periods treated. Preferably one-third of pension rights in Belgium are built up through similar periods. These are periods in which pension rights are built up, but they do not work and therefore do not contribute to social security. So that's money that has to come from somewhere else. We have to look at that, and so does the government. You have decided that there is still one year to be compared with the last wage during the periods treated. This will then be reduced if you are in unemployment or if you are on a supplementary pension, but it goes without saying that sickness, invalidity and motivated time credits will continue to be the same as the last wage. It has been discussed that this arrangement should be extended to the 50-plussers. It was finally decided within the government not to do so now and to first consult with the Länder on activation and to examine with the social partners how we can frame this in a broader approach. You know that the N-VA hopes that this measure will be extended at some point because we believe that there are some inconsistencies and that it will be cut off just at the age of 50. However, we are confident that this process will proceed and that we will hear about it. I had some questions, first and foremost about that exception for 50-plussers. Can you say something about the budgetary impact for next year and the subsequent years of the fact that we will not apply this adjusted scheme for treated periods to 50-plussers? I also have more specific questions about this. The result of this exception is that a senior member of a company who is 55 years old and who is in a bridge pension or in unemployment raises almost twice as many pension rights compared to his fellow worker of the same company who is still working at 55 years. I'd like to know if you think that's correct and social. After all, I have heard a lot of noises in that direction and I do not quite understand how we can explain this situation, which is real, to the people. I would also like to know a little more about the consultation with the Länder and with the social partners in the NAR. Has there been a timetable for this? Has a methodology been developed for this? Can you tell me more about that? Those were my questions for the part about the reform of the treated periods. I understand that the other themes will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u14	Mr President, we finally have a few details on the situation of these elderly unemployed people, after a crackdown that lasted several days, not to say several weeks. We have seen a pull in the majority. Before I go any further, I regret that it is only today that the minister is present while we were waiting for him last week. I also regret the Prime Minister's absence, despite the request made, but the reasons have just been explained. Above all, I regret the absence of the documents. As some of my colleagues have said, we do not have the draft text. Mr Minister, you have mentioned this, but it is always preferable to have both versions of the text in order to be able to compare finely the evolution of the text following the discussions in Kern. For our good information, I have a little question of detail, about timing. When do you think the draft order will be voted on? Based on your explanations and what we were able to read in the press, I note that you have been camouflaged, despite your best partner, the N-VA, and your best friend, Bart De Wever – to whom you also give gifts, we will have the opportunity to talk about it later. If this was not included in the basic text, it was your intention not to do so. Under pressure from opposition parties, trade unions and with the support of our rather exceptional theses of the Open Vld and CD&V, you have had to change. Like what, our fights sometimes serve something! You have withdrawn this part of the measure. Some considerations in this regard. First of all, it makes it clear that the goal was budgetary. It hurts you to see a loss of 2 to 11 million profits as a result of this change that is not voluntary, as you mentioned earlier, but is being imposed within the government. At this point, allow me to make a parenthesis. Stop saying pensions are unpayable! It is a choice of society, a political choice about the part of the created wealth that we devote to our elders. It's not impeccable as you keep repeating. On the other hand, you say that unemployed people over the age of 50 only have to return to a job after a year and that if they fail to do so, they are rotten. What a lack of knowledge of the labour market! Many studies show that after 45 years it is becoming increasingly difficult to find a job. In doing so, direct targeting is really a matter of ignorance of the situation or total contempt for them. In my view, this is, in fact, more of a matter of total contempt for job seekers, for those who are unemployed. We meet here in the face of a logic of double grief. These people found themselves unemployed. You rarely choose to lose your job. One rarely chooses to be more than a year unemployed. But you decide to punish people in this age group, from the second period of unemployment (after one year), who will only be able to benefit from the minimum right. You had to adjust your speech and your draft decree for those over 50, but not for those under 50. For the latter, this double penalty therefore remains applicable. Minister, I would like to know how many people will be affected by this measure. In either interview, you mentioned that there were few people who paid more than €2,000. According to the statistics, 90% of workers earn more than 2,000 euros gross! In doing so, your measure may affect many workers. I would therefore like to know the number of people potentially affected. My concern remains great, because you do not like this camouflage; what I understand; no one appreciates this kind of thing. I fear, therefore, that your revenge will be brutal, through your other measures. Because you still have to find, if the figures announced are correct, more than 300 million on the backs of pensioners or future pensioners. I do not understand the phrase mentioned by the President of the N-VA, stating that it was a momentary withdrawal. Is the decision not final? Can you tell me when the decision will really be made at the government level? Once this is done, it will be better consolidated for those over 50 years of age. So I remind you of my concerns. First, what does "temporary withdrawal" mean? Secondly, where are you going to find the savings that are still needed, which are increased by this exception, if I can hear you correctly? Could you clarify the importance of this and indicate the measures that are still in your drawers? On the aspect of full careers and years beyond the age of 45 for people who would be unemployed, years which would no longer count for the calculation of the pension, a controversy arose over the figures put forward by the FGTB on the impact, which would prove to be relatively heavy for some people. You have described these numbers as fanciful; what you often do when the numbers are not from you. If so, can you give us your estimates? We will then be able to check the accuracy or not. Finally, how many people will be able to benefit from the abolition of the career unit? That, Mr. Chairman, is the few questions that come to me as a result of the Minister's intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u15	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister for his briefing and for his clarification. It is important to highlight the fact that this government and this majority confirm their objective of always increasing the value of working periods in the calculation of pensions. The link between the actual career and the pension should be strengthened. This is one of the objectives of the government agreement, which intends to implement, in particular, a recommendation from the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040, which proposes various reforms. It is clear that the pension system needs to reward work better. It is a matter of justice for workers who have contributed, through social contributions from their wages, to the financing of our pension system. The aim of this reform, which is the subject of a forthcoming bill, is to remove the limitation of the career unit in favour of those who pursue a professional activity after 45 years of career. All working days will, as you said, Minister, be taken into account in the calculation of the pension as of January 1, 2019, even when the worker has already completed the reference career. This is an important element for the future of workers. I want to say that the very philosophy of pension reform, as a whole, is ultimately to reward work better, and we can only encourage you to do so. Improvements need to be made in the case of older workers. This is important for the balance and survival of our social security system, and therefore for our pension system. The valorisation of working periods is an undeniable step in this direction and we support it. We will therefore be extremely attentive to the opinion which the National Labour Council will shortly give on the policy of activation of the over 50s. We also hope that consultations with the Regions will be fruitful so that effective measures can be taken to resolve these problems quickly and effectively. As our Prime Minister pointed out, it is important to give those who have lost a job a chance to have more capacity to find a new one, even when we are over 50 years old. I have a question that has already been asked by Mr Spooren. Do you have a more precise agenda for consultations with the NTC and the Regions on the re-employment of older workers and pension aspects?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the pension debate is not an easy debate, on the one hand, because it is technical, on the other, because it affects a lot of people. Surely those who are close to retirement are working on it. The pension means an income for people once they are retired. While the pension period used to cover between 5 and 10 years, an income is required today for 10, 20 or even 30 years. People wonder whether or not they will live with it and how much more they need to put aside. It is precisely these considerations that make the debate so difficult. That is why we must ensure that we communicate carefully. I believe that we all have a responsibility here, from the majority but also from the opposition. When we leave balloons, we worry people. If we throw something into the media that is not yet certain, we worry people. Moreover, we forget to say that nothing has yet been decided. Often one simply gives one's opinion, but one has to communicate it in that way. The main issue in the pension debate is how to keep people working longer. This is also the solution which the Planning Bureau puts forward as a priority. It is precisely in the light of this that the government, the majority, takes a number of decisions. That is why we strive to reward works effectively, compared to non-working. However, we do not want to abandon solidarity, including in pensions. We maintain solidarity when it comes to the periods treated as such or the unity of career. We do not abandon people, and we think that is important. That is why the debate on working, not working and unemployment also covers the debate on long-term unemployment. The question arises as to whether it is correct that a person who has worked for a long period of his life is entitled to a low wage, and I am referring only to employees and not to self-employed persons, because they are different schemes; they receive less pension than a long-term unemployed person or someone who has worked for five years and subsequently becomes unemployed. We do not want that, and that is why, during the previous legislature, the equivalence of the third period was reduced. Now we are building on that and thinking about how we can take that into account for the second period and how we can reward who works more. Today's debate is about those who are over 50 years of age and want to get back to work, but do not get a chance to do so, even though the employment opportunities for 50+ have increased. Indeed, 50-plussers often go on interviews, but rarely receive answers to their letters, or an answer under the skin that they are not suitable, which means that they are too old. We cannot hold those jobseekers responsible for this. It is therefore important to take care of our 50-plussers in the context of treated periods. We must take this into account not only in the debate on activation, where there are still possibilities, but also in the debate on the measure envisaged. I agree with the questions about how many people are involved? What's the cost? What does the further timing look like? In the discussion on the unity of career, too, there is a demand under the skin for better rewarding work than not working. The current scheme is calculated on a career of 45 years. Those who have a full career of 45 years or a few years longer will always receive a calculation in 45/45th, but where appropriate the better years will be taken into account. Today it is said that it is not the intention to stop at 45, so that the years on top of the 45th year of work are honored, if there is effective work in those years, but also when the person concerned is ill or takes up time credits during that period. These equivalences continue to count after 45 years. That's how I always understood it. However, a transitional period is foreseen for this new measure. Minister, if I have understood you correctly, you say that the years before 1 September remain under the old system. Another existing scheme is that those who were unemployed remained unemployed until the age of 65. The same was true for the bridge pension. I didn't think that rule would be retained. People are given the opportunity to retire early, so they are not obliged to stay longer in unemployment, but can make a choice. They are important transitional measures. At the same time, Minister, one question remains for me. Do you have a view of the cost? You have already indicated the cost of the new system, but I would have liked to know how many people have worked for more than 45 years today, so they are 46/45th or 47/45th in the current system, and for whom the best years will be taken out in future. This is either a high price or negligible cost, so that we can keep the existing system and reward those who have worked longer. Hence my question as to whether you can see the cost. Finally, I think it is particularly important that today, Minister, there should be clarity about the forthcoming proposals and drafts as well. As members of both the majority and the opposition stress that pensions must also be secured for our children and grandchildren and that we want to work on this together, we must create a strong basis for this. I therefore call on everyone to show the necessary serenity in the debate. I think that's as important as the rest of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u17	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are sitting here today to clarify what has been decided in the summer agreement. We have four questions about this. You are communicating that there are only two of them, and I shall come back to Mrs Becq's speech on communications, on which you will clarify for the public. We have a letter here that you sent as an answer to a concerned citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, today there are 100 000 people who are going to retire within 15 months and who do not really know when they will be able to retire and how much they will get. Minister, your explanation is not entirely one-on-one. You say to the concerned citizen, who is asking what the situation is now, and you refer to the e-mail: "For the calculation of pensions, the longer periods of unemployment and the periods of early retirement, the second period of unemployment and the individual bridge pensions will be treated on the basis of the minimum years." That's for sure, you say. Now I hear you say 10 minutes ago that the regulation which you decided on 14 September and which makes exceptions for the 50-plussers will still have to be submitted to the Council of State and that you will not make a final decision until after the text is returned to the Council of Ministers. You will tell the public that the decision has been taken on this matter. You still need to learn a few things about clear communication. Secondly, it is also definitively decided that such periods will no longer be treated as a full career. So after 45 years, the equivalences are limited. Indeed, as Mr Daerden points out, you have managed to camouflage for quite some time that the 50-plussers are no longer an exception. The commotion about this measure and the actions of the trade unions and the opposition have forced you to adjust, but we are still not sure, because the proposal has to come back again. In addition, the government has already voiced its disagreement with this and that it is a provisional measure, whereby 50-plussers are provisionally exempted. The question is, of course, how long will it take? We have actually already received an answer to this, because Mr Bart De Wever has said that the measure will be reviewed before 2018. Mrs Becq, you are talking about clear communication and a serene debate. I fully agree with that, but then there should be clear communication from the Minister and the Council of Ministers, because, Mr Minister, after your explanation, we are still not sure. After today's explanation, the 100 000 people involved are still not sure when they can retire and how much pension they will get. My first question: how long is provisional? I have a second observation. You have stated that it is also not certain that the measure will apply for the time being, because the text must be returned to the Minister. Thirdly, in 2018, the measure will be reviewed anyway, but on the basis of which, despite all that has been said here and what has preceded it? Furthermore, I have just one question about the decision on mixed careers and the 45-year career. Colleagues of the majority, and certainly of CD&V, listen carefully. In the future, you will start working for someone who has worked for 44 years and is put on the street after 44 years, giving him a similar period for one year, two years, calculating the pension for the first 45 years. This means that the person will have less pension, despite the 44-year career, than someone who has started at 20 years and has worked for 43 years. For that person, the calculation will be done at the last 45 years. Mr Spooren asked earlier whether that was socially just. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but these are the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u18	It is about 45 years, ma'am, and you are giving examples of 44 years!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u19	Someone who starts working at 18, has worked 42 years and is 60 years old. When he is put on the street after 42 years of service, he cannot retire, because he is only 60 years old. He gets five years of unemployment benefit. His pension is no longer calculated on those last 45 years, but on that first. He started at 18, which means low pay. A person who starts working at the age of 20, works for 40 years and is put out on the street at the age of 60 will, since he has to work until the age of 65 and has not worked for 45 years, be calculated on the last 45 years of his career for those last five years. So he's gonna have more pension, despite the fact that he hasn't worked for so long. By the way, Mrs Becq, you have already pointed out, like Mr De Croo, that this absolutely needs to be revised. Minister, I would like to make this clear. What exactly is this about? Will you preserve this injustice, especially for those who have had a long career? I would like to point out that people with a long career are often people who do very heavy physical work, for example in construction. There are still a lot of people in this sector who start working at 18 years. There are even people who started at 16 years. Just like these people you will punish with this measure. I would also like to ask you, Minister, exactly what was decided. We need to save money. Longer working for pension would start in 2019. We have heard, but perhaps you can clarify, that you will increase the number of days worked in a year to include this year in the calculation of the pension. You're going to bring this from 1/3 to 1/2. Is this true? Is this in the Summer Agreement or not? Minister, when we talk about injustice, the following is a textbook example. Is the government's decision to abolish the solidarity contribution for the highest pensions maintained? You can't misunderstand me. There are a lot of pensions, especially in the middle, where this solidarity contribution can best be abolished. I'm talking about the kindergarten teacher, the fireman, the policeman and so on. Mr Spoorten, when you speak of injustice, it seems completely unfair to me that the man who started working in construction at 18 years old should be given less pension while the highest pensions of the highest civil servants, the judges and ourselves should be abolished the solidarity contribution. Minister, I would also like to remind you that the legislation on the solidarity contribution stipulates that this contribution should be used in the future to increase the lowest pensions. The abolition of this solidarity contribution would therefore be totally contrary to what was decided at that time. Mr President, I would like to say a few words to Mrs Becq and Mr Spoorten. Of course, we need a global approach in the pension debate. I have already said that in almost every debate. The problem is, however, that the current government does not. This government takes a measure here and there, but never with a view to a global vision of the future, always on the basis of a savings logic and a budget that needs to be put in order. The best example is that the members of the majority and the minister here say that longer work must be rewarded, including in retirement. However, one of the first measures you have taken is the abolition of the pension bonus. The pension bonus rewarded longer working in the pension. So your logic doesn't add up at all. Then be honest and say that the logic of your pension reform is only a saving logic, but without a vision of the future. There's no global plan. At least I've never seen a global plan here. Social dialogue is also taking place to a limited extent. You always talk about the Pension Committee or the report of the Pension Committee. However, these are two pillars: there must be a global plan for the distant future and broad support must be created in social dialogue. However, Minister, you are putting aside decisions taken by the social partners, which they take twice, next to you. As an example, I mention the decision that the 45-year career should not play in raising minimum pensions. I could give you more examples. You say you want to secure pensions. Then it is completely incomprehensible that you would increase the highest pensions in the future and that would decrease from the lowest pensions. Mr Spoorten, I hope you will agree with me that it would be totally unheard of and inappropriate that we should not have to pay the solidarity contribution that Members pay in the future. Minister, I have asked a number of questions. I hope you can give people a very clear answer. In addition to the fact that there is indeed a need for a global pension reform, which you are not taking care of, clarity is essential for people who are about to retire. You write letters in which you say that everything has been decided in a certain way, but you say today that there is still a.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's not how we get there. This is not due to the serenity or communication of the opposition, Mrs Becq, but to the communication of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u20	Mr Minister, I recognize very strongly in certain things that have been said, including things that my fellow Members Mr Spoorsen and Mr Becq have said. They rightly say that it is a very important and not an easy debate. Mr Spooren is right to say that it is important to work on the contribution, the number of years worked and the final result. I agree with Mrs Becq who says that the issue of pensions is a highly sensitive issue, which we must deal with in a serious way. That is why I do not understand how you have worked over the past month, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I do not understand, Minister, why you have so far refused to share the texts which could lead to a much fairer and much more open substantive debate. Especially on a theme such as pensions that affects many countrymen, it is important to ensure honesty and clarity about the big and small letters. So I really don't understand that approach. That is not a question of left or right, of wanting to work longer or not. This way of working is almost inhuman. Allowing people to spend more than a month in the dark about their near future retirement is really unacceptable. Mr President, I will confine myself to the elements of the Summer Agreement. The measure which has been the most debated is the one for the 50-plussers. Mr Becq says that it must stop leaving balloons on. In this case, it is not a question of a balloon. There are many balloons in the Michel family but this was not a balloon. When Vincent Van Quickenborne, the chairman of this committee, explained that measure on television on 4 August, when it was brought out, it was not a balloon. That was written in black and white in the then version of the notifications of the Summer chord. In fact, even a few months ago, the government decided to do so. That measure has been decided. That wasn't a balloon, that wasn't a party position, that was a government decision. When the Minister of Pensions sent out a communiqué on 4 September, a month later, saying that there were no exceptions for 50-plussers, it was not a balloon but a government decision. That measure existed, Mr Becq. All parties of this government intended to punish older jobseekers three times, after losing their job and their difficult position on the labour market by reducing their pension a third time. That wasn't a balloon, that was a plan of this government. It is a good thing that Phara de Aguirre, John Crombez and Gwendolyn Rutten have helped to revive that debate after August 4th. It is good that this measure now seems to be under threat. However, Mr Bacquelaine, I would like to make this clear at least 100 percent more clearly than you have been so far. Mr Spooren said that they are not really so happy with this withdrawal. What does that mean? The Weaver said it was a temporary measure. So my first question is can you please say today that this measure is definitely off the table? We in this country are not going to punish people who are struggling in the labour market, who have lost their jobs for the third time. That's my first question. I have a second question, Minister of Pensions. In the notifications of the Summer Agreement, the two versions, this measure amounts to EUR 20 million as a budgetary return in 2019. That's in version 1, the version-Van Quickenborne and that's in version 2, the version-Rutten. Both state that this measure will yield EUR 20 million. What is written in both versions is that there is still a multitude of pension savings decided in the Summer Agreement. Not just the 20 million, but additional €52 million in 2018 and additional € 253 million in 2019. That 20 million euros went over 2019, but there is already 52 million euros savings in pensions in the Summer Agreement in 2018. In 2019, this will amount to 273 million euros in pension savings in the Summer Agreement. My second question is, then, what does the 273 million euro mean? What measure do you still have in store? Which pensioners will be affected? After all, EUR 273 million will not be saved by postponing the renovations in the Pension Tower. This is about 273 million euros less pension for certain countrymen. Thirdly, Mr Becq, you say it is a communication problem. No, it is first and foremost a problem of substance. We are talking about social choices that we may or may not make. If we look at the 273 million euros, Mrs Becq, there is much more savings in the Summer Agreement than, for example, in the famous tax on securities accounts. The debate we are having today is not only a debate on communication, but also a debate on who is contributing in this difficult budgetary context and who is not, who is contributing a lot and who is contributing less. So, Minister Bacquelaine, my third question is how do you explain that? What harsh social vision is at the root of those decisions where you get more money from people who are already struggling, from pensioners, after decades of labour market efforts, than from people who have securities bills? The big trophy on tax equity is smaller than the package of pension measures and pension savings. So it is not just a question of communication, but also of content and of social choices that are not ours. My fourth point is that the Bacquelaine method does not work at all. A pension minister who has to follow on his iPad what the nuclear cabinet decides on pensions, and then sends out a communiqué about it a month and a half later to explain the decision, which does not work. A topic such as pensions should be managed in a more serious way. A method by which measures are taken every six months in pensions is not correct and is detrimental to acceptance. Every communiqué you send out creates uncertainty. In every communiqué you send out, people are looking for justice and a global vision. There is no such global vision. You're not in the cockpit yet. I would ask you to let go of the dossier and, above all, to put the independent Pension Commission back to work. My fourth question is therefore to change the method. The pension debate is a very fragile one. There is a need to find a basis for support, and this is not done with some improvisation and some political magic. That is what we have to do with a global vision. My question is whether you are prepared to change that method and to explicitly withdraw it? I expect a clear answer to the questions about the 20 million and 273 million. Those measures need to be removed. Are you willing to press the pause button and start working in a different way? It should be the ambition of all of us to have, at the end of this legislature, a global vision of pensions and careers, preferably even of majority and opposition. The Bacquelaine method will not do that. The Bacquelaine method will not provide that support. The method-Bacquelaine and the method-Michel only create more chaos and uncertainty. On a number of points, you can eliminate this chaos today, but you have to have the courage to deal with things fundamentally differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u21	Mr.Minister, you have given a number of points today, but it must be noted that in recent months there has been total political confusion on the part of the government. We heard everything and its opposite. You, too, have said everything and its opposite in the space of a few days. I am afraid that this confusion is not over because you said, at the end of your presentation, that "this draft royal decree for assimilations was not endorsed by the whole government". Every word counts! Behind this sentence, of course, there is the position of Mr. De Wever, who clearly said at the exit of the Kern that this file was simply "reported". I fear that confusion will persist, and that is quite emblematic of this government, because in the area of pensions, you work in successive layers without any consistency. On the other hand, and this is even more serious, you bring confusion to citizens. It's total! Citizens are now concerned about these measures announced in a total cacophony because a number of them will be directly affected. Minister, after this confusion, your responsibility is to be able to inform all citizens about the concrete impact of these measures. I cannot imagine – if you are serious and responsible – that you have not made projections for the people concerned. I ask you to make available to Parliament information on the impact of the decisions taken in this draft royal decree on the persons concerned. You had to calculate that impact with the Pension Administration. As regards assimilation, you say that there will be a derogation for people over 50 years of age, while adding that there is no agreement, that it is not endorsed by the whole government. In addition, I note that you are planning a retroactivity on January 1, 2017. Again, this means that they will no longer be 50 years old. Indeed, as long as this project and the derogation are approved or not, they will in the meantime be at least 51 years old. This means that they will have much more than 50 years of age. This retroactivity raises questions. Legally, that is very particular. In the derogations, you plan thematic leave, maternity leave. You are presenting this derogation almost as a victory. All that would be missing! It would have been a good idea to remove assimilations for "family" thematic leave or maternity leave, to take only two examples. But nothing surprises me with this government anymore! I have no doubt that some would have thought of eliminating assimilations for pregnancy or for parental leave. Derogation also, you say, for heavy trades. You also mentioned the workers in the ports. Minister, you have decided to go beyond social consultation on a whole series of issues. On the other hand, as far as penitibility is concerned, you say that you are waiting for social consultation. It must be noted that you do not hesitate to take hard measures at the level of government. On the other hand, on "penibility", you present this word as being magical saying: "We will take account of penitibility." But in the meantime nothing is done about it. To say that we respect social consultation in terms of penitibility is a bit easy especially when we do not respect it for harsh measures. That's not right! Of course, you would have done better to reach a general and coherent agreement to achieve a balance that does not affect the citizens too much. In this case, when you refer to heavy trades, do you refer to the current list of heavy trades? What is the status of the discussions on penitibility? Will these functions be affected by the derogation? These are all issues that need to be addressed. The government's guideline is to strengthen the relationship between work and pension. I can express my agreement on this. For those who refuse acceptable work, I can hear that there is a problem in terms of assimilation. However, it should be recalled that the number of jobs available is far less than the number of jobseekers. Is it worth noting that many people are willing to work, but do not find work? They are therefore subject to double penalties. As you know, the consequences will be much heavier in Brussels and Wallonia. With regard to career unity and the creation of additional rights if you continue to work after 45 years of career, your measure is positive. We can therefore support it. That said, it is important to be extremely vigilant in this approach. This provision is valid, but provided that the level of pensions is sufficient. However, it is well known that the replacement rate in Belgium is one of the lowest on a European scale. Ultimately, this system does not encourage people to work beyond 45 years of career in order to form a decent pension. This poses a risk to the system. We can't put that on to get a decent pension. Otherwise, that would be unacceptable. Personally, I am convinced that many people can agree to work a little longer. But it would be on condition that this extension of the career takes place under acceptable conditions, not at the same rate as the rest of the professional career, but with quantitative and qualitative adjustments at the end of the career. Minister, as I have already told you on a number of occasions, you will only be able to convince the public of the need to work longer, to have 45-year-old careers, if there is a coherent dynamic rather than successive layers that make the citizens not know what sauce they are going to eat. You can only make it a success if there is support from the population. The method you have used since the beginning of this legislature does not in any way lead to popular support. Today, there is total political confusion in this government, and total confusion among citizens. No one's found there anymore. You have not provided an impact assessment for the persons concerned of the measures decided. All of this is not conducive to the desire of citizens to work longer to achieve a full career. I would point out that this would only be on condition that you work on qualitative and quantitative end-of-career adjustments. Today, you didn't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I think the problem is not so much at the level of communication. I do not believe in the misunderstandings that would have taken place between the parties of the majority. At the end of the summer deal, you all agreed that there would be no exception for those over 50. The statements were clear from the beginning of August. I quote our chairman, Vincent Van Quickenborne, who has a certain expertise. He has been Minister of Pensions and the debate in depth understands: "In the Summer Agreement, it is decided that the pension of 50-plussers who are unemployed for more than one year will be calculated on the basis of a minimum annual entitlement. For those who still doubt, Gwendolyn Rutten said on 3 September that the rule applies to everyone and so basically the 50-plussers are also included. You yourself, Minister, are not really clear in your communication, because you said: 'The drafts of the regulatory texts are currently being examined by the Council of State. In their present form, these drafts do not provide for an exception for unemployed people over 50 years of age. You sent a text. Then you called him back to rework him completely. You claim that there was confusion, that we didn't know exactly what stage we were at. You introduced a text – I hope you got an agreement – and then you pulled it out to rework it! The government's going back. It's worth saying. I can see the government's calculation. You're making a summer deal. The people have gone on vacation; the parliament no longer meets and you go in catini without being noticed. But it didn't work and you're wrong! The opposition parties, the unions did their work and asked you about your texts. When I was not a parliamentarian, I was told: "You'll see, Raoul, they always do the same thing. They pass all in the summer when people are not attentive, when they do not follow, that there is no social activity". I didn't believe them! I doubted their theory! I told them: "But no, they will not dare, so they do not function." No? The last plenary session of Parliament was adjourned on 20 July at 19.52 p.m. and an agreement was reached on the 26th saying that no one would notice anything! Minister, that's a mistake! And this is not a communication problem. Sorry, colleagues from CD&V, it could have been, but it didn't get underneath. And this discussion is about that. This government has a great fear, one that can be demonstrated that pensions will decrease. Very agile, the government is trying to say that those who work more will earn more. But that's not true! Mr Spooren just gave the example of a particular company with a framework and an employee. Well, what that employee wants, Mr Spoorten, is to enjoy more retirement. What's he got to do with the box getting less pension? What you are all doing today is reducing pensions for those who no longer work for reasons a+b, but not raising the pension at all for those who continue to work beyond 65, 66 and 67 years. That's the government's problem. You think people want an increase in their pension. What do they have to do with reducing pensions for those who do not want to continue working? You cannot prove that I am wrong, minister: in the case of the status quo, if someone decides to keep the same career because he is tired, tired because he works in this one of the most productive economies in the world that Belgium is, he will lose money. Each time, the opposition manages to show you that in case of status quo, you remove the pension bonus. You are taking a set of measures here for pre-pensioned comrades who have the right to blow a little bit, and you are reducing their pension. This is the problem of the perception of this government: people are increasingly angry. The reason you're taking a step backwards now is that you felt something was happening during the month of August. Something is happening in the population. People are understanding that this government does not want their good at all, but continues to cut off their pensions. I will discuss one last important element before going into detail. Minister, we are in one of the countries where pensions are the lowest in Europe, according to our study department. I'll remind you of the numbers. The replacement rates, as my colleague Catherine Fonck said, are as follows. A man retiring in 2017 receives €1,195.48 per month. In Germany, it receives EUR 1 300.64 per month. In France, 1 679 euros and 1 771 euros, for an identical career! I'm going to be told that we're working more in other countries, but no: I'm talking about the same careers. The replacement rates are among the lowest in us. The question that people are looking for a solution today is "how do I increase my pension?", and not "how will we reduce those of other categories of the population who, for reasons chosen in life or not, will not have a replacement income?" My questions on assimilation are therefore very clear. We have still not understood what the government's final decision was. Is it in the fridge? Is it in the freezer? As far as I'm concerned, it could be in the trash. Could you tell us when the government will decide? That's relatively clear. Some propose that the decision be taken in 2020 for implementation from 2025. However, the N-VA talks about 2018. What is it now? Is that the end of the debate and will it not come back or will there be another debate in this legislature on the exception of the 50-plussers? I ask the Minister to take a stand. Minister, as far as the career unit is concerned, I take the figures that the ABVV and the FGTB have published. They took the numbers of your administration to complete their study. They calculated that with this measure, people who started working at 14, 15 or 16 years old and have a pension of 833 to 1,041 euros gross would lose 113 euros. Those with a pension of 1 042 to 1 249 euros would lose 65 euros, those with a pension of 1 250 to 1 449 euros would lose 93 euros and those with a pension of 1 450 to 1 750 euros would lose 104 euros. These figures were published by the FGTB on the basis of the figures received from your administration. You said these numbers were wrong. Minister, can you demonstrate that the figures put forward by the FGTB and the ABVV that clearly indicate pension reductions are incorrect? Finally, on the budgetary side, we can no longer see very clearly. You had announced 225 million pension savings. Where do the other economies come from? You're telling us that people won't lose money, but we're saving money. Where did they come from?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u23	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the floor briefly because this debate must be held. First of all, I would like to talk about the moment, about four or five months ago, when this debate began in plenary. Suddenly, in Wallonia, one of two friends, who had worked for 40 years, received a pension of EUR 925 while the other, who had been unemployed for 33 years, received a pension of EUR 1 135. I raised this at the time, and almost all my fellow Members, from both the majority and the opposition, said that this is absolutely unjust. There was even a chairman of an opposition party who said to Linda De Win that this was not possible. When one wants to solve the problem, everything becomes less obvious. Most people then ask to give everyone more so that the problem is solved. That's what the PVDA is proposing. Give everyone a lot more, double the spending, and that's how we solve everything. However, the question is how this problem can be solved effectively. The answer to this is actually given by the principle that work should count more for the pension than not work. This was put into effect for the first time by a previous government. I know this relatively well because I had the honour to carry out reforms as Prime Minister of Pensions. At that time, we decided to make the unemployment benefit for the long-term unemployed, under 50 years old, degressive. This would also mean that they would receive less pension. This was decided with the socialists in the government, with Mr Di Rupo as Prime Minister and Mr Vande Lanotte as Deputy Prime Minister. At that time, we decided together to give less than 50 years of long-term unemployed people a pension. What has this government decided? In addition to the third period, for people under 50 years of age, the second period will also be reduced and this will also lead to fewer pensions. That is in line with what the previous government has done. The big question that arises is what one does with the 50-plussers. It is true that the government has had a discussion. Indeed, it is quite exceptional that there should be a debate between a first and a second reading, in addition to the technical discussions with a view to the adoption of the Council of State. It has been said that we will look at the situation of the 50-plussers. The situation is indeed that the chances of employment for 50-plussers are more difficult. Are they out of the question? Absolutely not. Some say: 3 to 4 %. Quod non, 45% of the 50-plussers find work again within the year. Is that a lot? No, that's not enough. Something must be done about this. That is why the government has decided to be the first to use them and activate them. That is why, in the context of federalism, I hope, with the Regions, with the NAR, it will now draw up a plan to ensure this. That's what's needed. Why? The situation in our country is dramatic in certain places, in two different meanings. Let me give you the example of my province of West Flanders. We have an unemployment rate of 3.7 %. This is one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe. That is the level of Bavaria, to give an innocent example. Hainaut, the province next to West Flanders, has an unemployment rate of 13% to 14%. There's a lot of 50-plussers in there. The challenge we face is how we can give these people a job, a future, how we can activate them so that they can find work. This government must do so now, together with the Regions, because activation is a regional competence, and also with the social partners. In that sense, that is a good decision. The question that arises then is whether the KB is provisional or not. Anyone who knows how a KB works must know the answer to that. Firstly, a KB has a first reading and a second reading. If a KB is ahead, then it is customary to discuss it in the nuclear cabinet. If agreement is made in the nuclear cabinet, it will be carried out by the Council of Ministers. Point on the line. When will that be carried out? After consulting the Council of State and other matters, I suppose, but before the end of the year. The KB will have its final version before the end of the year, which will retain the exception of the 50-plussers. Some people ask for how many years. Well, Mr Hedebouw, unlike Venezuela, royal decisions here are not perpetual. If, therefore, a government considers that a royal decree should be amended at some point, it will be amended. That will happen when parties in a government feel that an adjustment is needed, not when one or two parties ask for it, but in unanimity. That's democracy. It may even be part of the debate we will have following national elections. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to my conclusion. The communication that was made wasn't the best. I admit that. Some say here, however, that we must stop scaring. Mrs Temmerman, your party chairman told us yesterday in a television studio that the solidarity contribution to the judges and to the highest pensions will be abolished. He's a manifesto liar. After all, ladies and gentlemen, with this government we are doing what we have already done under Verhofstadt III, namely to raise the threshold of solidarity from EUR 2 200 gross per month to EUR 2 600 gross per month, but not to amounts between EUR 3 000 and EUR 6 000. They will still pay the full amount of solidarity contribution. Your chairman knows that, Mrs. Temmerman, but he tells the manifesto differently in the studio. Secondly, today I read in De Standaard that for a fully worked year the number of days worked will not be 104, but more than 200. That is literally in De Standaard today, whispered by sp.a in the journalist's ear. Nothing could be further from the truth! That's total, obviously incorrect. This government didn't decide that. So, Mrs Temmerman, if you're here to charge us with putting an end to the scaremongering and the faults of communication, I'm telling you to look into your own bosom and stop scaring people yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u25	I'm allowed to speak, aren't I? Mr Calvo, I would like to say this to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u26	At least you're better today than in the news of August 4th. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u27	Mr Calvo, the interesting thing is that you didn't tell us about your alternative. You also made a lot of noise that summer about the famous basic pension of Green. The basic pension, that's heaven on earth. Everyone gets a pension of EUR 1 500, if I'm not mistaken. What you didn't tell us is how we'll pay for it. According to a first calculation, this seems to generate 7 billion extra expenditure. One should dare to promise that. What you're not telling us is that for the 2.5 million hard-working Belgians who save their pensions, you are abolishing the deduction and making them pay 300 euros more tax per year. You didn't tell me that either, but it's the reality. If you propose pension measures and require others to obtain their texts and such, that may be a legitimate requirement, I support that, and I have the courage to put your own figures on the table as well. Then do it. To propose an undecided alternative that is heaven on earth, you know that it is not politically feasible. That, by the way, undermines the credibility of politics, Mr Calvo. Minister, justice on pensions does indeed mean giving the lowest pensions a little more and asking for the highest pensions too. Colleagues, this government also does that. The minimum pensions have been raised by this government for employees and self-employed persons, in proportion to EUR 89 per month for employees and EUR 151 per month for self-employed persons. Mr Calvo, the highest pensions, the supplementary occupational pensions, will be doubled. This means that more will have to be paid by the companies for deposits of more than EUR 30 000 per year. These are the highest pensions, which will therefore have to pay more. That's what this government does, that's justice in pensions. I think that is the way to make things quite clear. My fellow Members, pensions are a complex issue, as Mrs Becq has already said. It's a complex matter that we have to deal with carefully. One thing is clear: in order to keep pensions fair and affordable, we must continue to reform. That's the only way. Reforming does indeed mean making people work longer, giving people pay for work and also giving pensions to work. That's what people expect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u28	Mr Van Quickenborne, I will try not to contradict you! First of all, I would like to take stock of a number of things. When I speak about pensions, I am always extremely measured and cautious because I think it is irresponsible to make rumours about the development of pension schemes. Indeed, behind these rumours and noises, there are men and women who ask questions. I say very clearly that those who create uncertainty about pensions do not work within the government. Those who create uncertainty in this area are those who claim that action is being taken when it is not, they are those who are making claims of intent on the ongoing reforms and are inventing scenarios outright. Today, I say that certain assertions emanating from the sp.a. and in particular from the unions are aimed at creating anxiety and uncertainty for strictly political purposes which have nothing to do with the interests of the people and pensioners. I wanted to make that clear because adopting this kind of attitude is a little easy. I mean, for example, the Sp.a say that it will take 208 days a year to get access to the early pension. This has never been decided by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u29	That was a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u30	No, it wasn't a question; it was an assertion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u31	I asked if that was true.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u32	There are several ways to ask a question. This can be done insidiously by claiming that the measure already exists and asking if it is. When asked if this is the case, it means that the measure is considered to exist. No, she doesn't exist! Of course, there are many working hypotheses. At the level of the pension office, for example, there are dozens, if not hundreds of possible reform assumptions and scenarios. But these assumptions of work are not measures that are taken. I would therefore like, once and for all, to break this mechanics. Those who create uncertainty and anxiety about pensions do so for political purposes. It is not the government that organizes this! We are very clear on this! In any case, I would like to be told of the statements I have made that would create uncertainty, questioning and anxiety among the population. I never practice this way! Besides, I don't do that in the other direction either, Mr. Daerden. I never said pensions were unpayable. I never said that! There was one who once said that if we didn't do anything, we would go into the wall, but it wasn't me! I say it with all friendship. I would like to be clear in this regard. On the other hand, as Mr Spooren has said, we have a responsibility to the people who are working today and who will be pensioned tomorrow for future generations. And I say that if we do not reform the pension system, we are moving into an impasse, towards major difficulties for society as a whole. That's the truth! I do not want to scare anyone because we are taking the necessary reforms. So we are going to make the system sustainable. We are strengthening the first pillar. We also believe that the second pillar should be developed in parallel. This is essential if the standard of living of pensioners tomorrow is to be better aligned with that which they have when they work. No one can deny it. It's a reality. It's not to scare the public that we're talking about this. It is to make him understand that we have a collective responsibility to strengthen our pension system to ensure that future generations can benefit from it. That is the reality! We are developing a very clear vision in this area. It is easy to criticize and affirm that there is no global vision, etc. These are commercial coffee conversations! It is easy, but the government has always defined the principles of action for this reform. First, consider life expectancy. Those who claim not to want to take it into account – and there are many! – are wrong. All the countries of the developed world, all the countries of Europe approach things in the same way. All of you! Secondly, we need to harmonize our regimes. The complete process of this harmonisation is the point pension. Today, the left is against the point pension – as I say – when we believe that this point pension is necessary, precisely to harmonise the schemes and to ensure that there is more justice in the system, that every euro contributed gives entitlement to pension. That is the objective. It is therefore a global view of the system. We want to further harmonize schemes, to eliminate a number of injustices, to ensure that tomorrow it is no longer possible for someone who has worked very little to have a pension higher than someone who has worked his whole life. These are still necessary objectives, of course political but which we assume. We are also making sure to upgrade the lowest pensions. That's the truth. Never has a government done so much for minimum pensions. I say today: 151 euros more per month for the pension of an independent person today, 89 euros more per month for the pension of an employee. And it's not over. The government's goal was to go beyond the poverty line. We did. We are beyond the poverty line. We will continue that. In order to guarantee this solidarity, a number of measures must also be taken. That's right. We believe that these measures are necessary. The general principle of these measures, which we are dealing with today and concern all the reforms, is to ensure that the periods worked generate more pensions than the periods not worked. I assume this, of course, while maintaining the solidarity aspect. That is why I do not agree with some of the figures that are quoted. I'm not saying the numbers are wrong. I say that the working assumptions on which these figures are based are incorrect. To claim, for example, that we will reduce the pension of someone who has worked 45 years, whereas he has only 833 euros of pension, they are balivers. Someone who has worked 45 years has a minimum pension of 1,212 euros. Of course, some have mixed careers. But if we take only the figure for employees' pensions and forget to say that another pension is added because it is a mixed career, we deceive the population. Those who say we're going to reduce the pension for those who have only 833 euros of pension when they have a full career tell anything. You're lying knowingly. I want to say it today. It is a little easy to accuse others of maintaining confusion, while one creates confusion and anxiety within the population. I really felt it was necessary to do that. As far as the royal decree we are talking about today is concerned, I would also like to recall the normal procedure. At some point, a budget notification appears. This was the case in October 2016. Not in 2017! A notification made it clear that the system from the third period of the previous government would be extended to the second period. This is the notification of the Government, the principle of which was reflected in a draft royal decree, which was submitted to the Council of State. I would like to hear his opinion on the principle itself. That seems essential to me for the future. Not very long ago, I indicated that the text submitted to it did not contain any derogations, specifying "in the present state". It is written; please read this press release again. I never closed the door. Never! I have always done the same for all the reforms, and not only for this one. Each time, I recalled that there was the principle, on the one hand, and the transitional and derogation periods, on the other. All the bills before you have consistently followed this procedure. We first worked on the principle. As soon as it had been defined, we reflected on the transition periods – which were included in all the projects that have passed here, as well as the derogation measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u33	Minister, if I understand correctly, do you maintain the decision in principle, while adaptation is only a matter of transitional period?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u34	No, I said: transitional period and derogation measures. These have been decided. The exceptions apply to workers aged 50 and over, depending on the type of period and when the worker became unemployed. Those who become so before the age of 50 are not going to suffer from an elimination of the assimilated periods – contrary to what is sometimes suggested. This has never been mentioned! Assimilations will be calculated on the basis of a fictitious wage of €2,000, i.e. the real minimum right. This means that low wages are not at all affected by this measure. I would remind you that the minimum wage guaranteed in our country is around 1,600 euros. Clearly, we have not calculated the assimilations for this one, but on the basis of the real minimum right, which is EUR 2 000 per month. Workers who receive very high wages are in fact more affected than others by a possible decrease, from the moment they are assimilated on the basis of EUR 2 000 rather than on the basis of their last fictitious wage. That is true, but we can also see this aspect from the perspective of solidarity. I still wanted to recall a number of principles. Once this royal decree has been agreed upon in Kern, I shall change it accordingly. The Kern completes his decision. We cannot be resigned – as some are, I have to see – because someone who loses his job after 50 years will be unemployed for his whole life, even when life expectancy is 100 years. I don't share that. I would not make a policy if I considered that people who lose their jobs at age 50 are once and for all unemployed, for all their lives, regardless of the length of their career. I don't share that vision. And neither does the government. That is why we want to give thought to the activation of older unemployed people. This can only be done in consultation with the Regions, since the competence is partly regional. We will discuss this with the Regions within the framework of the Consultation Committee. We will seek the opinion of the National Labour Council, because we believe that the social partners must be involved in this reflection. What can we do to make it easier to find a job after 50 years and to stop considering, for example, that people over 50 are no longer entitled to training? In many minds, there's still the idea that when we were 50, we ended our career. No, we didn't finish our career when we were 50! I think we have to fight this idea. On the contrary, much more voluntarism is needed in the field of activation policy. That's what we're going to do. Of course, this has an effect on pensions. If we get people back to work, they're paying more. That's for sure. They therefore feed the solidarity system and the pension contribution system. One cannot deny that there are aspects related to pensions. Once we get people back to work, it has consequences for pensions. We will, of course, analyse them. I repeat that the Kern has clearly taken the decision that people over 50 and those over 55 will benefit from an exception in terms of assimilation, not on the basis of the real minimum right, but on the basis of their last salary. I will not hold the budget debate here; I am sorry, that is not the point. The parliamentary re-entry will take place in October, with a government statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u35	(...) I see 52 million in 2018. This is still not the budget debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u36	I'm coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u37	And I see the same thing for 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u38	No, I will not hold the debate in 2019. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u39	But that's your deal! It is not a text of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u40	With regard to the 52 million, I can give you the savings measures for 2018, taken by the budgetary conclave on pensions. There is an amendment to the Wynincks assessment. Why? To take account of the opinion of the Court of Auditors on the matter. This has been requested by many of you, on various occasions. We have decided to double the amount of the supplementary pension premium tax that exceeds the current threshold of €31,000 and to increase from 1.5% to 3%. This corresponds to 12 million revenue. We will monitor compliance with the 80% tax limit on supplementary pensions. Again, I have been hearing since we announced that we will remove the 80% rule. No! We don't touch it. We will simply ensure that it is respected, which is not always the case today. I recall the 80% rule: the total legal pension plus the supplementary pension cannot exceed 80% of the last salary. The reference to the last salary is a little out of date. We will work on a reference that takes into account several years of salary. I would point out that beyond this 80% rule, premiums are still possible, but in theory they are no longer deductible. I give an example. A person has a (big) last salary of 10,000 euros. The 80% rule means that he will have a pension of EUR 8 000. You are removing EUR 2 000 from the statutory pension; there is still EUR 6 000 in the supplementary pension. All this is deductible. But at some point, we have to control the limit. It cannot be accepted that this deductibility is boundless. That is the principle of this rule. The budgetary evaluation of this measure is under way. It is carried out at the level of the Ministry of Finance. A technical correction...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u41	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u42	A technical correction to the rate of return linked to the reform of the purchase of the academic years results in a return of 2.6 million. The system of compensation due between the State and Proximus, provided for under the law which organises the payment of Belgacom's pensions by the State, will be reviewed. The budgetary return is EUR 10 million. Monitoring of the residency obligation of GRAPA beneficiaries will be strengthened as of next year, with a return for 2018 of €2.7 million. In addition, there will be a measure exempting from social contributions the supplementary remuneration offered to the older worker who adapts his professional career. These are the famous landingsbaan acts. This allows for a budgetary savings in pensions of 47 million from 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u43	Minister, the 10 million Proximus are not in the 52 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u44	If you're counting the measures I've just mentioned, we're over 52! (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u45	If you do, everyone's gonna do it. I suggest the Minister closes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u46	Forty-seven million! I would point out that none of these measures results in a reduction of pension in any way. For the rest, I refer you to the forthcoming budgetary debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u47	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u48	No. It is the budgetary debate that will be held at a later stage. Today, there is no question of discussing the 2019 budget, the 2020 budget, or even the 2060 budget!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u49	Minister, there are 100 000 people who are about to retire. They don't know what's coming. You continue to refuse to clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u50	I'm perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u51	No, you're not clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u52	When we quote pension figures, this is mainly about taking account of the fact that we have to work longer. Always! You must always consider this. There is a need to take more account of life expectancy and the fact that we are working a little longer. This is what has achieved all the pension savings decided upon since this government took office, and this will continue to be based essentially on this principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u53	I want to respect the scope of the debate, but if I could just...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u54	(...) We will not talk about that. I told you that, didn't I?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u55	The piece about the 50-plussers was also about 2019, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u56	Mr Calvo, I am trying to carry out the agreements we made last week correctly. I'm like this. I propose that the scope be limited to the debate we are currently having. If you have any questions about 2019, you are free to ask them, but in the context of the discussion on the policy statement. You are therefore welcome in this Committee on Social Affairs, not just today. That's what I'd like to say. You can ask all these questions, but let us confine ourselves today to the exchange of views on these points. Okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u57	It was also about 2019. Minister, you haven't taken any action yet. You note amounts in the agreement but only for pensions from 2019, for 50 years and over, and not for the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u58	You're the one who said it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u59	Measures for 50 years and over are also planned for 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u60	I gave earlier the figures of the measures for the 50 years and over: €9.480 million in 2019. The derogation for them reduces this yield by €1.8 million. As far as Mrs Becq's question is concerned, we are indeed offering the bridge pensioners the opportunity to take up their early retirement without having to wait until they reach the statutory retirement age. The date of 1 September 2017 concerns the transitional measures of the draft Royal Decree which provides that we will continue to apply the old rules to persons whose career reaches 14 040 days on that date. On a sample of the population, held back by my administration, about 20% achieves a full career while they are in unemployment or early retirement. I will ask you, as you wish, to have the figures for the various categories mentioned. To Mrs Fonck's question, who is asking me about a retroactive effect of the reform as of 1 January 2017, I can answer that this is not the case, since the reform concerns pensions taking place at the earliest on 1 January 2019. The Council of State has also made no reservation on the application of the provisions over time. We will take into account periods of pre-pension and unemployment from 1 January 2017, but the pensions concerned are those which take place from 1 January 2019. Mrs. Temmerman, I'm coming to the career unit. For people with a career of 45 years nothing changes. There is only a change for the years after a full career. After a full career, only additional rights can be built up for effective days worked. This will increase pension income. I always hear about a possible reduction in pension. No! No one says we're going to raise the pension for those who continue to work beyond 45 years of career. I'm saying it! I can even say that exactly. Thanks to the reform, a person who earns the median wage... I base my calculations on the median wage because I understand that some people sometimes make some effort to take into account the most extreme situations. For example, someone who starts working at the age of 14 and has a salary above the salary ceiling.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u61	Minister, I said 18 years!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u62	Yeah, yeah, but I'm gonna go. I'm not talking about you, ma'am. You, you are always a total correction! You express yourself accurately every time. On the other hand, the example taken by some unions is that of people who have reached 52 or 53 years of career - as if, suddenly, everyone was going to work that long. We're in the middle of delusion! People who would start working at 14 years of age and who would continue their careers for 52 or 53 years would be considered for pay above the salary ceiling. Of course, at the beginning of their career – at the age of 14 – they certainly benefit from exceptional vocational training allowing them to receive a salary higher than the salary ceiling... You have to stop laughing! That's not the rule! Some use extreme theoretical cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u63	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u64	No, I'm not saying no one's concerned. I never said it! Don't make me say what I didn't say! On the contrary, I took the example of someone who started at the age of 18 and could retire at the age of 63. But he decides not to take it, because he prefers to continue to receive unemployment benefits – as if they had been designed for that purpose. From time to time, we have to go back to the fundamentals: they are not meant for this. The same individual is old enough to retire, after 45 years of work, but he chooses not to take it and continue to remain unemployed. Therefore, he is a voluntary unemployed person. In addition to continuing to receive unemployment benefits, which commit solidarity, he would increase his pension rights? Do we have a minimum common sense? For my part, if this person continues to receive his unemployment benefits and does not take up his pension, he will indeed continue to constitute pension rights of 13 euros monthly per year, for a median wage. In total, if she reaches the age of 65, she will have continued to receive her unemployment benefits and pension rights in such a way that she will have 26 euros more per month. It is not a reduction in the pension of the person who should take his pension at a normal age after 45 years of career, it is a non-increase of 26 euros per month for two years. That is the result! On the other hand, the 63-year-old, who has 45 years of career and continues to work up to 65 years, will, on the basis of a median salary, make up 52 euros more monthly at the end of these two years. 52 euros more for having actually worked two more years. Is it illegitimate? No, I think it's legitimate! One in the other, there is a sort of rebalancing so that periods worked are taken into account more than periods not worked. I do this and the government as a whole is taking care of it! We must stop pretending that this will, on average, constitute losses of more than EUR 100 per month! There may be extreme theoretical cases – but you really have to imagine them! – which could lead to this but this is obviously not the rule. I wanted to put things back into reality. It seems essential to me to say everything and anything in order to create anxiety, uncertainty and questioning for purely political purposes! But we are not fooled by this!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, you will all now have the opportunity to dot the 'I'.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u66	Mr President, I would like to share some elements of reaction. First of all, Minister, you have a memory problem. You say you never said it would be impossible without your reforms. I urge you to check out your party's website, the MR. Your sentence is reproduced in text. You said, "Without my reforms, it will be impeccable." This is a parenthesis. As you said, I wanted to react. You say you want to encourage the activation of the elderly unemployed. We can only agree. Have no doubt about our willingness to activate the older unemployed too! We are not resigned at all. That is not the point at all. I take note that you have been firm in saying that the derogation decision is taken. There's really no doubt anymore. It's just a matter of how long it takes for this to be endorsed by the government and you will support this government-level derogation. It makes me smile a little bit that you refer to your recent statement in which, feeling that the wind was turning, you said: "no derogation in the current state". This is not at the beginning when you, in the notification, had the amount that did not include the exemption and included the total amount. If you had any doubts, your draft order would have incorporated the possible derogation. That being said, let us go back to a few complementary elements. You have pointed out that this measure of second period of unemployment of up to three years would represent 9 million euro savings in 2019. But also said, with pains, that it would be only 7 million, given the derogation. How many people will this concern? I don't know if you mentioned that number. That was one of the questions. Because you're dealing with a lot at the same time, it's sometimes difficult to get there. How many people will be affected by these 7 million savings? As this figure is significant, the number of people will also be significant. I'm doing a little parenthesis before I approach the career unit. I take note that you state that you will not be affected by the rule of calculation for the valuation of a year. You said that some parties or unions were advancing anything and frightening people. I can take note that you are particularly reassuring and confirm that the current calculation method will be maintained. Nothing is worse than blur. You said it. Be clear on the fact that you are not going to touch the number of days that allow you to value a year. You confirm your head. Thank you. To try to understand well, I'm going back to the career unit. As has been said on several occasions today, the subject of pensions is complicated. Let us take the case of a person who started working at 16 years of age, a priori with a low wage, who works for 45 years until the age of 61 and who unfortunately loses his place. This person may be unemployed and for a few years. These years, in the first and second periods, will no longer be valued for his pension. It will take between 16 and 61 years and we will no longer have unemployment in those years, even in the first period. If I understand correctly, for the person who is in this situation, having worked from 16 to 61 years and being unemployed unfortunately for four years, we give up. If his year of unemployment in the first period is more valuable than his first year of work at the age of 16 – in 90% of cases, this will be the case; we can ask for statistics to know – it will be penalized with the new system. She's gonna lose money. So, someone who had the double bad luck to have to start working at 16 and lose his job at 61 is penalized by the Minister of Pensions! You encourage you to take the pension and not stay in the world of work and return to a job. It's purely ideological! It's against your budget, by the way. Because if he falls on the Pensions budget, it'll be expensive for you. All this in order not to risk having to give him another 16 euros. For some, 16 euros, that counts! So I understand your measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u67	Everyone says they're in favour of clear communication. I'm very happy about that. I suspect that I have to deduce from this that everyone will make sure that communication is clear, with examples that do not seem to suggest that all kinds of measures are being taken that have not been taken. At the same time, it is important that the message about longer working, which we are trying to give, does not mean that we abandon solidarity with those who are weaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u68	Minister, you are very badly placed to attack sp.a in general on the issue of communication. We have had the debate, I will not repeat it completely, but it is clear that the exception for the 50-plussers would not have been possible if no action had been taken. Mr President, you yourself confirmed on television that the exception for the 50-plussers was gone. You, Minister, then said that it was effectively gone, while others said that it was not gone. And then it would be sp.a's fault that people are scared? That's a pot ripped off or fantaisiste, in French. I am very sorry about that. Then just admit that you had misjudged this measure and that it changed the government's mind. This has been done under pressure from the action that has been carried out there. That is clear to everyone. Mr President, you have started by reminding us of the debate on the two friends. You must make it clear to me what the measures in the Summer Agreement will change to the inequality between the two girlfriends. They'll both have less retirement. Those who have worked will not be retired, Mr President. The other, who was unemployed, was already unemployed before she turned 50. Those measures will therefore not change that either. What is being said here is simply nonsense for the example of the two friends, which was also a bit off, because it is not normally possible to be unemployed today. In any case, the proposals do not change that example. Minister, I did not receive any answers to my questions regarding the solidarity contribution. The President said that it is scandalous that sp.a raises the issue and makes certain points appear. Mr Minister, in response to a question from Mr Daerden in December 2016, which looked at a number of measures, that was one of the measures you confirmed and said that it would cost 84 million. I haven't read anywhere that the decision would be withdrawn. I haven't read anything about you returning to that measure. Minister, is the measure withdrawn? Will the solidarity contribution no longer be abolished?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u69	Mr Van Quickenborne has said something else. Minister, can you confirm the version of Mr. Van Quickenborne? Since this summer, we are not sure that when he says something, it is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u70	Of course, the solidarity contribution for the highest pensions will not be abolished. On the contrary, it is a matter of working on the threshold which is not only for civil servants, as is often the case. The threshold applies, for example, to all persons who have an employee's pension and a supplementary pension. All these people are affected by the solidarity contribution. As we try to boost supplementary pensions and ensure that everyone invests in them, it seems to me that we can think of a very gradual adjustment of the threshold. Indeed, this adaptation is planned from 2019 and over several years. This is an issue that has always been the subject of a commitment on my part, even before I became a minister, since, when I was a member of Parliament, I tabled a proposal to revise these thresholds. In fact, it was voted fairly broadly. It is a matter of pursuing this philosophy. But there is no question of abolishing once and for all the solidarity contribution for the highest pensions. We never said that. We will gradually raise the threshold of the lowest pensions affected by the solidarity contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u71	I am pleased to see that you are clarifying this, but we should have figures on who is and who is not. Who's gonna keep paying them? So do the Members of Parliament, I presume. You were also wondering, Minister, where we were getting the idea that the number of days worked would be increased to include in the pension. It was just in Time. That wasn't from the sp.a. It was in Time as one of the measures to... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u72	If you yourself think there is so much confusion about the number of measures you are taking and there is a newspaper that says that this will be increased, then it is up to you to say that this is not true and that the government has not decided. You're gonna let that... So it's not yours? [[But to whom then?]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u73	(...) based on articles published in the press at any time. That's not my role.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u74	You are mistaken, Minister. If you say...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u75	I'm sorry, but it's not really my job to do that. If, every time someone with a hat all of a sudden said, that's what we're gonna do,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u76	You're gonna fill out a phone book, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u77	We have to stop this kind of joke. These journalists are probably misinformed by some. I guess so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u78	And whether or not the 50-plusser measure was there, that was a journalist's fantasy? It turned out to be right after that. Minister, you are really mistaken when you say that you want to clarify people. Then you'll have to correct those things immediately. It's about that kind of thing, you can laugh at that, because you have a big pension that concerns people with a small pension, for whom one year or less really makes a big difference. If something like this appears and you say: this is not true, then it is your duty to respond. You say that you do not have to respond to everything, but you must respond to such things, Minister. It's still in there, by the way. The fact that you have not responded and that there are still so many measures...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u79	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u80	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u81	No, before that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u82	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u83	Yes. I've had contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u84	You can say whatever you want, of course. In any case, the claim that a total of EUR 250 million is to be found in 2019 has not been denied. You can understand, as soon as such a message appears, that people think that they too will be victims. The fact that you're not denying that is beneath me. You say that you do not respond to all the messages that appear in the newspapers, but people read and are doing those articles. I would like to thank Mr Daerden, who has explained once again what the unity of career and the 45-year career means for people who have had a long career. Mr Minister, you confirm my example. A person who started working at the age of 18 and has a career of 42 years of work will receive less pension than someone who started working at the age of 20 and worked for 40 years. The reason is that the pension is calculated at the first 45 years. Those who started working at the age of 20 have a higher salary at the end and that is more reflected in the pension calculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u85	(...) for people who have 45 years of career. In your example, 18 years and 62 years, it is not 45 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u86	No, but after that, they're unemployed and that doesn't count anymore. That's why we're taking 45 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u87	Yes, I do! If the person is unemployed for one year later, that year will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u88	But not until 65, Minister, because he will have a 45-year career in 63 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u89	But no, he may have taken his pension in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u90	If he doesn't take his pension...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u91	Come on, come on!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u92	I thought everyone had to work longer and be available longer for the labour market? This doesn't count anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u93	Work, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u94	Colleagues, someone who has worked in construction for 18 years will receive less pension than someone who has started working for 20 years. Mr President, I am not alone in saying this. Your colleague De Croo has confirmed the need to review this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u95	That is why two transitional measures have been taken, which the Minister has clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u96	This measure must be reviewed because it is totally unfair. Mrs Becq also said this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u97	That's why there are these two transitional measures...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u98	I'm sorry, but I haven't seen anything of that transitional measure. You say that we are raising exceptions to exceptions. Do you know how many people who retire this year have started working in 14 years, Minister? That's 14 200 in 2019. Coming here saying they're exceptions isn't serious. Of those who are now retiring, a lot of them have started to work in 14 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u99	They took their pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u100	And others are going to take their pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u101	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u102	In 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u103	And they take it after how many years of career?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u104	Maybe more than 45 years old. But you're saying that's an exception. This is not the case at present. There's a lot of them! That you are so derogatory about people who have started working early, who have usually had very difficult jobs and who have been ruined at the end of their lives, I find below all levels. Those aren't big exceptions. Those people exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u105	That is why we will take account of the penitence, which will allow them to leave earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u106	It would be all that would be missing, let it not be taken into account! It is about saying that there are always very exceptional examples. Well, these examples are not so exceptional, Minister. They will be exceptional in the future, that's right, but today they are not. Again, it is usually people who have made little money in their lives and who will have a very low pension after working hard for a lifetime. I'm sorry that you're being so derogatory about that, I don't think it's done. Did I say everything I wanted to say? Yes, I will leave it at that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u107	A number of things still deserve to be mentioned. First of all, this was often about communication. I think everyone should simply have the honesty to acknowledge that the piece has been on the table, but is no longer on the table. Which I welcome. I look forward to the lyrics. Mr President, a royal decision does not normally pass through Parliament, but I do believe that, after the debate we have had, it would be courteous for the government to share the texts. Then we can all verify that the Minister keeps his word. It is never known whether Mr Spoorten and the N-VA Minister Bacquelaine will change their minds in the last straight line, but for the time being I assume that this measure is off the table. It's too bad this had to last a month. Secondly, on the Summer Agreement and budgetary savings. The Minister mentioned a number of measures that would be part of the €53 million additional savings in 2018. For example, he mentioned Proximus and the control of the conditions of residence. These are all things that are on a different line in the budget table and are therefore not part of the 53 million. In fact, Minister, and there you create the uncertainty yourself, you do not want to give access to what has been decided before 2019. That way, you leave a lot of uncertainty and fear. No. In that case, it's you. I'm not talking about the other cases and the debates with sp.a.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u108	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u109	Minister, I am not talking about the debate you have just had with Mr Temmerman on other measures. But in this case, by registering 200 million euros at the top of the 53 in 2018 in 2019 and leaving it unnamed, you create the uncertainty yourself. You and your government are the authors of the Summer Accord. You have chosen to include, at cruising speed, EUR 273 million savings in pensions, but you do not want to tell us today where they are located. Well, then the opposition should actually do nothing to create uncertainty, that uncertainty is there and it comes from your hand. Moreover, you say, Minister, and also Mr Van Quickenborne, that there is a global vision. This just shows that it is essentially a budgetary policy. If there is an overall view on the basis of the budgetary table, then today you could also say perfectly what measures are being taken. But no, you decide first in the Summer Agreement how much you will save on pensioners and then you will look for measures. That is the perfect example of the fact that there is actually no global vision behind this budgetary exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u110	Mr President, I would like to say a word. Every year, I say well every year, there is an increase in the average pension, the minimum pension and the general pension budget. I would like them to increase even more. It's obvious. But when I hear some populists claiming that they will give everyone 1,500 euros of pension, without even saying how they will finance them, it is gravissim! It's making people believe that it's possible and that if you don't, it's just because you don't! What I see, contrary to what you say, is that every year the average pension increases. Every year, the minimum pension increases! It seems to me that this is an appreciable result.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u111	It is not our style of opposition to fight the measures we like. There are pluses, but the minuses are much bigger. The savings you are looking for from pensioners are again greater than those you are asking for from the strongest shoulders in this country in the Summer Agreement. In particular, Minister, I would like to say that by not saying where the EUR 200 million, additional to the EUR 53 million in 2019, will come from, you yourself will increase uncertainty. That's not good. Then I come to my third point. I am therefore looking at Mrs Becq. You said this on the radio this morning and repeated it here. I agree. This is very sensitive matter. We must not play with uncertainty there. We must not play with people's feet. Look at the discussion between the majority parties about the time loan. I find it an interesting proposal from CD&V to activate it for the grandparents, if you still have time credits. Those are people who are supposedly not working anymore, but who still mean a lot to our society. It won't take half an hour before another majority party pulls out her bazooka to shoot off that proposal. This is about the same subject, Mrs Becq, about careers and pensions. One riot hasn't passed or there's already another. I am certainly not in favour of shutting down the political debate on this issue. I just want to ask that this be done with a little more care and seriousness. We have taken a first step today. You have said that the N-VA is biting the sand, there is not going to be a measure, for which I am grateful, but there are still a lot of outstanding questions. I hope we do not have to wait a year to see those outstanding questions answered, Mr Bacquelaine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u112	The fact that proposals are being made does not mean that decisions have been taken. I think this was very clear. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u113	Mrs. Fonck?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u114	Minister, you said it was unacceptable and irresponsible to play with the anxiety of the citizens. I agree with you on this point. But let me make two observations. Firstly, if we refer to the positions that have been expressed by each party in the government in recent weeks, the least we can say is that we have heard everything and its opposite and that this has a significant influence - it is understandable - on the public's sense of concern. Second, I have your website in front of me. This is therefore not an outdated information. It only refers to the fact that there will be no exceptions for unemployed people over the age of 50. This is the official version of your website. Accusing each other to play on people's fear while contrary information is given by the government and it appears on your site is not responsible. Anyway, it's all but clear. As far as the substance is concerned, we will see. Indeed, I am waiting to see what happens next; I am waiting to see what the government is going to decide because no decision has been made. The government's decision may still have some surprises, despite the positions defended by some parties of the majority today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u115	Minister, you're amazing! You have this power to postpone the fault on the opposition. Your way of doing things is impressive. It is very clear that you had an agreement that 50 years and older should not be the subject of an exception. It sweats through all the pores. You said it, just like Mr. Van Quickenborne: we have a deal! Now you say that's not true! I said "in the current form", in een huigige vorm. Can you imagine saying in the political debate, about any decision of the Kern: "of calm, in een huigige vorm..." Can you imagine the artistic blurry of political debate? Current form... current form . "There's an index jump? Non, il n.o.y and a pas in a current form." "Working until 67? Not too fast for the debate in een huigige vorm". This would mean that no political declaration is valid anymore. Just after the summer agreement, different actors reported a clear decision on the absence of exceptions for the 50-year-olds. And then you step back. What does it cost you? You have even asked the Council of State to return the text to you to rework it. It's amazing! If you had to go back, it was because of the opposition and the unions. You had clearly hoped for something else. Why did you change your mind? Because the weather was beautiful? This worries me even more if you change your mind according to the weather. Minister, you bear a responsibility: you scare people. And what impresses me now is that you sweep everything away from the back of your hand, while at the level of communication, you are trying to pass in force. You were asked a question: can you assure us that you will not question the exception? Mr. Van Quickenborne says we can never guarantee it. It is always possible to then take another royal decree. Wait! There are still political agreements! Let me ask you this: will you come back to this during this Parliament? Could you just answer that question by saying: "Yes, it is obvious that no majority partner will come back on this decision".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u116	The answer was yes, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u117	Is the answer yes? Will you never come back to this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u118	I replied that the Kern's decision had been taken. She's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u119	We note that no other majority partner will return.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u120	It is clear, and contrary to what you say, of course, in all the debates on pensions, it has often happened to change your mind. It's a confession.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u121	Is that the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u122	It's not a problem! Mr President, may I answer this gentleman? In the sectarian and dogmatic ideology that is yours, one does not change one's mind, since one has a Marxist pattern that is fixed once and for all. Let me tell you that this is not my case. I am a Liberal and I practice free examination. I'm looking at things. Sometimes I get convinced by arguments. This is part of political life! We've always worked like this! For you, that's not possible! In your mind, it is not possible, you think you have absolute truth! That is what made the world unhappy!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u123	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u124	In reply to Mrs Fonck, I have expressed the current position. The draft royal decree has been changed and I present it to you today. He's going back to the Council of State. He still has to obtain the final formal agreement of all the government parties. It's the classic procedure. Between initial and final projects, which include derogations and transitional periods, there are changes! If you think that once you put a project on the table, it can never change, even if the facts make you wrong, what you say is gravissimus!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u125	Minister, you have changed your mind, and that is because of the opposition. Be happy, we helped you change your mind! When it comes to dogma, you have to open your mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u126	It's a height!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u127	You pose the problem – as well as all the right-wing parties – by saying that there are fewer and fewer assets for more and more people who will retire. That's right and that's great! It's great, it's a modern society that evolves with science and innovation. The problem is that you analyze everything of static matter. By active worker, the wealth produced today has been multiplied by four times compared to 1960. Every asset that works today will produce much more wealth, which will allow not to pay a pensioner, but two! That's why science is here! You don't believe in this science, in this ability to increase productivity. You vais parler the dogma. I note that Austria now gives 14.7 % of its GDP to pensions. It is not a communist revolution in Austria, it is the European Union! And they don't have a problem paying. [[We, here, are not even 11% yet.]] What's the matter, minister? It's a matter of priority! Democratically, even when the baby boom is fully pensioned, a maximum of 30% of our population will be pensioned. What is the problem that 15%, half of our cake, go to these pensioners? What is the budgetary problem? Why would these 30% of the population not be entitled to receive 15% of the cake? There's a liberal dogma that says, "No more than 10%!" Why are these people going to receive only a third of our produced wealth? I have a problem, minister! You're talking about populists, you're criticizing the PTB, the FGTB, who are talking about 1,500 euros. We start from what is humanly necessary for people. Minister, having to live on 930 euros, rowing every month is a situation you will never experience! Yes, we are proud to defend our position. We propose, minister, that some of the wealth produced go to our pensioners. One day, the baby boom will stop. This problem will not last 150 years! This is a one-time problem, but today you are charging pensioners and it is not true to do so!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u128	Mr. Hedebouw is occulting an important point. Since 1925, the legal age of the pension has never been reached. Life expectancy increased by 90%, but the pension age remained the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u129	And productivity, how much has it increased?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u130	It was precisely productivity that made this possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u131	Yes, but the wealth produced too!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u132	But it's not infinitely extensible!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u133	This is a liberal dogma!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u134	No, it is simply the fact that if there are significant increases in life expectancy in the years to come, one is obliged to take into account a minimum. I believe that having a society where the period worked is reduced to a state of grief in relation to the period of life is extremely dangerous for social cohesion and for society in general. We have a different approach. You don't think we should take that into account. Personally, I think it's a mistake. Productivity needs to be taken into account, and you know as well as I do that the current debate on future productivity increases creates divergences among experts. We must therefore be careful. I think it is quite logical to take life expectancy into account. We're rarely right on our own, Mr. Hedebouw. I note that life expectancy is taken into account in all countries, notwithstanding productivity. Productivity is one thing, but it is not capable of absorbing indefinitely...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u135	It's a dogma.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u136	No, it's not a dogma. We see this everywhere. This is a finding of reality. You know what I do. There are sometimes real falls in productivity. We know that. We have to take that into account, too. We can't bet everything on productivity. We need to predict a number of scenarios. This is what the Federal Planning Office does: it makes several scenarios according to the evolution of productivity. But whatever the scenario, the conclusions are always that life expectancy still needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u137	Gentlemen, this exchange was very interesting, but I think it is still beyond the scope of the exchange of views. This is a very important debate. Ladies and gentlemen, it is 1 p.m. Can we finish today's debate after this interesting, spicy, sometimes intense discussion, by agreeing, of course, that next Tuesday we will have the draft on the union of careers? I have noted the question relating to the Royal Decree. The Rules of Procedure state that we can request the presence of a minister, but not that we can request underlying documents. I think, however, that, for reasons of public access to the administration, we can also ask the President of the Chamber to what extent Members of Parliament can have documents that have to come to the Council of Ministers or have already passed and at what stage we can request them. I don't have an answer to that today. I'm telling you the truth. As a young Member of Parliament, in 2000, I once looked at the stage at which we could obtain documents, but I bumped into a wall. Maybe now there's a hole in the wall. I'll ask anyway. Minister, is it a problem for you to pass on the text to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u138	Mr President, he must first return to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u139	Yes, but I'm talking about the text as it stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u140	Of course, but I think that he must first return to the Council of Ministers. It's the normal procedure. I recall that this is not a bill, it is a royal order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic725x.u141	That's the deal we make. Once the royal decision has been passed in the Council of Ministers, we will deliver it to the members of our committee.
