ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u2	Colleagues, I have received a point of order from Messrs. Calvo and Nollet pursuant to Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure. I am reading the text of this motion. "Mr. President, today we learned from the press that the Council of State had delivered an opinion on the government's draft law on the tax on securities accounts. According to the press, this opinion would be particularly critical from the legal point of view: insufficient justification for exempt products, risk of discrimination, disproportionality. The grievances seem numerous and serious. This opinion could therefore have dramatic budgetary consequences. Since the announcement at the end of July of this tax by the government, contradictory and controversial statements within the government itself on the feasibility and/or application of this tax have continued to follow. In light of these elements, we ask, on this point of order, and on behalf of our group, that the government speak through the Prime Minister, before the vote of confidence, to clarify how it will take into account the Council of State's key remarks on the draft bill." We have two options. On the one hand, according to the Rules of Procedure, any political group may vote on this motion for a five-minute speaking time. Anderzijds lees ik in de tekst dat aan de eerste minister wordt gevraagd: "...before the vote of confidence" - which will take place in a few moments - "to clarify how it will take into account the essential remarks of the Council of State on the preliminary bill." I can imagine that we are having a discussion on whether we should do this or not. However, we can also take the fastest route and address the Prime Minister with the question of whether he wishes to express himself on this issue, as stated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u3	Mr President, I would like to justify our request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u4	Would it not be wiser, Mr Nollet, for the Prime Minister to speak on what we asked him to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u5	I'll explain why.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u6	Mr President, I will listen to the initiators of this proposal and then I will react.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u7	As you wish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u8	Thank you, Mr President, Prime Minister, I think that is indeed the right attitude. We have had an intense debate here in Parliament for 48 hours, an extremely important debate on the state of the Union. Within this debate and within your initial statement, there was a chapter on a measure that has been the subject of much discussion within the majority and within your government. The purpose of this measure is to introduce taxation on securities accounts. This measure was so discussed in the government that it was thought, at some point in the summer, that it was no longer in your government agreement. Let us remember that last year, the CD&V, one of the partners of your majority, demanded, but without obtaining, a measure of that order. You came here to Parliament exactly 48 hours ago to present us with the content of your agreement, including this taxation. Today, we learn that the Council of State considers that on the basis of this text, the target you have told us about - that is, people who actually have some means to be able to exceed the amounts quoted - is absolutely not covered by the text as it is currently on the government table. If we asked you to speak before the vote of confidence here in the rostrum, it is to put things to rest around this issue. The environmentalists have long considered that there is now in your majority and in the proposals that you are defending, a blatant imbalance between what you are asking the people who work, the people who have difficulties, the people who are suffering to participate in the budget balance, and what you are asking speculators, those who have the means, those who have been enjoying the system for years without contributing to it as much as they should. It's a central issue, it's an extremely important dimension. When we talk about the state of the Union, I want to send back to you the state of disunity of your majority on this issue. But today, Prime Minister, we want to offer you the opportunity, at the very least, to restore balance. And not to follow what the Open Vld, notably through Vincent Van Quickenborne, immediately tried to train as a movement within your majority by saying "we sit down on the advice of the Council of State, no matter what it says; for us, what matters is what is in the text. Bar-point." While the Council of State rightly says that the tax as it is currently calibrated is totally discriminatory and unfair. So, Prime Minister, I need to hear from you here to find out who, from the CD&V on one side or from the Open Vld on the other, is right about this issue. Will you correct the text to take account of the fundamental remarks, and not only legal, of the Council of State or, as the Open Vld asks, will you, with your eyes closed, keep the text and its balance? That is why, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have called for a Conference of Presidents. We hoped to be able to organize the work in such a way as to reach a consensus. Unfortunately, this has not been possible. So we had to table a motion for you to come and speak here. Frankly, this opinion of the Council of State is of paramount importance in order to judge the trust or mistrust that you deserve. And I am talking not only about the opposition parties, but also about the partners of the majority who have already spoken on this issue. Above all, Prime Minister, it is the confidence of the citizens that we are talking about, because they are entitled to expect from you a budget that is not only balanced, but above all allows for a fair contribution on the part of each of us to the objectives that are ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be very long. You will remember, Prime Minister, that yesterday in the gallery, I gave an account of all your disagreements. I explained how much more time you spent dealing with your government's problems rather than the problems of our fellow citizens. What is distressing is that we had a long-hour debate yesterday on the tax on securities accounts. This debate was a very interesting debate and very clear positions were adopted, especially by our CD&V colleagues, who visibly attached great importance to this tax. I can understand them. At the same time, however, it must be borne in mind today that with the elements that emerge from the press with regard to the opinion of the Council of State, if the draft law is maintained as it stands, it will go to the Constitutional Court. In other words, the outright cancellation of this draft tax on the contribution of financial assets. I guess that's not what the CD&V wants, and maybe not what others want in your majority. At the same time, it is clear that those who fled this bill, on the day of the vote of confidence for your government, clearly intend to soap your board. This means that you are presenting yourself to us today with a government that is disunited, disarticulated. That's, maybe, the real problem. There will be a vote of confidence for a government that is not able to maintain its cohesion. That's the real problem. That is why we support this point of order and it is essential, Prime Minister, that you can tell us today what you intend to do with this opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, we had a long and substantive debate yesterday. It was a good debate in which everyone defended their views. Today, however, it appears that yesterday, at the time when Mr Verherstraeten was in the chair defending the policy very strongly, you had the opinion of the Council of State, which states that the great powers will not contribute. That advice is very destructive for the securities tax. This afternoon, in our capacity as Members of Parliament, we asked the President of the Chamber for an opinion, but that was refused. After all, we need to get it off the Internet today. Prime Minister, we are asking for a debate on this today. It is important that all Members of this House know on the basis of what information they will press the voting button. Mr Verherstraeten, you defended the policy yesterday. I reminded you that your group left the negotiating table a year ago because you did not have a trophy in your pocket. Now you only have the securities tax in your pocket and it turns out to be an empty box. If you give confidence again today, I'll tell you right now that you're burying the securities tax. After all, there will be no more adjustments. If you really mean it, there will have to be a signal from your group today, otherwise the great capacities will never contribute.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that yesterday we had a bad play. In substance, I cannot imagine that this opinion of the Council of State came as if by chance during the night. You certainly had to know the content of it yesterday, when, in particular, the CD&V colleagues came to explain how important it was for them to foresee more fairness in the efforts imposed on citizens, whether in terms of health, pensions, with sometimes harsh and brutal measures. More fairness, you tried to make us believe it. But today, the castle of cards has collapsed: there is a hole in your government agreement and this hole is anything but banal. You can't make us believe you didn't know. From the beginning, you have imagined a tax on securities accounts that would allow the wealthy to preserve themselves through the legal constructions of the holding companies. Prime Minister, I asked you yesterday, in the event that the Council of State would not validate the scheme, whether or not you were going to review your copy in depth to assume more tax fairness. Neither you nor the Minister of Finance have answered me. Today, I understand that you were unable to do so because you knew that the opinion of the Council of State would nullify this important agreement that allowed your government to go through all the discussions of the summer. Therefore, you make the choice of a bank agreement on everything that concerns fairness in the efforts imposed on citizens. This is extremely serious because you can no longer claim this fairness. Today, you have two choices. First, the choice of ease: I already hear you say that you are going to look at this opinion, that we are going to work on it, that the government is going to work on it, and so on. Secondly, the choice of courage: commit yourself to the government as a whole – including your Finance Minister who did everything possible to sabotage this tax last summer with statements to everything. If you take the option of courage, you have to commit yourself to a review of this tax on securities accounts and above all to the fact that it affects all the great riches, including those who use the legal construction of the holding companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, in your budget outline, 254 million revenue is related to the proceeds of this tax. When we asked, not so long ago, the Minister of Finance to tell us how he estimated this amount, he was obviously unable to give objective elements of what the taxable basis would be. It was not necessary to be a great jurist to know that the criteria announced by the government agreement would not stand up to the analysis of the Council of State. It was inscribed in the stars. Today, you probably have a crazy opinion from the Council of State. So, asking for the confidence of Parliament by having constantly told us that you were the government of the soundness of the budget, of the correctness of the forecasts, of the credibility of the figures - we will return to it in the justifications before the vote - and knowing that there is such a sword of Damocles that weighs on the very credibility of your budgetary adjustment, it is perhaps more happy to suspend the work, to allow Parliament first to take notice of the opinion of the Council of State and then to come back here to know what we need to vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u13	Mr President, this government sees this Parliament more and more as a circus with puppets. That's what they think we are. There is absolutely no respect of this government for Parliament, absolutely no respect. Yesterday during the debate, Prime Minister, I explicitly asked you about the state of the securities tax and the opinion of the Council of State. I suddenly saw nervously shuffling and chatting with a number of ministers. I think you thought I had it at the time, but no, I didn't. I expected to get an answer from you at the end of the day. And yes, I was still there when you replied last night, something that most Members cannot say. However, you did not answer my question. Now I understand yesterday's nervous scuffle. This morning I immediately knew why; the answer was read in the newspapers. That's very typical. As a Member of Parliament, questions are asked in Parliament, but the answers are given in the newspaper the next day. That is absolutely unworthy of this Parliament. There is absolutely no respect for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, as I said yesterday about the securities tax, I was surprised that the largest Flemish party agreed, because it is yet another Flemish transfer tax that we want to introduce. I also said that this tax does not target the super rich, because they know all the loopholes and know how to use patrimony companies and holding companies to avoid the tax. The information we were not supposed to receive yesterday during the debate is in the newspaper today. You claim to introduce fiscal justice with this security tax, but the securities tax violates the principle of equality. We can't have that information, but I can tell you how things are going. You have a President of the Chamber like a puppet on a string that does what this government says. The MPs of the majority will, as always, be a voting machine and good applause to give this government the confidence, but realize that no one outside believes in everything you say here and in your unbelievable defense of the securities tax. You live in a cocoon. The gap between rhetoric and reality, as I said repeatedly yesterday and not only for the impact tax, but also for other points in the policy statement, is widening every day. That has been proven today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u15	Mr President, we will indeed support this point of order because the opinion of the Council of State considers this text to be discriminatory. And that's not surprising. There is real discrimination, which we have already denounced, for the benefit of the super rich, friends of this government, within certain cabinets of some of the ministers of this government. Discrimination joins the main flaw of this text, namely that it affects certain medium fortunes, those which will be taxed at least, while it completely saves the greatest fortunes. The PTB said it from the start. A July article from Free Belgium already said exactly the same thing. It was entitled "the super rich will escape the tax on securities accounts". This is obvious since it is enough not to own these financial assets via a securities account but via a holding company. Everyone said it, but this government doesn't want to take it into account. I said yesterday again: someone who would have 600,000 euros of GBL shares, namely Albert Frère's holding company, would pay the tax. Albert Brother who has six billion fortunes won't pay the tax. Let's try to understand the logic of government, if not, once again, to be able to give gifts to their super rich friends. It is also known that the Prime Minister insisted that there would be no possibility of creating a file at the central point of contact to check if someone owns more than one security account. The Finance Minister raised the issue, but the Prime Minister said, "Not touch!" It's clearly a way of saying "friends the rich, cheat, create several security accounts; so you won't pay that tax!" It's a tax-bidon, made to avoid being paid, to pass austerity. We make the people believe that we have taxed the rich, but we know that the rich will not pay it. We put everything in place so they don't pay for it. This is what the Council of State points out here in its legal way to address discrimination. Indeed, it is a bit like the Council of State's summary of the political maneuver that is there to satisfy the CD&V which had its tax on capital gains, the latter having disappeared after a year because it was as badly tied as the one presented today. When it comes to applying a VAT on electricity to the people, there are no difficulties, it goes without a problem, but when it comes to taxing the rich, it is much more complicated and the self-sabotaging government has its own bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, and as has already been said, we had a thorough and substantial debate yesterday, full of passion and conviction. From time to time, there was even some sense of humor. That is the voice of democracy. Secondly, the important debate and discussion were about the government's policy statement. I was very clear in my government statement two days ago. I have always said that this statement is a strong message for the future, but that it would still be necessary in the coming weeks and months to concrete our commitments. There are very experienced parliamentarians here, much more than I am myself, who are very familiar with parliamentary procedures. We have agreed within the government on a political declaration. We have even done better than our predecessors, since we have validated much earlier than usual a program law with more than 200 articles that reflect our budgetary commitments. These will be addressed to the European authorities and Parliament, in accordance with the rules in force. In this way, we will be able to see how it will be possible to put our budget in order and thus translate our political choices. Yesterday, on behalf of the majority, in the name of a strong coalition, I expressed a clear commitment: we want more jobs, we want more economic growth and we want to fight for more social and fiscal justice. In fact, we have already achieved important results. Think of the 9 percent increase in living wage. [[Objections to the banks of the opposition]] Think of the effect of the tax shift in particular on low and medium wages. And we have gone further, over the past three years, in making decisions that affect capital more than income on labour. We have implemented and strengthened a Cayman tax. Decisions have been taken on furniture discounting and to strengthen the efforts that must be mobilized by all of us in the fight against tax fraud. And, as far as the security account tax is concerned, a decision was also taken in the context of a global political arbitration, at the heart of the summer. We have taken 50 socio-economic measures to deepen recovery and fair taxation. We have set a budgetary framework; it is our political ambition to achieve a budgetary objective within the framework of the measures identified. As far as parliamentary procedure is concerned, I ask that Parliament comply with the laws that were passed by itself shortly ago, for example, at the initiative of Ecolo-Groen. Parliament has indicated, with regard to the opinions of the Council of State, that we must broaden the publicity of these opinions, including towards royal decrees in the future, but which has also specified that the parliamentary method must lead the government to adopt a preliminary draft law at first reading, which has been done, well in advance of the usual deadlines. A request for a legal opinion should then be sent to the Council of State, so that the Government can take into account, at second reading, its legal comments, and then provide Parliament with a final text approved at second reading. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to respect the democratic parliamentary procedures, no more or less, and the texts that you yourself voted in 2016 to confirm that a text passes first at first reading, before being the subject of a legal opinion of the Council of State which will be taken into consideration, through careful work with government experts, so that decisions are credible at the political and legal level. At the heart of our project is more equitable development, more fair taxation and more capacity to meet the challenges we face. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u17	Mr Calvo, as the author of the motion, you will have the floor. I must point out, however, that the question is that the Minister should give his opinion on the matter. He's done that in the meantime. It is up to you to decide whether or not we should vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u18	Mr Prime Minister, you clearly did not understand our question. We are not asking for the opinion of the Council of State. After all, we have it. So we are not asking for it to be placed on the banks or published here before it is discussed in Parliament. That's not our question. In the meantime, the advice can be consulted on many news sites. The opinion literally indicates that if the measure in question is intended to tax the largest assets, the measure will not succeed. That doesn't say Green's study department. That is not what the trade unions are saying, which you have been so keen on for the last 48 hours. That's what the Council of State says. So we know that. What we do not know is what you will do with that advice. In 2016, you were late for the State of the Union. Mr Peeters then left the meeting of the nuclear cabinet for the sake of fiscal justice. The theme was at the heart of our debate. It has been at the heart of our debates for a whole year. For a whole year it has been above the social agenda, with a very broad call for fiscal justice. You have stated here that the government's response is the security tax. The majority's response is the securities tax. Today, the Council of State states that Michel, De Croo and Jambon's securities tax has no effect whatsoever. So our question, which we must vote on, remains as follows. What will the current majority do with the opinion? Will the design be modified or not? Will there finally be a substantial contribution of the greatest capabilities or not? That was our question yesterday. That is our question today. You can answer it today. Otherwise, we will continue to repeat the question here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u19	The vote is therefore requested on the point of order, as I have read it. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u20	Yes 62 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 143 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u21	Therefore, the point of order is dismissed. Consequently, the order motion was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u22	The next item is the vote on the motion of confidence tabled by the Prime Minister following the government statement. The next item is the vote on the motion of confidence tabled by the Prime Minister following the government's statement. I shall put this motion to the vote. I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote (Vote/vote 2) Yes 78 Yes No 61 No. Abstentions 1 Abstentions Total 140 Total The motion of confidence has been adopted. The motion of confidence was adopted. MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Luc Gustin voted in favour. M. Willy Demeyer a voté contre.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u23	By letter of 10 October 2017, the Senate informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of October 10, 2017, the Senate announced that it had constituted itself at its sitting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u24	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 September 2017, the curriculum vitae of candidates for the mandate of an effective French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services was sent to the political groups in place of Mr Gérald Vande Walle. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of September 6, 2017, the curriculum vitae of the candidates for the appointment as effective French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services – in place of Mr.Gérald Vande Walle – was transmitted to the political groups. Two applications were announced at the plenary session of 21 September 2017. Two nominations were announced in plenary on September 21, 2017. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 October 2017, the two candidates will be heard by the committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 October 2017, the Follow-up Committee of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee R will hold the hearing of the two candidates. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u25	The mandate of the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision, Ms Johanna Erard, expires on 5 January 2018. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new President. The term of office of the Chairperson of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services, Johanna Erard, expires on January 5, 2018. The House must therefore appoint a new Speaker. In accordance with Article 6 of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, the members of the P Committee are appointed for a renewable period of six years starting from their swearing-in. At the end of that period, members shall continue to perform their duties until their successor is sworn in. In accordance with article 6 of the Law of 18 July 1991 on the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis, the members of Committee P are appointed for a renewable term of six years, beginning with their swearing-in. At the end of this term, the members shall continue to hold office until the oath of office of their replacement. Article 4 (1) of the same Act provides that two alternates shall be appointed for each member of the P Committee. The Chamber should therefore also appoint a new first and second vice-chairmen. Article 4, first paragraph, of the same Law stipulates that for each member of the P Committee two alternates shall be appointed. The House must therefore appoint a first and a second alternate Speaker. With the exception of the president, the P Committee shall have the same number of members of the Dutch language as French speaking. The presidents of the P Committee and of the I Committee should have a different language role. With the exception of the Chair, the P Committee has as many French-speaking as Dutch-speaking members. The Chairs of the P Committee and the R Committee must have a different linguistic role. Since the current chairman of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services is French speaking, both the chairman and the first and second vice-chairmen of the P Committee should be Dutch speaking. Since the current Chair of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services is Francophone, both the Chair and the first and second alternate Chairs of the P Committee must be Dutch-speaking. The Chairman of the P Committee shall be a magistrate. The Chairman of Committee P must be a magistrate. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 October 2017, I propose that you publish an appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for both the mandate of the Chairman of the P Committee and for the mandates of the first and second vice-chairmen. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 October 2017, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Moniteur both for the term of office of Chairman of the P Committee and for the terms of office of first and second alternate President. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u26	The Conference of Presidents of 10 October 2017 shall postpone until 31 October 2017 the deadline for the submission of the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the circumstances which led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels National Airport and at Maalbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and approach of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat. The Conference of Presidents on 10 October 2017 proposes to the House of Representatives to postpone the final date for the tabling of the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels-National Airport and at the Maelbeek metro station in Brussels, including the evolution and management of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat, by 31 October 2017 at the latest. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u27	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on compensation for firms affected by the fipronil crisis, No. 2693/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the draft law on compensation for companies affected by the fipronil crisis, No. 2693/1. Before we take a decision on this request, I ask the government to justify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u28	Mr President, I believe that this request for urgency will not be a problem. The aim is to ensure that this project can be analysed as quickly as possible so that companies affected by the Fipronil crisis, whose survival is in question, can be supported under the provisions that we have set out in this bill and also in the orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u29	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u30	The interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for Defence of 4 October 2017. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on October 4, 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 229/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Hendrik Bogaert. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 229/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Alain Top; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge et Hendrik Bogaert. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, why are our soldiers helping the convict Gabon? That is a fair question from Mr Hendrik Bogaert in an opinion piece on Knack.be of 14 September 2017. On 14 September 2017, the European Union expressed opposition to Gabon's regime, which has suffered a humanitarian crisis since the 2016 elections and the doubts about its democratic development. The result is violence, intimidation of the opposition, attacks on freedom of the press and arbitrary arrests. One day after the strong condemnation by the European Union, Defense announced that 800 of our soldiers are moving to Gabon to train there with the soldiers of the regime. Our group understands all too well that training is necessary to prepare the military thoroughly for missions in conflict zones. It is morally unacceptable for us, however, to train our soldiers together with the Gabonese military. In this way, we indirectly support the cruel government practices in Gabon. With my motion, I would like to ask the government to send the right signal, to withdraw our military and to continue the training mission in another area. In addition, the motion aims to take into account humanitarian rights and their application by a regime before sending military for training assignments in other countries. The Minister should not argue whether there are African countries that respect democratic values. Ladies and gentlemen, one country is not the other. We agree that there is work to be done. However, we must support countries that build democratic values. Gabon is not an example of this, nor is Sudan. I hope that those Members of this House who want to defend humanitarian values will make the right choice. I also hope to receive more applause for my motion than the Prime Minister after the vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u32	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u33	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 62 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 143 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-12-54-plenair-ip190x.u34	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 19 October 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 19 October 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 19 October 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 19 October 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
