ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u1	Mr President, Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the current situation in the Fedasil centre in Jodoigne in my constituency. This centre, which was designed to accommodate 379 people with different profiles, is on the verge of saturation. The occupancy rate is about 94 per cent, given that 100 per cent is not possible due to the disposition of the rooms. Among the places currently occupied, 239 first-time arrivals are listed. This saturation is the result of the closure of structures that had been opened in emergency at the beginning of the migration crisis. The Fedasil centre does not appear to be an isolated case and the situation could worsen further as it appears that 3,000 places will still be abolished throughout the country in 2017. Mr Secretary of State, can you provide an update on the structures that you opened as a matter of urgency at the beginning of the crisis and that are currently closed? What do you plan to do if the occupancy rate increases further? I'm thinking specifically of the Fedasil center in Jodoigne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u2	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, here is an overview of the centres that have already closed their doors following the plan to dismantle the reception capacity: Vilvoorde, Holsbeek, Spa Barisart, Overijse, Saint-Hubert, Sijsele, Retie, Turnhout, Elsenborn, Berchem-Sainte-Agathe, Binche, Leopoldsburg, Walcourt, Mouscron, Jalhay (Spa d'Or), Weelde, Koksijde, Hechtel-Eksel, Zaventem, Zwijndrecht, Deinze, Mechelen, Couvin and Knesselare. The occupation of the Jodoigne reception centre is quite normal. For a total capacity of 379 places, there are currently 339 residents, equivalent to an occupancy rate of 89.4%. Although local fluctuations may exist in the occupancy of reception facilities, the overall occupancy of the reception network has remained declining in recent months and weeks. It currently stands at 89.13 per cent in collective bargaining. The total number of residents accommodated in the reception network rose from 27,490 at 1 July 2016 to 22,882 at the beginning of January. As of 10 March, it was 21 421. Finally, I would like to point out that the ongoing reduction in reception places is accompanied by the introduction of a large buffer capacity in order to anticipate any further increase in the number of persons to be accommodated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the Belgian contribution to the European relocation and resettlement plan. Like my question in January, the figures may no longer be relevant, but I am counting on you to update them if necessary. On 16 January 2017, Belgium welcomed 597 resettled refugees – this figure comes from the ninth assessment report made by the European Union – out of the 1,100 planned. As of November 2016, this figure was 519. It is therefore noted that little progress has been made, while other European countries have already fulfilled their full commitment (Sweden, the United Kingdom and Finland). The European Commission is threatening to impose sanctions in the face of the unwillingness of some States to fulfil their obligations. Belgium has thus fulfilled a little more than half of its commitment, while it appears that only 78% of its network is occupied. Why, therefore, do not fill the vacant places so that Belgium can fulfil the European obligations in this field and avoid the sanctions of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u5	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Crusnière, relocation and relocation are two different programs. The aim of relocation is to accommodate people already present in the European Union, namely Greece and Italy, in the rest of the European Union. Resettlement involves selecting and transferring refugees from a country outside the European Union where they have applied for protection to a third country that has previously agreed to grant them a sustainable right of residence. The 1100 quota referred to in the question was the resettlement quota and not the relocation quota. This quota has been set for the period 2016-2017. At the end of 2016, 597 people who are part of this quota were resettled. The intention is to complete the 2017 quota. In addition, an additional resettlement will be organised for Syrian refugees from Turkey, as part of the deal with Turkey. The quotas will therefore be fully met. The European assessments at the level of resettlement and relocation, as well as the commitment under the European Union-Turkey agreement, then take place. Operations were launched in April 2016. Operations are currently proceeding normally. This means that the load box is composed of about 150 people, which is feasible from an operational point of view for international and national partners. Several factors influence the implementation of resettlement operations, such as UNHCR's file submission capacity, the feasibility of selection and cultural orientation missions, IOM's operational capacity on the ground, refugee withdrawals or health problems that cause delays in transfer, etc. The local context in the country of asylum also influences the implementation of operations at Belgian level, such as the delays in issuing exit permits, the political and security context or the limited capacity of airport authorities. As regards reception in Belgium, suitable places are constantly sought and the large number of medical cases must be taken into account. Refugees stay for a few weeks in one of the four specialized reception centres where they benefit from a specific reception programme. After a period of six or seven weeks, a suitable place is sought in an ILA according to medical needs and possible family ties in Belgium. Thus, there is not only the overall reception capacity that counts but also the number of suitable spaces in the networks, as well as the capacity of the centres that specialize in the resettlement programme. Only in this way can the quality of the programme be guaranteed. With regard to reception places in collective centres, we are currently facing a occupancy rate of more than 90%. There are 145 Syrians who were selected in 2016 and have been transferred since the beginning of March 2017. There are still two families in this group who will be transferred quickly. Several selection missions were set up at the end of February in Jordan (172 people were selected) and in Turkey (107 people were selected). The cultural orientation mission to Jordan is scheduled for early April. The mission to Turkey was a selection mission in combination with a cultural orientation mission. The arrival of the group from Turkey and part of the group from Jordan is expected at the end of April. The second cultural selection and orientation mission to Turkey is scheduled for the end of March. As regards the relocation programme, on 13 March 458 people were relocated to Belgium. Today is the anniversary date of the beginning of the war in Syria, which began on March 15, 2011. It's been six years now. It is recalled that this was the "Arab Spring".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u6	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your very comprehensive answer. I take note of your willingness to fully meet the quotas. I think that we must continue to put pressure on your European counterparts to fill their share of the market too. I have the same speech to the Prime Minister when he comes to debrief the European Summit. I forgot to ask you a question. It concerns experts. Have they ever been sent back to the hotspot? They had returned from Greece for security reasons. The Prime Minister told me they were leaving again. Is that so?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u7	Yes, late April or early May, we will again send experts to the Greek islands.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez' 15930 has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 16404 by Mrs Sarah Smeyers has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u9	Mr President, Secretary of State, the Office of Foreigners has published the figures for expulsions carried out in 2016. An increase of 8% was observed compared to 2015. Last year, 10,907 foreigners were returned to their countries of origin. We can also note some 4,667 voluntary returns. Mr Secretary of State, can you give me an overview of the destination of the refugees who have been expelled from our country? More specifically, can you tell me on what criteria the Foreign Office considers a person to be expulsable or not? To tell you about the concrete case of an Armenian family in Rixensart with three children who suffered abuse in their country of origin, on 14 December the family received an order to leave the territory within 30 days, after having lived since 2008 in Belgium and been perfectly integrated. How can you explain such a decision? How can such expulsion to Armenia be justified when this family has already been subjected to abuse?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u10	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, Belgium does not carry out the expulsion of refugees but only of persons who do not enjoy or more than one right of residence in Belgium. In other words, illegal residents. Article 7 of the Aliens Act 1980 lists the cases in which an order to leave the territory may be issued. These include the following categories of aliens: persons who have initiated asylum proceedings which have resulted in a negative decision; persons who have stayed beyond the period allowed by their visa or travel documents; persons whose stay was limited in time and has not been extended; persons who have applied for a stay which has resulted in a refusal; persons whose presence in the territory is not or more desired because they have committed offences against public order or constitute a threat to national security; persons who have never applied for asylum but have been intercepted without the required residence documents. To get the numbers, you normally have to ask a written question, Mr Crusnière. The first criterion on which the Foreign Office relies to remove a person is, of course, the fact that the person is in an irregular stay. Other criteria which undoubtedly have an impact on the organization of a forced return are also taken into account by the Office of Foreigners: the person concerned has committed offences against public order; the person concerned constitutes a danger to national security; the person concerned has failed to comply with an order to leave the territory; the person concerned has lodged applications for multiple or systematically rejected residence or asylum; the person concerned has no address in Belgium. For privacy reasons, it is not possible to discuss individual files. The fact that you mention that this Armenian family has been ordered to leave the territory valid for 30 days means that it can always return on a voluntary basis and request assistance for voluntary return, as well as assistance for reintegration into the country of origin. This assistance can be used to seek employment and housing, to develop a micro-enterprise or to receive medical and psychological support in the country of origin. This is therefore a tailor-made aid that meets the specific needs of each family. If the family has been living in Belgium for some time, I suppose it has already started a series of proceedings which have ended with a negative result. The asylum procedure is reviewed by an independent legal entity, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, and the appeal is dealt with by an independent administrative tribunal, namely the Foreign Litigation Council. Had the family really had to be protected, it would have been granted the status of recognized refugees or subsidiary protection. I would add that, when examining regularisation procedures, the criteria mentioned in Articles 3 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights are also taken into account. Like adult individuals, families are required to follow up on an order to leave the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u12	Madam President, Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the increase in detentions in closed centres and the living conditions in these centres. The CIRE recently published a report on detention in a closed centre. One of the first observations of this report is that the number of detainees in these centres increased in 2015 and 2016. Ten thousand additional places were created in 2016 and more are planned for 2017. Among those detained, it is not uncommon to find vulnerable persons, namely children (in 2015, 79 families were detained, including 120 minors), sick or disabled persons, persons suffering psychologically from their remoteness, detention or the horrors experienced in their country of origin. Most people in a closed centre are irregularly staying in Belgium. In some cases, they are detained in a centre after receiving an order to leave the territory, despite the fact that they have lived for many years in Belgium. The majority of people are expelled on their way out, only 20 per cent are released. The proportion of evictions increased from 71.8 per cent in 2004 to 77.7 per cent in 2014. The CIRE report also highlights the harsh living conditions in closed centres. Prisoners are often subjected to arbitrary treatment. The isolation cell is used on an unmotivated basis. They were not informed of their rights, such as the right to complain about conditions of detention. In fact, for 2014, only 28 complaints were lodged. Detention in a closed centre is misused, while other initiatives, such as return homes, are in place. Psychological violence is often observed. There is no systematic monitoring of the legality of detentions. Mr Secretary of State, how do you explain this increase in the occupation in closed centres and the detention of children and minors? New places in closed centres are to be created this year. Why this choice? In other European countries, detention in a closed centre is an alternative among others. Why does Belgium almost systematically decide on detention in a closed centre? An alternative solution could, for example, be found for more vulnerable people, such as the sick and the disabled. Can you also explain to me more fully why the Foreign Office does not use independent physicians to test the residents of the centres? Currently, the CIRE fears a physician's empathy with the Foreign Office. A lot of width is observed in the issue of "fit to fly" certificates. Can you give me an overview of the information that a person arriving in a closed centre receives? Is she informed of the various remedies available against the detention decision made against her? Are persons in this case informed of the steps to be taken to apply for asylum?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u13	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, the overall capacity of closed centres in 2015 ranged from 440 to 528 places, an average of 471 places. In 2016, it was between 561 and 583, an average of 577 places. The decrease in capacity in 2015 is mainly due to infrastructure work in the centres and a lack of staff. With the completion of the work, capacity in the centres was increased. There has never been a 10,000-seat increase. There is a monitoring mechanism in closed centres, especially with regard to isolation, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 2 August 2002, which establishes the regime and operation of closed centres. Each isolation shall be justified in fact and in law on the basis of Articles 97 and 98 of the Royal Decree of 2002. Each 48-hour isolation shall be submitted to the Director General.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u14	It is also worth mentioning the efforts made in front-line legal aid within the centres, which depends on the bars. In addition, residents have the opportunity to lodge complaints with the centre's management and the Complaints Commission. It is important to note that NGOs visit the centres and meet regularly with the management. At no time did they report any cases of abuse at the end of their visit. Since 2008, minors have not been kept in a closed centre. Families with illegal minors are housed in open individual accommodation, where they are accompanied by coaches. In 2016, 22 persons declared themselves unaccompanied minors in closed centres. After examination of the wrist, 17 minors were confirmed and taken over by the guardianship service. The government agreement plans to increase the number of removals. It should be noted that many persons in an illegal situation are ordered to leave the territory. If they do not comply, they may be held in a closed centre for removal. Alternatives to detention are effective, such as the house of return in Holsbeek, which hosted several families from June to December 2015 and in 2016, 42 of whom left by their own means and 19 with the help of the International Organization for Migration. Since the end of 2014, the Office of Foreigners has undertaken home coaching of families with minors. Families in an irregular situation remain, as a first step, at their home where they are informed and assisted by coaches as part of their return to the country of origin. If this alternative to detention does not produce results, it may be decided to keep them in an open place of accommodation of the Agency, where they will be assisted again with a view to their return to their country. When families escape from the open place of accommodation, it is planned, in the event of interception, to keep them in family units in a secure environment. The Agency will continue to use the above-mentioned cascade system and to encourage families with illegal minors to return to home coaching and to stay in an open accommodation area as much as possible. Closed retention will only be used as a last resort. I have already made this very clear. Currently, 12 doctors work independently in closed centres. To date, there is no indication of their independence or the quality of their work. As stipulated in article 53 of the Royal Decree of 2002, the doctor attached to the centre shall maintain his professional independence from the director of the centre. Its assessments and decisions relating to the health of occupants are based solely on medical criteria. The occupant may make use of the physician of his or her choice, at his or her own expense, and must notify the physician of the centre. Finally, when a foreigner arrives in a closed centre, he receives all the information during the administrative intake, including the reception DVD available in five languages, the internal rules of procedure, information on the reason for the retention and the possibility of appeal against retention and removal, the appeal procedure in extreme urgency, legal assistance, the complaint procedure with the Complaints Commission and the management of the centre and the contact details of NGOs. The information is available on fact sheets translated into some fifteen languages. The explanation is also given orally. In addition, the information is available in audio in 15 languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smeyers' 16524 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Coninck's 16870 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 16892 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u17	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in order to tackle a number of abuses of the asylum procedure, the Reception Act provides for a number of possibilities for individuals who submit multiple asylum applications not to receive reception in the first instance. According to the law and its case-law, this can only be done under certain conditions. In practice, however, we see that the conditions are not always respected. The result is that those involved, often families with children, will be on the streets. Article 4 of the Reception Act makes it very clear that reception may be refused in the case of multiple asylum applications, second, third or umpteenth period of admissibility. If it turns out that the file is admissible, it is necessary to re-establish reception at the well-founded stage. Even at that stage of admissibility, one cannot simply refuse care without motivation. The law clearly states that reception can only be refused if there is abuse. This was confirmed by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 30 June 2014, in which it ruled on Fedasil's approach. According to the Court, Article 4 can only be invoked where there is abuse and the application is only intended to extend the stay in the care facility, while there are no new elements and the new application is not justified. That is certainly not always the case. The figures show that the degree of recognition of many people who submit a second and sometimes even a third application is quite high. So not everyone who makes a second application is automatically someone who wants to abuse the situation. However, it can be seen that Fedasil automatically refuses reception in the case of a second application. Article 4 of the Reception Act makes it very clear that, each time one refuses reception, one must motivate this individually. The vulnerability of the people themselves must always be taken into account. However, there it often seems to go wrong. Fedasil often turns out not to motivate the refusals, and I have already received a lot of signals about this. It is said to those concerned that they can appeal to the labour court. This is true and many people are right there, but that does not relieve an administration of its obligation to comply with the law and to justify any decision. Fedasil may be right and people can abuse the asylum procedure, which leads Fedasil to believe that no reception should be provided. I am not going to comment on specific cases. It's up to Fedasil to judge this, but they have to motivate it. If they do not do so, they will send everyone to the labour court, thereby increasing the burden there. If, in the end, the court agrees with the person concerned, they must be taken back, with all the consequences. Sometimes that place has already been taken and one has to go to another shelter. Finally, asylum seekers who no longer have the right to receive reception are entitled to a decent standard of living and to urgent medical assistance. This must, of course, always be guaranteed, especially when there are weak people, such as children, in play. My questions to the Secretary of State are therefore the following. Have you heard of the fact that Fedasil very often does not motivate his decisions not to provide care individually as prescribed by law? Will you urge Fedasil to do this in the future? So I'm not saying there are no cases of abuse. We amended that law once because we found that there was some abuse, but the decision has to be justified and we note that it goes wrong in that statement of reasons. Secondly, are you not afraid that the absence of the individual justification by Fedasil will lead to more appeals in the labour court? These professions could easily be avoided. Thirdly, are all multiple asylum applications considered abuse by Fedasil? Are applicants therefore always automatically excluded from reception? If you don't, can you give me the numbers? In how many cases does Fedasil say in a second or third application that it will provide further care? Or is the principle that every subsequent application for reception is refused anyway? If everyone is automatically excluded from reception, what will you do with the 2014 ruling of the Constitutional Court? Do you take that into account? Do you ask Fedasil to take this into account and at least motivate the decisions? Fourthly and finally, we have registered in the law that everyone is entitled to a decent standard of living and to urgent medical assistance. How do you guarantee this, especially when it comes to families with children? That's a vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u18	Mrs Lanjri, I do have knowledge of this. It is not easy for Fedasil to assess multiple asylum applications on the basis of abuse, as Fedasil is not aware of the asylum story. Where the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless (CGVS) finds that the multiple application for asylum contains new elements, it shall take a decision to consider the application for asylum. From the decision to consider, Fedasil shall collect the persons concerned during the examination of the multiple asylum application. In the case of vulnerable profiles, Fedasil also provides reception during the admissibility phase. The limitation of the right to material aid during the examination of multiple asylum applications does not result in an increase in the number of appeals to the labour bank. During the last 12 months, no more than 15 appeals were brought against a decision limiting material aid. Should we stop doing so tomorrow, I do not think that the legal delay would suddenly have been resolved. I agree that the courts already have enough work to do. Some courts have a lot of work, some courts have very little work since the establishment of the family court. You know that too, but that is something completely different; this is not the Justice Committee here. With 15 files a year, I don't think there's a problem. Fedasil does not systematically refuse material aid and, for example, takes into account the vulnerability of individuals when deciding to restrict the right to material aid. You're asking for numbers. I don't have any. However, the vulnerability is looked at and sometimes it is decided to give shelter, even though they are at the admissibility stage and no decision has yet been taken on that admissibility. After submitting the second or the tenth application for asylum, the CGVS must first assess that admissibility. During this phase, care can indeed be provided. Fedasil looks at the vulnerability of the persons involved. The right to human standard of living is not currently provided for in the Reception Act. In the future legislative amendment to the 2013 Reception Directive, this will be registered in the Reception Act of 12 January 2007. It is currently examining how this right will be provided for in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, a few elements of reply. You say Fedasil doesn't always motivate. So at that point, you say that it is true that Fedasil does not always motivate when it is provided for in the law. I believe that this is already an important problem. You say that this also has to do with, for example, the fact that Fedasil is not always aware of the elements of the file, it does not have to be about the cases that I know or have been alerted to when it concerns, for example, families who have been in a shelter for a few years and who are making a second application. It is hard to imagine that Fedasil does not know the situation of a family who has been living in a Fedasil shelter for years. Mr Secretary of State, I think you should really urge Fedasil to motivate every dossier anyway. Everyone has to follow the laws, including Fedasil. If there is still a lack of legislation, it may need to be adapted. However, the legislation provides for a duty of motivation and Fedasil must also abide by it and not hide behind excuses that are not there. For a family that spends several years in a center one cannot say that one cannot motivate it individually. I'll follow you when you say Fedasil takes into account the vulnerability. In fact, that should be the case, but if a family with children is thrown out, then I find that this vulnerability is not taken into account. The law provides that account must be taken of the vulnerability of those concerned. After all, it is often about families with children who are thrown out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u20	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u21	No, but they are here, Mr Secretary of State. I have children, you have children. Every child unjustly thrown out on the street is one too many.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u22	(...) unjustified multiple asylum applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u23	Yes, but... you agree with me that we have written that in the law and that the law must be respected. It says that...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u25	But it must be motivated!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u26	It's motivated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u27	No, it's not motivated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u28	Not always individually, because that's not obvious to Fedasil. There have been 15 appeals in 12 months. That's what it's about. I also read it in the newspaper: you blow things up into improbable proportions, as you often do. Anyway, no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, it is not justified. There have been cases of families with children, if you like, I can give you examples; I will say this to the sector known by Fedasil, who have been around for years, who have not been motivated. That's what I'm talking about. I have no problem with the abuse being dealt with. I have no problem with it that, if there is abuse, Fedasil therefore refuses to take care of it, but then Fedasil must simply motivate that decision as the law dictates. We may ask the same thing. It is difficult to say that our own administrations are allowed to ignore the law. You probably agree with that. I therefore hope that you will now urge your administration to do the same. I hope that this will also be a point that we are looking at in the Fedasil screening. The DVZ is also being vetted. The audit of the DVZ and Fedasil is in the coalition agreement. He's busy, and that's good. I hope that such bottlenecks can also emerge and that they can be remediated. Actually, you can already do something about it by asking Fedasil to do this for sure. For the record, I am not saying that the problem has just arisen, because there is indeed a case law of 2014, when you were just Secretary of State. So the problem also occurred earlier. If we know, I think we should do something about it. Just ask Fedasil to motivate the decisions. There are cases where Fedasil rightly says: no shelter. However, there are other cases where Fedasil refuses to accept care unjustly where he is not allowed to do so. Any decision taken by Fedasil must be justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u30	Mrs Lanjri, first of all, that amendment was adopted in 2012. I don't remember approving that, but you are if I'm not mistaken. So that's been a problem for quite some time now, not really a problem, but an issue where Fedasil sometimes finds it difficult to motivate individually. It is motivated but not always individual because it is not always obvious. It is not because a family has been living in an asylum centre for two years that individual motivation is so easy. The asylum decision is not served on the services of Fedasil but only on the family. Fedasil has no idea of the Commissioner-General's decision. Fedasil has no knowledge of that. Secondly, given that there are very few appeals, I believe that the matter is under control. I'm not saying there's no business going wrong. In the meantime, on two years of reception policy, I have learned that things go wrong. If 36 000 people are on the reception network, if more than 60 000 people are taken care of in a number of years, sometimes things go wrong. No one's without mistakes. I don't know if you're insinuating it, but it seems like there's a big problem here, especially when I read it this morning: there's got to be an audit of Fedasil. You know that these audits run by Fedasil and the DVZ. You're aware of that. I said that in Parliament. Maybe you weren't there at the time, but I've said that several times. So these cases are running. I think Fedasil is very conscientious about these things and not putting families with children on the street for his pleasure. On the contrary, I think that the Agency shows the necessary flexibility, but here and there a decision is perhaps being made which you say is not correct and which I think is worth considering and a third of which says that it is entirely justified. That's life, that's human. What do you want me to do? I will arrange this at our meeting on Monday morning at 8 a.m. 00 with the administration summit and I will record it with Mr Luxen. You have my word that I will examine with him whether we can use the individual motivation, especially for families, a little more to reduce the procedures before the labour court to zero. Of course, there will always be people who are not satisfied that their shelter stops. Two years of practice also teaches me that some people who sometimes have children are not always of good will. It is a nuanced story, but you have my commitment that this will be discussed with Mr Luxen on Monday at 8:30. I will certainly ask him explicitly to pay particular attention to this in the case of families. I understand that this is particularly your question. I'll take that and I'll listen to what you say and ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u31	You are talking about 15 appeals in the large number of asylum applications and the fact that this is not much. It is true that this may not be much, but it also knows that unfortunately not everyone appeals. There are also families that don't do this. Even with this small number of 15, I insist on the need to correct any errors in the area of lack of motivation. We simply have to make sure that this motivation is there. I repeat, I am not accusing Fedasil of unjustly evicting everyone. I'm not saying that! I'm just saying that in some cases, Fedasil has reasons to put people out on the street. That is not a problem, but do what the law requires, namely: motivate that decision. I believe that contact can be made at such a time with the care centre where the family is located, or with the Commissioner-General, for any additional elements, but it is necessary to justify his decision. I have seen cases where no justification was given at all. I am counting on you to raise this problem on Monday and it will be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u32	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on 24 February, the Council of Ministers approved one of your bills, which would aim, among other things, to punish lawyers who are guilty of abuse of procedure in the law of foreigners. In concrete terms, convictions for abuse of procedure would be systematically communicated to the batnier, who could initiate disciplinary proceedings and possibly deprive lawyers of their pro deo fees. The judge should determine whether he or she imposes a fine on the lawyer for the abuse of process. It will explain the amount of the fine to be paid, which may vary between 125 and 2,500 euros. This announcement sparked, more than just a protest, a great deal of excitement among French-speaking, Dutch-speaking and German-speaking bar associations. It is a first to see lawyers punished in a personal capacity for proceedings that would be deemed abusive. When the time comes, we will look carefully at your project and check what the advice of the Council of State will give. Nevertheless, we would like to have some information already. Mr Secretary of State, you seem to be very assertive about the proliferation of procedural abuses. On what basis do you support your argument that abuse of procedure is frequent in the law of foreigners? Do you have accurate statistics? Have you communicated to the bar associations or authorities any specific cases of proceedings that you or the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers consider to be abusive and on which you base your project? The batons recalled by means of a communiqué that over the past ten years, a number of totally insignificant cases of complaints had been filed in their hands. Moreover, according to the press release, you have never responded to their request to be exposed to the really problematic cases. So I want to have some factual information before I do the legal analysis of your bill at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u33	Mr President, honourable Member, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. The fight against abuse is one of the pillars of the government agreement, which I therefore strictly apply. The draft law on combating manifestly abusive proceedings before the Foreign Litigation Council is part of this. It is also in the interest of the foreigner. This bill consists only of a procedural simplification of section 39/73-1, introduced by the Act of 29 December 2010. This simplification is necessary since practice has shown that this Article is rarely applied. Indeed, since 2011, only 20 judgments imposing a fine have been handed down. Given the considerable workload of the Commission and the fact that the costs associated with organizing a separate hearing often exceed the amount of the fine that may be imposed, the parties are no longer called for a fine in certain cases, even though there is a clear issue of abuse. The practice also shows that, at times, the party who brought a manifestly abusive appeal does not act upon the summons for an appearance at the second hearing which, in these circumstances, is of no use. It is easier for a party to be already confronted with indications that the action brought is manifestly unfair at the hearing during which the appeal is examined. This will enable this party to make its views known immediately. This practice is already in force. However, under the current legislation, a possible fine can only be imposed after a second hearing. That's where the problem lies. The examination at the same hearing of the action brought, of its possible abuse and, consequently, of the imposition of a fine, makes it possible to act more quickly and firmly. The letters were sent to the batons, but I am not in a position to provide you with the exact figures in this regard. On the other hand, I can inform you of the twenty judgments handed down between 2012 and 2016 in which a fine was served. You will find them on the website of the Foreign Litigation Council, since this information is public. The rights of the defence are not compromised. The parties will, in any event, have the opportunity to take a position, at the hearing, on the evidence demonstrating the manifestly abusive nature of the appeal. The principle of adversarial debate is assured. The independence of the lawyer is in no way compromised. An appeal to the Council of State for cassation is still possible. The Council of State will give an opinion on my bill. There's not much to worry about. We've had meetings with the different Bar Associations and we'll have a lot more. It is necessary to achieve a concrete result. For example, the Bar Associations agree, it would be welcome to provide training to young lawyers, trainees and even students in law schools on the law of foreigners. As you know, Mr. Maingain, almost all young interns are assigned files concerning foreigners. In addition, it is an optional subject, for the time being, which is detrimental to the quality of the advice. It is not in the interests of foreigners, nor in the interests of society, nor in the interests of my administration. It cannot be said that the proceedings are abusive, but that it is possible to improve the law of foreigners. On the other hand, we are in dialogue with the Bar Associations and I am sure that we will achieve real results. I do not agree when they say they have not received documents or examples of abuse. That's incorrect. We sent them to my office at a meeting in December. Now, I will return all cases by recommendation, to be sure that we can no longer claim not to have received them. I want to be constructive. Everyone camps in their positions. But I reiterate that the fight against abuses in the law of foreigners will continue. I was also very clear at the press conference that followed the Council of Ministers: not all lawyers are involved. Many lawyers are of good will and do good work in this difficult, very complex matter. We must fight, together with the Orders, with the batons, with the abuses, in the interests of foreigners. I can only repeat it again and again: it is also in the interest of foreigners!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u34	I thank the Minister for his frank answer. I still have a few observations. The legal basis will be discussed in due course. We will see the advice of the Council of State. We will see if sanctioning the lawyer himself is compatible with the status of lawyer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u35	There's no sanction for the lawyer, Mr. Maingain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u36	Ah? That's not what we understand the Orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u37	There is no sanction! We're not going to punish lawyers. It was also very clear in the press release after the press conference. It was very clear, we're talking about a self-regulation system. Then that's an absolute misunderstanding. I never said I'd sanction lawyers. It's a self-regulatory system. What are we gonna do? What we need to do, I think, is to inform the batons more quickly, to be clearer with the legal aid offices for pro deo and to inform them more quickly. That's our responsibility. But it is not my responsibility, nor that of the Foreign Office to attack or punish lawyers. It's a 'zelfregulerend' system. What we need to do is let us know faster. And you're right, there was a misunderstanding in the communication. A misunderstanding in communication. That's absolutely true.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u38	I hear. Your precision is important. Honestly, that's what went through the press, that's what the lawyers themselves... I'm reading the lawyers' press release. The two cupolas of the bar associations, both French-speaking and Dutch-speaking, say "it has been learned that the government decides to approve a bill proposed by Secretary of State Mr. Franken, whose aim is to punish lawyers who are guilty of abuse of procedure in respect of the rights of foreigners." The amount I put forward, I didn't make it up, it's press information. Honestly, if you had submitted your draft legislation to the two associations of French- and Dutch-speaking bar associations, no doubt that all this misunderstanding would not have been born and that there would have been no misinterpretation or, in any case, erroneous information would not have circulated. Perhaps you should have done some upstream consultation with the bars. You're telling us there was a meeting in December. I don't know who was present at this meeting in your office. I guess they were representatives of the bar to talk about this bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u39	We had two meetings. I had a meeting with the staff member of Brussels, the President of the Brussels Legal Assistance Office, and I believe one or two lawyers. That was October or November. A meeting was then held in my cabinet at the beginning of December. I can still get you the date and the exact list of the attendees. The attendees were among others the President of the Order of Flemish Balies. I understand what you're saying. Why wasn't the bill delivered in advance? Because I wanted it approved by the government first. That's the line I'm following. It's my policy. I never pass on my bills until there is a consensus in the government. Not to NGOs for asylum procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u40	That I can understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u41	Not to the NGOs. I'm not doing that. It is the Council of Ministers that decides, that is the prerogatives of politics. Is there a consultation? Yeah, sometimes. However, I am not going to spread or send out my draft laws to ask for comments in advance. So far, my draft laws have been maintained; none of them have been destroyed by the Constitutional Court. I therefore believe that I have done quite good legal work so far. However, I understand the question. Is there a misunderstanding in communication? Yes. It'll be cleared up. The draft law is now delivered after its adoption. I will also give you the press release, in French. There's clearly no mistake in that. It's about self-regulation. I admit that it is perhaps because of what I have said in the past that they have immediately taken a hedgehog stand and that there has been an immediate counter-reaction. I admit that. I also understand that the Order of French-speaking Bar is asking for a meeting. That has been explicitly requested and I will organise it in the coming weeks. Mr Maingain, I can be very clear on the following. I think we're getting stronger together from training young lawyers. After all, every young lawyer comes into contact with foreigners' files and often they do not know how to deal with them at all. Not at all. The legal work is not good because they do not know it, they never learned it. The foreign law is hugely complex. So let us take that step together. I keep repeating it, there are abuses and they need to get out. However, that is a small group but there is. I know that some lawyers will file dozens of appeals in one month without assistance. Well, I myself only sleep four hours a night and you may not sleep much either because you work hard too. But in one month without assistance, filing dozens of appeals, that's physically impossible. Those who wish to deal with such cases in depth cannot submit 50 or 60 appeals within one month. It's impossible to do that right. I don't believe that. They do that all by themselves, with no assistant or interns. On top of that comes all the other work. Everyone knows that there are certain issues where questions can be asked. I will continue to raise the issue. However, it is important that we achieve results together with the order and do not go against each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u42	I take note of your willingness to ensure better consultation with the orders. When you participate in the debate in the parliamentary committee, we will ask you many questions. I note 20 judgments of the Foreign Litigation Council. If you give me the list, it will still make it easier for me to search the web. This is not major, and I am aware that there are probably cases of abuse. I'm not here to defend abuses. I have no sympathy for the people who pull on the rope trying to escape the proper course of the procedure. Perhaps the Registry of the Litigation Council could give you statistics. You say that there are applicants who do not even appear at the hearing or who do not even present their arguments within the time limits imposed on them by the procedure. It would be interesting to have that kind of data. How much, what percentage of the total number of applications submitted to the Litigation Council does this represent? We still need to objectiveize the information. I'm getting to know a little about the way the government works. It produces a considerable publicity effect. "Let's get it right." Then, when we approach reality, we realize that it is marginal, or at least not very significant. And in the meantime, the announcement effect has been made. A certain public opinion likes that. I'm not fooled by this game. This gives this opinion the feeling that it is over to follow procedures for some applicants for rights related to the status of aliens. Public opinion holds that we're going to do the big cleanup. In fact, all this will be relatively insignificant. So, I want to be clear about the reality of things. We will certainly have an opportunity to discuss this again when we consider your bill. I note, in terms of information, the major fact of the day as far as you are concerned: there would be no sanctions, financial amounts for lawyers who would be suspected of assisting in abusive proceedings. We will check all this when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic619x.u43	That is how we have finished our agenda. The sitting can therefore be closed.
