ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u1	Since ladies Temmerman and Dedry are present and Mr Nollet is coming a little later, we can start with their combined questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u2	Madam President, Minister, there is no doubt that air pollution is an invisible but very effective killer. Research has shown that an estimated 12 500 people die prematurely in our country as a result of air pollution. To make it a little more tangible, every hour in our country someone dies from air pollution. In general, air pollution costs us all on average nine months of our lives, which is not little. Air pollution acts acutely and for a long time on our bodies, leading to problems with the airways and cardiovascular diseases. Researchers have also found a positive correlation between air pollution and all kinds of cancers and even dementia. The same researchers also point to the consequences for born and unborn children, namely lower birth weight, less developed lungs, poor performance on cognitive tests and so on. In short, the impact of air pollution on humans is simply disastrous. The political approach to air pollution leaves room for improvement. At the beginning of February, the European Commission published its country reports describing the main challenges and opportunities in the implementation of environmental policy for each Member State. The aim of the reports is to encourage Member States to engage in a positive debate on common environmental challenges for the European Union and on the most effective ways to address the main implementation gaps. According to the Commission, 23 of the 28 Member States of the European Union have failed to comply with European air quality laws. The European Commission is therefore concerned about the limited progress made by Member States in achieving the limit values set by EU legislation. In recent years, the European Commission has taken legal action against a number of Member States, including our country, for non-compliance with air quality standards. I have the following questions. Can you explain more about the Belgian country report of the European Commission? What conclusions do you draw from the European Commission's findings? What measures will you take to meet European air quality requirements in the short term? Has the European Commission recently threatened to take legal action against our country? Are the proposed measures sufficient for the European Commission to avoid legal action? Last but not least, how is the cooperation with the regional fellow Members of the Environment Committee going? There too there must be cooperation if we are to improve air quality in our country. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u3	Madam President, Minister, I had put this question to Minister De Block, but the question has been referred to you. So I hope you will not refer me back, but reply. Since I am being referred to you, I hope you do not answer that you are not competent. As my colleague says, an article has been published in Metro that says that the Belgians lose a lot of hours in traffic. On average, this fileleed reduces life by nine months due to air pollution. Improving air quality is therefore both an issue of the environment and of public health. On 4 April 2017, the European Parliament's Committee of Inquiry adopted a final report with very good conclusions and recommendations. It has become a very strong final report, which is also very critical of the role of some Member States and of the European Commission. It is incomprehensible that the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry are apparently not being transposed into European legislation. Moreover, only independent supervision can completely separate governments from the automotive industry and its interests. Madam Minister, will you take the final report of the European Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to heart? Will you translate the conclusions into legislation, with or without an independent monitoring committee? A year ago, on 28 April 2016, we adopted over 50 recommendations following the Dieselgate Committee. Where are we on these recommendations? In the Netherlands, schools, crèches and hospitals are recommended to be located at least 300 metres from highways. Do you also intend to introduce such a measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u4	Mrs Dedry, first of all I would like to pay full attention to the report of the European Parliament's Committee of Inquiry on Dieselgate and its recommendations. I fully support the Belgian position vis-à-vis the European authorities. I support greater representativeness of the emission tests and, if necessary, a second step in strengthening standards. Air quality is a major challenge for public health and the environment. Like the fight against climate change, the fight against air pollution is the subject of a transversal policy involving both the Ministers of Environment and Health and the Ministers of Mobility of the Federal Government and the Regions, as well as those responsible for the Spatial Planning to take measures such as those in the Netherlands, which you mentioned. Everyone must take this issue into account within the framework of their powers. It is in that spirit that I consult with the Regions in the framework of the Energy Pact, the national debate on carbon pricing and the National Energy Climate Plan 2030. With regard to the legal infringement procedure you mentioned, Mrs Temmerman, the exchange of information between the regions is continuing. The Commission has not yet taken a decision on whether or not to refer the matter to the Court. The federal government has taken major steps forward in terms of air quality, despite its limited powers of mobility, taxation and product standards, by reforming the system for commercial vehicles and by favouring the allocation of a mobility budget. This is a first important step which is complemented by other measures in favour of the use of the electric bicycle. A draft transport plan 2017-2020 was also presented to my cabinet. I am very pleased with the efforts made to strengthen regional transport around the major cities and to optimise the connections. These progressive measures must change our behaviour and ensure that we make greater use of soft mobility and public transport. As you know, Minister Bellot wants to complete the RER as soon as possible so that users could call on increased capacity. These measures should be supplemented by regional measures. I think it is very positive that my colleague regularly sits with the Regions to work towards an integrated approach to mobility policy. Indeed, consultation and cooperation between the entities are essential to address these problems. With regard to product standards, my department also supports the efforts of the Regions, whether in the context of the heaters or in establishing a strict framework for the quality of solid raw materials. In this logic, we will continue to examine the requests of the regions in terms of limiting air pollution, where the activation of federal powers could prove to be efficient. In this context, for the transposition of the new NEC Directive, we are examining the possibility of a cooperation agreement with the Regions to define the federal measures to be implemented by 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u5	Madam President, Minister, it is in any case a good thing that you acknowledge the problem and make a number of commendable efforts to do something about it effectively. A problem remains that is always the case in relation to environmental matters: the division of competence, the complexity of our country, the need to agree with the regions. Of course air quality does not stop in the regions. But even more, some of the powers lie effectively with them, local public transport and so on. Of course, that doesn't make it easy. We are absolutely in favour of the mobility budget. We still have to wait and see how this government will work out, because I do not have the impression that it will go mainly to the alternatives. Once again, we have not yet seen the relevant texts. We will therefore have to look at how this will be done effectively. You also refer to your colleague Bellot. Well, that's a federal jurisdiction. By saving on SNCB one will not really encourage the use of public transport. You refer to the GEN around Brussels. But those around the other major cities in Belgium are far from progressing. The regional transport of SNCB is even being phased out rather than built up. The reason given then is that it has to be transferred to the Regions, where local public transport companies, namely De Lijn voor Vlaanderen and the TEC for Wallonia, have to take over. I do not know the situation for Wallonia, but there is enormous savings in Flanders. So there's no progress in that either. We need to think urgently about the alternatives. After all, it is not enough to say that alternatives will be promoted; it must also be done effectively. I'm sorry, but federally, too, this is happening too little. It certainly does not happen at regional level, and I am referring to Flanders because I do not know Wallonia sufficiently. But it also happens too little at federal level. If we want to make this change for the people, we need to focus on those alternatives. You mentioned the electric bike. That is certainly a very good alternative in the future. I agree with that. But for the longer distances and for the people who can no longer cycle, because there are also, one will still need public transport. We are absolutely going to have to step up our efforts. I hope you will be able to convince all your fellow Members, your federal but also your regional.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u6	Madam President, Minister, I agree with Mr Temmerman's reply. The positive thing is that you recognise the problem and point out the transversal nature of the dossier, but I hear far too often consultation, consultation and consultation. That is necessary, but the strength of action is lacking to a large extent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u7	Mr. Calvo will be here in 15 minutes. I'll call Mr. Nollet to come ask his questions. Questions Nos 18192 and 18496 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions. I will now ask my own question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u8	Minister, on January 28, 2016, we adopted a resolution to strengthen the fight against illegal timber trade. It's been over a year. Time passes! Among the requests contained in this resolution was the strengthening of the surveillance and control capacity of the Belgian competent authority for the application of this famous European Union Wood Regulation (EURB). This should involve the engagement of additional inspectors within the Environment FPS and the devolution of one person and additional working time on this particular issue of illegal timber trade. Similarly, the resolution called for effective and dissuasive sanctions for the offences found, and for the failure to put in place a system of reasonable diligence. This would have required the presence of staff to be able to do so. Where are we? Could you give me a chronology of these commitments and the time spent on these missions? In its resolution, the Chamber also called for the strengthening of controls; however, there were only five controls in 2016 after the adoption of the resolution and two since the beginning of 2017, apparently on complaints. In fact, I think that Belgium works almost only on complaints. At the same time, Germany carried out between 150 and 200 checks. How do you explain this lack of controls, given the quantities of wood imported into Belgium from countries at risk? The EUSR shall request Member States to report every two years on its implementation. This report is due in April of this year, and I think you did. I would like to know the elements of this biennial report to the European Commission. This report should benefit from more transparency or include more explanatory elements on risk assessment methods and control reporting, also aimed at improving consumer and sector information. Could we have this study? Could you comment on its content? Could you inform us of the progress made in response to the request for transparency? Finally, according to information distributed around April, the Danish competent authority ordered companies in that country to suspend the placing on the market of teak wood from Burma. Indeed, in the absence of information from the Burmese authorities on the origin of the timber or the legal nature of the cuts, the EUSR cannot be applied. In Belgium, at least two companies - Crown-Teak and Vandecastele Houtimport - would be affected by teak shipments from Burma. Do you confirm these imports to me in recent years? What measures are being taken to enforce the Wood Regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u9	Madam President, at the time of the entry into force in Belgium of the EU Timber Regulation No EU995/2010 in 2014, my inspection service responsible for the various federal environmental legislations did not have the capacity to carry out the controls on this regulation, given the large workload of this service and the increasing number of legislations to be monitored. Therefore, as a temporary solution, the controls were initially carried out by the person in charge of the overall monitoring of the timber policy. This person's work programme provided for 20 days of inspection per year, which is low, given the number of wood imports into Belgium. As the minister responsible for these matters, I chose to release the necessary budgets in order to improve the working capacity of DG Environment's inspection department, which was not obvious in times of budgetary restraint. Since the fight against illegal timber trade is a very important issue for me, I have foreseen that part of this additional inspection capacity will be dedicated to the monitoring of the EU timber regulation. The adoption of the resolution of 28 January 2016 was an important step towards better implementation of this regulation. Commitments are scheduled for September. The new employees will undergo training and will be operational by the end of 2017. Inspections of the EU Wood Regulation, the Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade (FLEGT) Regulation and the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) will be linked and carried out by the same team of five inspectors. Given the current understaffing, we do not have a specialized inspector and we only control the trade on the basis of complaints, until the service is restructured and strengthened at the end of this year. The system of reasonable diligence, which reduces the risk of illegal wood being introduced, is subject to interpretation. It is therefore not always easy to draw up a report. My administration also concludes the report for the European Commission, which I will forward as soon as possible. As far as Burma teak is concerned, we carried out two inspections. I can't tell you any more since the offences are being processed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. You will have understood that my diligent follow-up in this area serves, or would like to serve, to strengthen the teams responsible for this file and inspection; these teams could be proactive if they were in sufficient numbers and capacity to carry out their missions. I see that by the end of this year, the team should be strengthened. It will therefore be able to go in that direction. I will come back to you in January 2018 to ensure that this strengthening is followed up. Of course, we are interested in this report, which will give us more information on how Belgium has been able to transpose, easily or not. And comparing the various reports of the Member States will help to identify what needs to be improved in the definitions or in the operation. For inspections, so much the better if there are two! I hope that when I ask you again in January, we will have more information on their results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u11	Madam President, I have noticed that a specific question on Dieselgate was added, and that is a different question from the previous one. I would have liked to have put these. I noticed that we skipped that question. The Minister did not answer the questions on the recommendations of the Dieselgate Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u12	It was an answer to Mrs Temmerman's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u13	I suggest that the minister give you the text of her answer. These were joint questions. If, after reading the answer, you wish to ask for clarification, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u14	Minister, I have already asked you several times about the monoculture of palm oil. If I ask you again today, it is because we have set up a working group in Parliament on fair trade. We tried to address a number of issues, including the problem of palm oil. It is therefore also on behalf of this working group that I am asking this question, since there is a whole series of discussions, charters, commitments between palm oil producers and palm oil-based food products that are trying to develop quality labels highlighting "sustainable palm oil", etc. When I asked you in March 2016 about your views and position on the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil, you said that the certification of palm oil should not lead to disinterest in other oils produced in Europe, including rapeseed. As for the beacons, you had developed them through the recognition of local populations, the involvement of local producers, the inclusion of the Alliance and the round table in a more global framework, the transparency and the objectivation of the related criteria. In its recent report on the subject, the European Parliament recommends that its legislation and controls on the origin of palm oil be tightened. Indeed, the demand for palm oil is growing. This oil is being produced in increasing quantities, resulting in the development of monocultures of palm trees that take the place of forests that harm biodiversity as well as our climate policy on carbon sequestration. The European Parliament notes a series of damage such as huge forest fires, the drying of peatlands resulting from these intensive monocultures, not to mention the forced evictions and armed violence which, in some regions, accompany these crops. There is a will for the development of a single certification for palm oil to achieve compliance with the criteria for a sustainable palm oil. The Amsterdam Declaration on this subject has been signed. However, it appears that the Belgian Government would not have ratified it. Can you tell us why our government has not signed it, unless it has been done in the meantime? You have expressed your willingness to put in place more ambitious criteria than those currently proposed by the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil. You've met with the officials and I assume a job has been done. What are you doing with the improvement proposals? What is Belgium's current position on the ongoing European discussions on this palm oil monoculture and the related dangers? Is an agenda foreseen by the Council of Ministers Environment in connection with the report of the European Parliament to follow up on this issue? Finally, of course, the link remains with all the ambitions for certification of biofuels, which also have direct links to this palm oil production.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u15	Madam President, the issue of the impacts of palm oil production is a particularly interesting one. Its impacts require proactive, original and cross-cutting action. In my opinion, being proactive does not mean imposing its principles on the rest of the world. On the contrary, it is a matter of changing all the parts to better take account of the negative impacts of palm oil production. To do this, as you have pointed out, I have regularly insisted on three points. First, sustainability labelling must remain an evolving tool. Secondly, local producers and their communities must be involved and certification accessible to all. Thirdly, transparency is an indispensable means of earning the confidence of consumers and public authorities. To advance these points, I met the leaders of the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil a decade ago. They have, of course, my call and wish to continue to work towards the development of a global market for sustainable palm oil, with a greater commitment. The Belgian companies members of the Alliance have defined a proactive framework, setting more ambitious targets than those set by the RSPO label. Indeed, they undertake to ensure that, by 2020, all food containing palm oil and ultimately destined for the Belgian market contains only sustainable palm oil. They are also working with local authorities to create a local certification network accessible to producers. I really want to support this initiative. That is why I have planned to raise awareness of the issue among my European counterparts as soon as possible. It is clear that the signing of the Amsterdam Declaration cannot be seen as a goal in itself. The voluntary approach to RSPO certification is a first step in a sustainable procurement process. The Belgian Alliance's commitment to sustainable palm oil is a second. When it comes to sustainability, it is, in essence, an evolutionary process involving progress and new challenges. In concrete terms, what does that mean? This means that Belgian producers are developing a more ambitious position. They have sent amendments, for the time being to Holland, to feed into the reflection of this Declaration. They do not refuse to sign it on the basis that it does not suit them a minimum, but, before signing it, they wish to be able to incorporate the more ambitious amendments emanating from the Belgian Alliance into the Declaration. Of course, who can do the least. It is not a question of blocking a European process, but of moving it towards a more ambitious objective. This is what the Belgian Alliance is doing with my agreement and support. Moreover, as soon as I have the opportunity to meet one of the European Environment Ministers – sometimes I meet them regularly – I will talk to him about this issue by drawing his attention to this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for the follow-up. I agree with you when you say that it is important to have ambitious objectives and not to be trapped by too weak provisions that would not combine all the criteria to be taken into account. I take note of the fact that you are acting at European level, in cooperation with your colleagues, with a view to supporting the Amsterdam Declaration. Finally, could you please tell me whether deadlines have been set for these discussions, for changes to the Declaration at European level, etc.- Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u17	The cabinet drafted the amendment which was immediately sent to the Dutch official in charge of the case. It's been a few months now. He promised to turn to all the countries signatory to the Amsterdam Declaration to obtain their agreement to introduce the amendment into the Amsterdam Declaration and thus be able to sign it. But we're waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u18	Can you give us a copy of this amendment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u19	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u20	This could be interesting for the actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u21	Many members arrive late, making the organization of work difficult. Mrs. Dedry, you did not have the opportunity to respond to the minister's response on a particular aspect of Dieselgate. So I give you a right of reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u22	Madam President, Minister, I have asked a number of specific questions about various punctual actions, but I do not hear anything about them in the answer. It is very general and is not really about the recommendations we have made here in Belgium with regard to your actions in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u23	Mrs Dedry, I would remind you that we were four or five ministers concerned at the meetings of this committee. As I recall, there was Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters, Minister De Block, Minister Galant and myself. I do not know if Ms Galant was present at this session, but she was involved as Minister of Mobility. You are talking about concrete actions that could be taken. I know it's usual, but I'm going to ask you to turn to Minister Bellot instead. I was very peripheral in this discussion, which focused on the Minister of Mobility and the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u25	Madam Minister, my question refers to your statements in L'Echo on 5 May that "Achieving Belgium's climate targets for 2020 is not the most important. What is important is to provide the framework for investments that will make it possible to move towards 2030." This statement is worrying. While the scientific community as a whole agrees on the urgency of combating global warming, while every year the reports show that the speed of global warming is undervalued, how can such objectives, which are already insufficient on the part of Belgium in terms of energy transition, be postponed? How can we move towards 2030 if we don't move towards 2020? Funny logic! You say: "The important thing is not to meet the 2020 targets by the decimal point." But is that what this is about? Is it a comma problem or a more fundamental problem, namely not achieving its objectives? That's the question I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u26	Minister, my question is about the same statement of postponement of objectives. You say that what is important is to have a framework for investments that will allow us to move towards 2030 rather than setting ourselves shorter-term deadlines. Energy Commissioner Maros Sefcovic also spoke on that day on the Belgian climate targets of 2020. According to him, they are always achievable by providing additional efforts, such as the development of wind farms and photovoltaics. According to a study published in the Geophysical Research Letters, the critical threshold for global warming of 1.5°C would be reached between 2026 and 2031. Deferral of objectives is particularly frightening when one sees the catastrophic consequences that can be associated with it. Minister, can you tell us why the Belgian government postponed the 2020 targets to 2030? Despite the postponement of the targets, will concrete measures be taken to avoid reaching the 1.5°C threshold? What measures do you not intend to implement? What are you going to strengthen? How will you assess the impact of the measures on an annual basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u27	Madam Minister, it was not our surprise to read in the press on 5 May, the day after the visit of the Vice-President of the European Commission, that you had decided to postpone Belgian climate ambitions by 10 years, by postponing them to 2030! Once again, you relativize and minimize the importance of the measures to be taken very quickly, under this legislature and without delay, to reduce our climate bill. What scientific data do you use to support your thesis, which suggests that climate goals can be postponed, if only partially? For the media, it's like you've already mourned the 2020 targets and you're going to the next stage. The only more or less clear figures you give are 2050. Of course, since you know the political and financial risks involved, you will deny them. I'd like to know exactly what's going on. Minister, are you going to meet the 2020 energy and climate commitments? If so, how? What are you doing here? How do you interpret your remarks, I quote: "The most important thing is not to meet the 2020 targets by the decimal point"? On the basis of what legal data do you rely on to support your thesis, which suggests that climate objectives can be postponed even partially? How should you interpret your remarks on the priority to be given to the security of the legal framework now, when the only achievement of your legislature is to question the framework and timetable for the exit of nuclear energy set out in 2003?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u28	Colleagues, like others, regardless of their position in the institutional organisation, whether they are members of the majority or the opposition, parliamentarians or members of the executive, fortunately we do not have a bar on how journalists headline their articles. I absolutely disagree and immediately made it known to L'Echo. The title absolutely does not reflect the content of the discussion we had. I'll explain exactly how things happened. It is said: "Maros Sefcovic stressed, during his meeting with the federal and regional energy ministers, the importance of drawing up the 2030 National Energy-Climate Plan as soon as possible. It would be the best signal, he said, to send to investors, who need to have a vision, a perspective, a stability. Belgium needs a lot of investment by 2030 and 2050." These are the words of the Vice-President of the European Commission. He also proposed to the four Belgian ministers that they should be assisted by European experts to achieve this, not only to complete the preparation of the Energy-Climate Plan but also to work within the framework of the national investment plan launched by the federal government, in convergence with the Energy Pact and the policies that are being launched now to achieve our European objectives within this much larger perspective, which extends from 2030 to 2050, while at the same time achieving our European targets for 2020. And what does Maroš Šefčovič say about this? He believes that Belgium is not lagging behind at the moment. I quote: "In fact, seven or eight Member States are probably at the same level of advancement as Belgium and some members of the European Union even find that the Commission is putting too much pressure on them. But time is running out, 2020 is at our doorstep and 2030 is not so far away." And to repeat the words, it was not I who said, "I'm making a big effort to close the Energy Pact." I said that our goal, our timeline, our horizon for the Interfederal Energy Pact was the end of this year. In truth, I explained to the Vice-President of the European Commission that we were in a tense perspective until 2050 with two important steps, 2020 and 2030. In these steps, together with the other levels of regional power, we have decided to take an absolute step forward until 2020. Each entity knows exactly what it needs to do until 2020 to achieve our goals so far. So for me, it's not ancient history as if we had to throw something in the trash, saying: it's over, we have other goals. This is ancient history because we have already made agreements and are on our way to achieving these agreements. In reality, within the framework of the Energy Pact, the National Energy-Climate Plan and our prospects until 2050, which are the reduction of 80 to 95% of greenhouse gases, we have to implement a major investment plan, in the same perspective as the path, in absolute terms, that we have agreed to achieve until 2020. This investment plan would encourage investors because it would be stable, provide a clear line and enable investment in public-private partnerships to be found. That is what is repeated in a somewhat partial way - I am thinking in particular of the title of the article cited. This is the discussion about the journey we are taking up to 2030 or even 2050. With this in mind, the central point is that the Vice-President of the European Commission has informed us that he has energy and climate experts who are ready to assist ours in implementing the Interfederal Energy Pact and the National Energy-Climate Plan. I must not remind you that all this is very difficult to implement and that, for the time being - which is probably worrying some people about the 2020 route, but I want to reassure them - we are participating in a major national debate on the subsidisation of renewable energy. You know that, in terms of the design of the three new offshore parks, which are part of the absolute journey 2013-2020, which the federal government is carrying out in accordance with the inter-federal agreement, we had a discussion about the development of offshore wind and over-subsidization. The latter obviously undermines the purchasing power of consumers and the competitiveness of our companies and does not allow a more efficient transition to carbon-free production. Indeed, we must achieve the triple objective of cleaner energy, which is sufficient and whose financial access must be decent for both consumers and businesses. Therefore, the tree and the forest should not be confused. The first is what we have already concluded - namely the journey 2013-2020 that, as much as we are, we are in the process of achieving. The other is the distant goal, which must not be forgotten and which requires much more effort – as I have already said a hundred times. In a word, I explained that concluding the agreement 2013-2020 had been easy because we have been taking advantage of a path drawn since at least 2008. On the other hand, 2030 and more journeys are much more complicated as efforts will be much more violent. To do this, we need a framework that gives direction to investors - I repeat and will continue to do so - who will join in this process because they will see that we are projecting permanently and unidirectionally and that the means of financing that will be available to them can be guaranteed in this more distant horizon. This is the complete answer and the atmosphere that allow you to better understand the situation, the reflections that have been given to you by the press with its literary hooks that we know and which are likely to say: "It is serious, something is missing, we abandon the objectives, to help!" My answer will allow you to relativize the eye-catching headlines of the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u29	Madam President, I would first like to ask the minister for clarification. Let's not discuss the title, either! It is true that titles are often a catch that should lead the reader to read the article, but I read: "The most important thing is not to meet the 2020 targets to the nearest point. It is to create a reassuring framework for investors that will allow us to move towards 2030 and beyond." Don't you deny that sentence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u30	I don't deny that sentence. That's what I just said. I'm going to talk really loudly. The comma is not legal. The comma, it is rather mathematical, that is, we have a journey to cover until 2020 and that we must be ready at the federal level with our 2 200 MW in the North Sea, by the placement of the last three offshore parks we are negotiating support for. This must be done within an intra-Belgian framework, preserving the competitiveness of our companies and still allowing the consumer to receive this electrical energy, since it is injected first into the merit order, in a financially accessible way. It's clear, though. Of course, the parks tell us, when we tell them about the reduction of the subside, that they are being ripped out of their hearts, liver, spleen, lungs! So this is not a simple negotiation. By this I mean that it will take the time, but we will find the agreement to achieve the three poles of this triangle. This agreement will then allow wind farms to build their facilities, etc. which will be ready at some point. The comma means that they can be ready, within a few months, in the time of 2020, a little more, a little less. Indeed, we must be ready by 31 December 2020, so it is not late 2019 but the entire year 2020. If for a few months, a little more about the year 2021 or a little later in 2020 – that is what the comma represents – they are not ready, it is not serious because we are on the way to launching a concrete project and this happens. That's what I'm talking about. I hear the journalists' questions, because I said we weren't in primary school: "Ah, and then we won't be ready in 2020?" I reply that 2020 is also December 31, 2020, it is not December 31, 2019! Then, when the impetus has been given and the agreement on subsidies, the construction of the parks will begin and we will see how quickly they are built. Do not forget, Mr Van Hees, that there is also the MOG! The MOG is the catch at sea to which the parks must hang up. This means that this facility must be ready at the same time so that parks can hang up. If they hang on to it, it will cost them less in terms of support than if they pull a cable to the ground because the MOG is not ready. I don't want to say anything more!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u31	Madam Chair, I have no further questions. I just want to point out to the minister that her answers are not such as to reassure me. We're talking comma, but we're in the dark. Virgulate how much? Madam Minister, I think you are expressing difficulties in implementing a plan that works on renewable energy while, on the other hand, you are moving back on the subject of nuclear energy. You continue in the constant inability in Belgium to move forward on climate ambitions. Belgium seems to me to be paying for its disasters in this area. We see the problem in terms of biomass, offshore wind with its prices in particular. In this regard, I link to your sentence that the important thing is to create a reassuring framework for investors. That's what you've always done: to reassure investors, to give them as many gifts as possible, and that was already the case for Electrabel...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u32	You don't want to reassure offshore investors, Mr. Van Hees? I'll tell them about you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u33	You'll tell them! This is what the wind report shows: they have received astronomical amounts and, today, we realize that, in Germany and without any subsidies, they manage to do what Belgium is unable to do under the same conditions! You have been in this logic, not to treat the consumer but the investor. In any case, this setback on these objectives is clear and shows your inability to have a real energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u34	I would like to see a debate organised in this committee to discuss the offshore in a concrete way. You have the art of mixing, of "melting" all the concepts to make it an impotent soup that absolutely does not correspond to reality! I can tell you about the German example, which is very interesting. But this could be the subject of further debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u35	Minister, I will now act as the unpleasant president. We are in the context of the oral questions and we will not continue to develop the exchanges.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u36	But since I still have the last word, I accept the minister's invitation. Madam President, do you agree to organize it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u37	Mr Van Hees, I am still going to finish my sentence and then the last word will come back to the parliamentarian as always. The mix of North Sea and Energy expertise on offshore wind can indeed be part of a debate that we can have in more depth, but it is always difficult to combine the topics. Here, we are only discussing the North Sea jurisdiction and not energy competence. You will be able to continue some debates but in the Economy Committee, and not necessarily here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u38	Cela va bien.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u39	Madam President, I do not agree with our colleague Van Hees because the minister reassured an investor, Electrabel. The others are waiting for clarity within the framework of the energy pact that should have been decided. If we follow what the government said in 2015 and is now in a phase of discussions with the various operators, I can share the principle of the need for clarity and visibility. The problem is that here we questioned points that were clear in the 2003 law, not for investors but for an investor. Secondly, Madam Minister, I have the impression that the length of your answer is inversely proportional to the clarity of the commitments, and above all their respect. Indeed, you say that we are not a few months away, but Europe has set a specific date. That's right, you recalled, it's not December 31, 2019, it's December 31, 2020. That part is right. But as of January, February, March 2021, there will no longer be a question of respect and you will be sanctioned. And there is no postponement of each other. I understand that decisions can be interesting for the post-2020 period, which will have a more positive impact on the years 2020 to 2030. But still it is that you will be assessed on the situation as of December 31, 2020. In doing so, in my view, – we will come back to the issue in the Committee on the Economy – you will not be able to achieve your objectives, not only because of the current difficulties in offshore wind energy. Madam Minister, I would like you to present in the Committee on the Economy precise figures on the state of the situation and the projected situation in relation to the various projects already envisaged by 31 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u40	I would like to speak in the context of the replies, bearing in mind the concern of this committee, which is the climate dimension and hence the reduction of emissions. Minister, I can share a way of organizing the policy that, beyond the obligations, targets to be met by December 31, 2020, we need to take a longer perspective, knowing that the efforts to achieve the reduction of emissions will be even more important. But this is only sustainable if we are very specific about the measures that will actually be implemented, particularly in the context of the 2020 deadline. In the light of your response, should I understand that none of the concrete measures envisaged in the agreement to achieve the 2020 targets will be removed, that they will all be implemented and that they will be subject to regular evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u41	That's exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u42	The energy dimension of policies will be discussed in the Committee on the Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, before going to Mr Nollet, who has tabled a whole series of questions, may I turn to item 16 of our agenda and to the joint questions No 18430 of Mr Senesael and No 18472 of Mrs Dedry by giving the floor directly to Mrs Dedry, since Mr Senesael cannot be present today? [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u44	Madam President, Minister, a new federal bee plan for 2017-2019 was presented to the relevant sectors during a national colloquium. I will not repeat the eight main points of the plan, which are included in my question, because you know them better than I do. It is a very important plan that contains a number of good elements. Meanwhile, at European level, a legislative gap has been found with regard to the banned substances of the neonicotinoid family. Thirteen European Member States, despite the moratorium, have been authorised to use banned substances in recent months and years. Because of this gap, crops are sprayed on the European continent and seeds are treated with prohibited neonicotinoids, produced by chemists Bayer and Syngenta. The product Fipronil, a particularly harmful pesticide, is still produced by the German megagroup BASF. Madam Minister, what budgetary resources do you propose to implement the eight elements of the new federal bee plan? Which partners are you working with to meet the objectives of this plan? Which research projects and monitoring programmes are in progress or will be launched alongside those already in place? Is there an evaluation on the agenda? Substances from the family of neonicotinoids and other pesticides such as Fipronil are particularly harmful to insects in general and pollinators in particular. Will the government definitively prohibit the use of these substances in Belgium? What attitude does Belgium take towards the European Commission and towards those Member States that take the edge on neonicotinoids and insecticides? There is also a problem with the regulation of thistles on agricultural land. Are you in any way willing to do something about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u45	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, unfortunately I have received a French reply. We will ask our administration to translate the text for you. I will now answer you in French. The plan is the result of a joint drafting of the federal administrations members of the Task Force: the Federal Agency for Drugs, the Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety and the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. The plan was also based on consultation with beekeeping federations, veterinary unions and members of the Bees Working Group. Of course, the three ministers concerned, Mrs De Block, Mr Borsus and I have also worked there. The implementation of this plan and its follow-up will be carried out by the Task Force in consultation with the various stakeholders involved in the actions, in particular beekeeping federations, veterinary trade unions and members of the working group. As a reminder, this working group brings together regional administrations, associations and scientific experts involved in pollination. The plan consists of eight components. First, to improve the availability of veterinary products for beekeeping and to strengthen the role of veterinarians in the management of the health of domestic bees. Secondly, to develop tools to improve the fight against bee diseases. Thirdly, to establish a monitoring of the mortality of domestic bees and to improve the understanding of the presumed causes of this mortality. Fourthly, identify, assess and manage the risks associated with plant protection products. Fifthly, to prevent risks related to the introduction of invasive species or trade in bees. Sixth, revise the mandatory control of thistles harmful to agricultural activity. Seventh, to raise awareness and encourage action in favour of pollinators. Eighth, strengthening national dialogue and coherence. There are four ambitions that guide these eight strands: helping beekeepers, better understanding the root causes of the problem and better controlling risks by mobilizing all actors. This plan provides for actions until the end of this legislature and some will, we hope, continue after this period. This is a significant investment over a short period of time in order to make rapid progress on this key issue. A review of each of these actions will be completed in due course. Two hundred beekeepers participate in the HealthyBee programme. Many more will be involved in research projects, including the study on the identification of the effects of chemicals on bee mortality – which is scheduled to take place until 2020. The "veterinary bees" guidance was adopted very recently. The vision of beekeepers can only be evaluated in the coming months, due to the recent nature of the project. In the total budget of the plan, which accompanies this policy, in addition to the human resources of our jurisdictions, we can include the budget for each of the five research projects included in the plan. The first, called "Bee Best Check", aims to identify molecular markers of tolerance and resistance to varroa - you know that varroase is caused by this parasite in honey-producing bees – by means of a phenotypic varroa tolerance test. For this planned project until next year, the budget is EUR 200 000. Next comes "VARRESIST", whose aim is to identify molecular markers of tolerance and resistance to varroa in honeybees through a similar test. To this end, €400,000 has been allocated. The project will end in the first half of 2018. The third, "BEESYN", consists of a study to identify the impact of chemicals on the mortality of domestic bees in Belgium, which takes into account the interactions of these products with other potential causes of mortality. The budget invested is in the order of 400,000 euros. This project will be launched this summer and will be completed in 2020. Then, "ViroBee" examines the viroma of bees and new methods of detecting it. The budget is EUR 248 000. The completion of the project is scheduled for the end of 2018. Finally, "Apirisk" further investigates the introduction of pathogens by pollen, bees and beekeeping products and identifies risks to protect the plant and pollinator. The current budget is EUR 350 000 and will be finalized in early 2019. All these researches will be examined as they progress by the task force which is specially dedicated to this in the process. With regard to neonicotinoids on which you often ask questions, the plan foresees that at Belgian level, an evaluation of the conclusions of 2015 by the FSA carried out by the Plant Protection Products and Fertilizers Service will soon be presented to the Pesticide Accreditation Committee. If necessary and on the basis of this scientific information, further withdrawals of neonicotinoid products will be proposed without waiting for a European decision. So, we're gonna try to be more ambitious and more operational. This analysis will take into account the precautionary principle, as prescribed by European Regulation 1107/2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market. All substances must be assessed in the same manner using this methodology. Of course, the results of the evaluation cannot be anticipated. So, if I have results or as soon as I have results, I'll let you know, but I can't tell you what's going on right now. As regards the legislation on the control of harmful thistles, it will be revised taking into account various scientific opinions including the opinion of the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA of 13 January 2017 and also the contributions of pollination experts of the working group bees. For further details on these two issues, I would of course ask you to speak directly to Minister Borsus, who is responsible for all these matters. It will complete what I have already given you with a lot of detail. So you already have a good approach since I have obviously asked this minister, the elements that allow me to answer you already about his skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u46	Thank you, Madam Minister. The question has already been asked to Minister Borsus about thistles. As soon as he comes, he'll have to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. We shall continue to work on this in committee because we do have a proposal on neonicotinoids. I would like to hear you say that you want to be more ambitious. I would also like to hear you raise the precautionary principle. I hope we are on the right track now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u48	Minister, with regard to the study on the impact of chemicals in particular, how was it developed? Has the process been determined and what needs to be discussed with beekeepers? For the past 20 years, there have been studies of the impact of a range of factors (pollens, genetic material, etc.) on the health of bees. Each time, the methods used to assess the impact were criticized and it appeared that elements had not been taken into account. You said that beekeepers would be affected, that the results would be communicated to them and that there would be an evaluation of them. I would therefore like to know if the method had been developed with them as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u49	I can't answer you exactly. I understand that your concern is whether, initially, the methodologies of the studies were built on the experience of beekeepers. I can't tell you exactly. I'll ask the question. But, as I said twice in my response, at all stages of the development of the Plan, beekeepers have been widely involved, 200 of whom participate in the HealthyBee program. It is therefore possible that there have been working connections with the experts who have built the methodology of the studies. So I'm going to check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u50	Questions Nos 17538, 18298 and 18299 by Mr Calvo are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u51	Madam Minister, you have barely opened the debate on the introduction of a carbon tax in Belgium that your "camarad" Clarinval - I do not know if the term is appropriate - has considered it necessary to make known its radical opposition to your project. However, La Libre's journalist questioned him by including your comments on the possibility of considering this tax as part of an environmental shift tax. Prudence! Our colleague also opposes this in frontal terms in his interview. What is more, he criticizes your method, considering that, at the opening of the discussions, you had almost invited only associations favourable to the tax. Could you clarify what is happening on this organizational point? More broadly, I would like to know whether you maintain your previous position or whether this position requires you to review your project. In short, do you agree that once again our colleague has reacted to at least unnecessarily and prematurely, or do you think he was right in his firm and definitive criticism?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u52	Being a minister is sometimes a hard job, and I recognize it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u53	Madam President, my answer to this question will be equal to the involvement and inflection of the voices of my Nollet "camarad". I have already had the opportunity to answer this question in the sub-committee on Climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u54	I explained this to myself with the services. The report is not the same, of course. Moreover, it is not yet available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u55	It's really a shame, but you have an excellent memory, and you remembered what I told you. I'll answer you again. The very objective of a debate, by hypothesis, as you know, is to confront sometimes different opinions. To start debates when we know in advance that everyone is going to say the same thing would have no interest whatsoever. I have made sure, especially in this debate, that all the opinions, as I told you at the time, are gathered in large measure so that this is a genuine national debate on the issue of carbon pricing. Stakeholders include administrations, businesses, NGOs, associations, policies and experts, who have been invited from the beginning to work on this issue. We are not, far from it, in a single-way debate. I think that's what our comrade fears. By the way, you'll tell him yourself how useless you found his intervention, since that's what you claimed here. I guess you're not far from each other. You'll have an opportunity to tell him. All the people are taking part in this debate that I opened at the beginning of the year. I was quite impressed to see how large and diverse the audience was. I hope that this diversity will lead to very rich conclusions. I thanked them for participating and contributing. I believe that I knew in advance that our colleague Mr Clarinval would express his point of view, which is the least of all. He is obviously, like everyone else, able to participate in this debate, and I hope so. After the opening event, a first transversal workshop took place on 5 May and brought together about 50 people from all sectors of society, as at the beginning. The craze continues. Exchanges have been varied and have led to a better understanding of the impacts of a price signal on carbon, particularly on the most disadvantaged people, on coherence with regional policies and on the various sectors concerned. I pay particular attention to ensuring that possible measures on carbon pricing are consistent with measures against air pollutants. We will now move on to the different thematic working groups according to the sectors: transport, agriculture, construction and others, which will allow us to refine the stakes for each of these specific sectors. I should not remind you that these non-ETS sectors are an important part of our greenhouse gas emissions and are not covered by the European market. You've already said it several times, and so have I. If we want to achieve our goal of being a low-carbon society by 2050, we must therefore ensure an energy transition in these sectors as well. The price signal is one of the means, but not the only one. It would complement federal and regional policies and measures. I say and say again that, for me, even if we think directly of the price signal, this is not the only possible way. I was looking at things in a more global context of environmental tax shift. In my view, the dynamic is the right one: it will bring a great deal of wealth and content to this debate. I am confident in our ability to collectively identify, in the playground of recreation, the necessary and important measures for these areas in our daily life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u56	Madam Minister, I will let the "camarad" Clarinval know that his intervention was unnecessary. [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u57	I'm not the one who says it, it's you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u58	What did you say?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u59	It is you who speak of no use when I consider his intervention useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u60	I will therefore let Mr Clarinval know that it was useful to say that the method was wrong and that the debate was unnecessary, since it was his point. Everyone will understand your difficulties in this regard. More importantly, when you talk about alternatives, you say that it is not just financial valuation, and therefore not just the tax that can be considered. Do you have two or three ideas to share with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u61	Not yet! I've already told you and I'll tell you again: I'm waiting for work to progress. You have found that working groups have been set up and you must therefore return to me in several months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u62	Minister, the cooperation agreement on the sharing of the Belgian Energy and Climate objectives for the period 2013-2020 sets out in its Article 9, paragraph 2, the federal commitment to implement new policies and measures. It is not unrelated to the debate that we subsequently had, but this question was tabled earlier. That's why she's coming now. I quote Article 9: "For the compliance period, the Federal State undertakes to adopt and implement new internal policies and measures that result in an additional reduction of emissions of at least 7,000 kilotonnes CO2 equivalent for the period 2016-2020 inclusive, in accordance with the linear nature of the regional effort to reduce emissions; the Federal State identifies the additional policies and measures and the emission reduction achieved is calculated in accordance with a methodology previously approved by the National Climate Commission, by 31 December 2016 at the latest; the Federal State will make every effort to achieve the target result". This date of 31 December 2016 is largely exceeded. I asked you in February to learn not only about this methodology, but above all about the energy policies and additional measures - as well as the reduction of emissions each time associated - identified and adopted by the federal government. In your response, you indicated to me that the preparatory work on the identification and assessment of the impact of these new policies and measures was still under way, that a set of federal policies and measures that could contribute to the achievement of this objective was submitted and discussed in IKW. You suggested me come back in two months, which I'm doing now. Can you finally let us know not only about this methodology but above all about the energy policies and additional measures - as well as the reduction of emissions each time associated - identified and adopted by the federal government in translation of its commitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u63	In order to meet the federal government's commitments in the Burden Sharing Cooperation Agreement, a set of six new policies and measures has been identified to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 7 kilotonnes of CO2 equivalent over the period 2016-2020. These measures concern the field of product policy and transport. For each of the measures identified, methodologies have been developed to assess the impact of these policies in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The result of this work was forwarded on 16 February 2017 to the National Climate Commission with a view to having these methodologies approved by the Commission, as provided for in the Cooperation Agreement. I spare you the technical description of the six proposed assessment methods, but I can give you an overview of the effects of these measures in terms of emission reduction. Firstly, the introduction of the "positive mobility" allowance through the establishment of a framework allowing workers whose salary package provides for a company car, with or without a petrol card, to opt – with the agreement of their employer – for the conversion of this vehicle and, where appropriate, the petrol card into a mobility budget or an increase in the net wage which would result in an estimated emission reduction of 54.3 kilotonnes equivalent to CO2 over the period 2016-2020. Secondly, the promotion of the use of electric bicycles would result in an estimated emission reduction of 10.4 kilotonnes CO2 equivalent for the same period. This promotion will be done by taxing the electric bicycle, limited to 45 km/h, on a normal bicycle, both for the tax deductibility of 22 cents/km for the home-to-work journey and for the depreciation rate of 120% for the purchase of business electric bicycles. Thirdly, the reduction in traction energy - hence, when the engine is driven by electricity - of SNCB would have the effect of reducing emissions of 3.9 kilotonnes of CO2 equivalent over the same period. This reduction in the energy consumption of traction will be achieved through various measures, such as an increase in the rate of occupancy of trains, a reduction in the energy losses of stationary trains, the introduction of more energy-efficient rolling stock and other measures which you may be aware of with my colleague, Mr Bellot. With regard to non-traction energy - operating without electricity - the reduction in energy consumption would result in a reduction in emissions of the order of 10.1 kilotonnes CO2 equivalent. This reduction in energy consumption will be achieved through the further renewal of heating installations in buildings, the commissioning of workshops in place of energy-efficient old workshops, the renovation of buildings (insulation, chassis, etc.).). Fourthly, the new excise duty regime for petrol and diesel - aimed at bringing the rates of excise duty on petrol and diesel, implemented by the Royal Decree of 26 October 2015 and the Act of 27 June 2016 - would result in an estimated reduction in emissions of 184 kilotonnes equivalent to CO2. Fifthly, the reduction in fossil fuel consumption resulting from the implementation of the Ecodesign Directive for the categories of apparatus having an impact on the non-ETS sector (water heating, mixed heating systems, decentralised heating systems, solid fuel boilers, open and gas-closed fireplaces, decentralized heating systems with radiant and radiant tubes, gas-fired air heaters, residential and non-residential ventilation units with heat recovery, gas furnaces and cooking plans) would result in an estimated emission reduction of 10,487 kilotonnes of CO2 equivalents. Finally, the implementation of the Regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases (Regulation 517/2014) would lead to an estimated reduction in emissions of 4,129 kilotonnes of CO2 equivalents; this regulation acts on several axes such as prevention by ensuring the limitation or prohibition of the placing on the market of gas and equipment, the control of emissions during the life of the equipment through the training and certification of stakeholders in the sectors concerned and the obligation to recover at the end of life, labelling but also the promotion of alternative solutions. Thus, if we count the impact of these six new federal policies and measures, we achieve, subject to the approval by the National Climate Commission (CNC), the methodologies developed, as I said, a reduction in emissions estimated at 14,879 kilotonnes of CO2 equivalents over the period 2016-2020, almost double the minimum required in the cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u64	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Given the time and density of your answer, I will take the time to analyze it before I possibly restart you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u65	Madam President, Minister, the NDC Partnership, a partnership initiated by Germany and launched during COP 22, brings together more than 30 countries including the European Union and at least nine international institutions. The aim of this partnership is to develop information tools and exchange good practices among partners, to provide technical assistance and capacity-building for the implementation of the objectives and to facilitate access to financial assistance for this purpose. In response to a written question on the subject, you explained to me that: "This is an extremely interesting and important initiative and I am currently examining, with my administration, how Belgium can participate in it." At the committee meeting on 8 February, I wanted to know what conclusion you were drawing from this examination and whether Belgium could actually participate in this initiative. You told me that the NDC Partnership involved close collaboration and more synergies between the Climate and Development Cooperation services and that you would contact your colleague in charge of Cooperation in this regard in order to seek its support. I'd like to know what that contact gave me. You also informed us that you had asked the initiators about the concrete modalities for joining the partnership. I would therefore definitely like to know what is happening: will Belgium finally officially become a member of this partnership which you have described as an extremely interesting and important initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your interest in following up Belgium's accession to the NDC Partnership. I am pleased to announce that the case is progressing. Good news! The terms of membership are simple. A notification signed at the level of the Directors General of Administrations in charge of Climate Policy and Finance or Planning is sufficient. For developed countries, this is rather a notification by the administrations responsible for climate policy and development cooperation. Through this dual signature, the NDC Partnership wants to stimulate a comprehensive government approach. Participation in this programme is free of charge. The only condition is adherence to nine basic principles that I will communicate to you. The Director-General of the Environment DG of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment has requested the support of the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid for Belgium's participation in this partnership, asking him to co-sign a letter addressed to the Co-President of the NDC Partnership, His Excellency Hakima El Haite, Moroccan Minister of the Environment, the Minister of Energy, Mines, Water, the Environment of Morocco and His Excellency Thomas Silberhorn, Parliamentary Secretary of State, Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development of Germany. The Federal Climate Change Service will be responsible for coordination at the Belgian level and will take over from the NDC Partnership. The initiative to support the NDC, taken by me and complementary to Belgian international actions, is perfectly within the framework of this partnership. We will officially notify him when we become members. I am pleased to inform you that this initiative has already been very successful. We received 47 requests from 21 countries. The selection committee selected four projects that will receive our support. Together with two countries, Rwanda and Cameroon, we will work towards the establishment of their national system for greenhouse gas inventories. We will also support two other countries, Burundi and Côte d'Ivoire, in their efforts to integrate climate change and the contribution of ecosystem services in sectoral planning at the national and local levels. Discussions on the specific modalities of these collaborations are still ongoing with partners. After signing the memorandums of understanding, you can find more information about these projects on the Climate Change Service website. In addition, I intend to launch a second call for projects in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u67	Minister, it's simple, it's moving forward, but we're not there yet. I remember the positive aspect and I'll see if I have to come back to you to check that everything is definitely well sealed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u68	Madam Minister, in our previous discussion on the subject, you have shown your attention to the ongoing work on climate refugees, particularly in the context of the pragmatic approach that seems to be taking precedence at the United Nations on the prospect of a climate refugee. May I ask you to re-examine the situation and more specifically the implications of Belgium in these extremely important reflections in my view as well? I think we share the same thinking on this aspect. Which Belgian experts are involved in these debates and at what level? Have you undertaken or are you going to undertake a process for a Belgian expert to be included in the UNFCCC Task Force Displacement? Last November, the University of Liège opened a centre for observation and research on environmental migration. What collaborations have you or are you planning to establish with this centre? Liège, it's important, Madam President. We won't say otherwise! What implications of this research centre, which is almost unique in the world, have you proposed or are you planning to propose in the various international forums where the topic is being discussed? In short, you feel it, I am looking for a way, while taking into account your last remarks, to make Belgium, despite everything present and actress on the international stage, perhaps not to have refugee status since you told me that this is difficult, but, in any case, to advance the problem with the people who, at home, are at the forefront of the reflection in Liège on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u69	Colleagues, at COP 21 in Paris, the Executive Committee (which I will call EXCOM abbreviated) of the Warsaw international mechanism on loss and damage was invited to create a task force on displacement. The aim of this task force is to formulate recommendations for an integrated approach to prevent, limit and manage displacements related to climate change impacts. In September 2016, EXCOM finalized the terms of reference for this task force. Its composition was approved in March 2017. It has a total of fourteen members: eight migration experts working for relevant international organizations and NGOs, one representative of the Adaptation Committee, one representative of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group and four members of the WIM, the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism, which I have just mentioned. The first meeting will be held this month. This task force will report to COP23 at the end of the year and is expected to complete its mandate at COP24 in December 2018. In addition, the new five-year action plan of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism was recently approved at COP22 in Marrakech. It takes over a strategic area of action on migration, a mechanism in Warsaw and the task force has been limited. Unfortunately, no Belgian expert currently sits on these bodies. However, the respective activities of these bodies are closely monitored by my administration. In addition, the recommendations of the Task Force will be issued at COP24 in 2018, where the parties will study them and discuss them in depth. Of course, we should try to work ahead of this process and influence it as much as possible, especially since we have the expertise, but finally, the facts are there: we are not included as experts. However, I am convinced that the scientific community can make an important contribution to the debate on climate migration through its contacts within the scientific community. The Centre for Observation and Research on Environmental Migration, recently opened at the University of Liège, which I have also attended, Madam President, will undoubtedly contribute to the reflections on this subject. The Federal Research Programme BRAIN-be, coordinated by the University of Liège, also provides financial support for a project, which is soon to begin, to analyse how migration can contribute to adaptation to climate change. Since climate migration affects various policy areas, it is essential to organize an internal consultation on climate migration. Thus, following the resolution adopted in the Chamber on 26 November 2015 on Belgium's priorities at the Paris Conference, stating that climate change is likely to lead to an escalation of the migrant crisis and inviting the government to defend the recognition of the status of climate refugee, I contacted my competent colleague on this subject, Mr Franken. I suggested that this issue be addressed in the Interdepartmental Commission for Policy Coherence for Development, in which our respective administrations are represented. This committee is active in the priority areas of development policy coherence, namely: Trade and Finance, Climate Change and Food Security, Migration, Peace and Security. It goes without saying that existing scientific knowledge in this field will be taken into account in consultation and possible policy preparation. Madam President, I also invite you, during your liaison contacts, to encourage the recently established scientific community of Liège in charge of studies on environmental migration, to let you know what its expertise is both at the national level in this area and at the international level. I can also contribute to this through my contacts with my environmental counterparts, the ministers I meet with and with whom, each time, I insist on one or the other theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u70	Minister, I believe you have good advice on this. The President as such will indeed be able to pass the message more directly than I can do to the academic authorities in Liège, and so we will have done a useful job even if, like you, I regret that the Belgians are not represented upstream. At least for the downhill, we'll be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u71	Minister, it is in July 2017 that Belgium will present the state of implementation of the sustainable development goals at the next High-level Political Forum in New York. In this context, a first summary progress report will be presented to the United Nations in June. From the outset, the United Nations has recognized that all sectors of society must be able to take an active part in the development and implementation of sustainable development policies. What process of participation has been put in place to enable all United Nations-recognised stakeholders to get Belgian stakeholders involved in the preparation of this report? Have you planned an information session to which all organizations wishing to learn about the process of preparing the report will be invited, or will you do so? Have you planned a written consultation with an online questionnaire that is accessible to all, with questions directly related to the chapters and content of the report, or will you do so? Have you organized a forum day, as set out in the National Sustainable Development Strategy, to discuss the results of this written consultation and jointly define the integration of ideas into the final report, or are you going to do so? When can these three expectations, carried out by many civil society actors, be met, if not already done, so that, in accordance with the spirit of the 2030 agenda, these actors can bring their stone to the building in times that are still useful?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u72	Dear colleague, I thank you for this question concerning the preparation of Belgium's report with a view to its participation in the voluntary national review exercise aimed at the implementation of the 2030 sustainable development programme. I am pleased to be able to clarify the issues raised by some civil society organizations, which have also addressed such questions to me. As you know, Belgium wanted to demonstrate its commitment to the new 2030 agenda by participating in this second national reporting exercise at a high-level meeting in July 2017. As you know, within this framework, the process is led by the Prime Minister, with the participation of federal colleagues vice-first, and ministers from federal entities. As you know, in July 2015, an intra-federal division established that my colleague Didier Reynders would be in charge of international reporting, that my colleague Alexander De Croo would be responsible for development cooperation, and that I myself was responsible for implementing this agenda on our soil. If I participate in the reporting process that has been put in place, it is therefore specifically in this capacity, alongside many other members of the government. The structure of the report defined by the political task force coordinating the work provided, in January 2017, for a component linked to the contribution of civil society organisations. The process of drafting the report and interaction with civil society organisations were presented at the General Assembly of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development (CFDD) on 13 February 2017. I asked for the CFDD on behalf of the federal government. Members made a first contribution in mid-March. This was further completed at the end of March. It will be up to the drafting committee within Foreign Affairs and the political task force to analyse how these contributions are reflected in the report. In addition, the CFDD was also called upon at the end of April to deliver an opinion on the draft report so that we could still take it into account in the drafting process. I'm trying to associate them very closely. I always ask them to try to give their opinions quickly. There will therefore be no specific form, because we prefer to operate the bodies which are intended for this purpose. Belgium has always shown the importance it attaches to the principle of participation provided for in the Rio Declaration. This has included the establishment of the Federal Council on Sustainable Development, which is the legal body for involving civil society in the preparation and monitoring of sustainable development policies. In this reporting process, the CFDD is my preferred partner, whom I question on a regular basis. Since the process of gathering information is particularly extensive, involving all administrations at all levels of authority, it is an important compilation work that does not allow the forum day provided for in the National Sustainable Development Strategy to be organized with the high-level meeting. We will therefore organise a forum in the autumn, after this high-level forum, to present the results of New York and to discuss in a participatory manner, with civil society organisations, the implementation of the National Strategy for Sustainable Development. There will also be a round table with the CFDD at the end of June to discuss this and to have elements that can be brought to the United States at this high-level meeting. We are really trying to have content; and that's why I always ask them to go fast, even if it's complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u73	Madam Minister, I often serve as a parliamentary relay - because I think this is part of our function - to the issues raised by civil society or the organisations concerned, which may also ask you by mail but sometimes without success. As for the content of your answer, as far as I am concerned, I obviously find it interesting that you are working regularly with the CFDD. However, in view of the need for participation, its exclusive nature seems problematic to me. In this way, you are depriving yourself of contributions and opinions outside the CFDD or, at least, that have not been passed through the internal consensus of the institution. I have the impression that you are building an alibi here to catch up with an initiative that could not be taken properly, rather than addressing the need for broad participation in the development of the National Sustainable Development Strategy. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u74	We have provided you with technical information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u75	We are talking about the CFDD and, of course, about advice from all the federated entities. So that makes eight. Our point of contact is the CFDD, which supports the services of the other advice boards. In any case, a consultation on a website would probably have brought nothing more, given our experience with the Federal Council for Sustainable Development. They're always the same people who answer. They are, in principle, represented in this body and in the advice that I meet each time. This is organised civil society. Citizens who do not come together would not answer these questions anyway. I don't feel like anyone's missing. If you think of a particular person, I'd be interested in knowing her.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u76	I am not going to prolong the debate, but I would like to point out that participation can be sustained in different ways. It can thus be considered that since the CFDD and the regional bodies coordinate, in any case, different bodies, associations and NGOs, their views will be predominant. That's not true. Moreover, I did not say that the CFDD should be replaced. But in addition to this opinion, which, if it is not to be consensual, must be the majority, you lose a series of wealth of individual contributions, either from members of NGOs or from outside actors. You tell me that when you open a website, no one answers! What are you setting aside to do that? I'm not saying it's easy, but I'm talking about experience. In the Region, when we initiated participatory processes with a commitment to enable them to succeed, we were able to see good progress, perhaps not at the height of my hopes because there is always a way to do better in this area but, in any case, the result is linked to involvement and funding to make this participation work not directly institutional.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u77	It is true that, given the different nature of the partners involved, a form of compromise is ultimately reached in the opinion bodies, as in the Federal Council for Sustainable Development. It would be interesting to be able to supplement this with the direct assessments of the various components. This is the complexity of the consultation!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u78	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, in January the Senate Committee on Transversal Matters adopted a very interesting and important report on the intra-Belgian decision-making process regarding the allocation of climate effort in relation to the objectives set. In plenary, this report was widely supported: 42 votes in favour, 3 against and 4 abstentions. Minister, I would like to know how you look at this report and each of its recommendations. What have you initiated or will you initiate as a follow-up to this report and each of its recommendations? Have you done or are you going to discuss this report at the Interdepartmental Conference on the Wider Environment for Climate? If so, what does it show?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have read the recommendations of the information report on the intra-Belgian decision-making process on the allocation of climate effort in relation to climate objectives with the utmost attention. The work of the Senate Committee on Transversal Matters throughout 2016, during which many federal, regional and European officials and representatives of civil society were interviewed, is an important contribution to the reflection on climate-energy policy governance issues. This reflection is essential at a time when we are facing new challenges in this area, stemming in particular from our international (Paris Agreement) and European commitments (Energy-Climate 2030 Framework and Energy Union), including the future European regulation on governance. Without prejudging further consideration of these recommendations and possible initiatives that may result from them, I would like to note here some recommendations that I find particularly interesting. First of all, the development of a long-term coordinated vision for a transition to a low-carbon society. The challenge of transition indeed seems to me to transcend the traditional boundaries of the distribution of competences and to require a common strategic vision. The ongoing discussions on the vision and the Energy Pact are part of such an approach, whatever is said in the press, still today. Secondly, taking into account the principle of mutuality in decision-making. It seems to me essential that, in future developments in climate policy, the different entities should ensure that each other's actions are mutually reinforcing, in the interests of coherence and efficiency. Thirdly, the full implementation of the cooperation agreement of 14 November 2002, the strengthening of the National Climate Commission, greater transparency of the Commission's work and a follow-up of its activities for parliamentary assemblies. I fully endorse these recommendations, which aim to revitalize the central body for climate policy cooperation in Belgium, to make it more transparent and to better control its actions. I would also like to point out that the institutional agreement on the sixth reform of the State also provides for the strengthening of the National Climate Commission and the optimisation of its functioning. It is now high time to propose concrete reforms. I've tried it before. But it comes little by little. I have expressed my concern to my successor in the chairmanship of this committee, Mr Lacroix. This brings me to the creation of an interparliamentary consultation body to examine climate policy and discuss progress. This proposal seems to me to be in favour of greater involvement of the parliamentary assemblies in the reflections on climate policy and the strengthening of cooperation between the federal state and federated entities. In this regard, I welcome the initiative taken by the regional parliaments and the Chamber for COP 23: the establishment of a coherent and ambitious climate and transition policy by all relevant authorities in all relevant fields, the consolidation of the means available to develop climate policies, in particular by ensuring that the corresponding services of the administrations of the different levels of power are strengthened. We're already working very well, but we can go even further. These few recommendations seem to me to go quite in the right direction and deserve to be discussed. I have taken the initiative to call on Minister Lacroix, who, as I said, is chairing the National Climate Commission, to invite a high-level representative of the Senate to come to this committee to present the recommendations adopted by this House. In this way, I hope to initiate, particularly within the National Climate Commission, an in-depth and broader reflection on how to strengthen it and improve its functioning and transparency. I have also instructed my administration to initiate a reflection and dialogue on the possibilities of improving climate governance in our country, taking into account the recommendations of the Senate, the opinions of the Federal and Regional Advisory Councils and other stakeholders' input, in particular to enable our country to meet the new governance requirements in the context of the European Energy and Climate Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u80	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u81	Question No 17753 by Mr Nollet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u82	The Council of Ministers of 28 April this year seems to have taken note of the draft framework text for a national sustainable development strategy. Can you tell us why an act is taken rather than an approval? Have you since included this item on the agenda of a Consultation Committee? What came out of it? What are the (if any) blocking points? What are the next steps that still need to be taken in order for this strategy to finally be adopted?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your interest in the national sustainable development strategy. The Council of Ministers took note of the national strategy on 28 April. The draft framework text of the national strategy had already been approved by an inter-federal inter-cabinet in early February (due to the institutional complexity of our country!) It was forwarded to the Government of each Belgian entity for action before being formally approved by the Ministers of the Interministerial Conference on Sustainable Development on 3 May. The Ministers of the Inter-Ministerial Conference formally approve, as they are responsible for coordinating the implementation of the strategy. In order to ensure a high level of political commitment, the item will also be communicated to the Consultation Committee by the Flemish Presidency of the Interdepartmental Conference on Sustainable Development. The national strategy is therefore adopted and its implementation has started through the technical working groups at the administrative level. The discussions within the respective governments or the consultation committee did not change the content of the framework text of the national strategy as proposed by the Interdepartmental Conference. The ambition remains to strengthen coherence within each entity, to create synergies on the first stages in order to strengthen cooperation. They complement sustainable development strategies with a common vision based on the 17 sustainable development goals and joint projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u84	If I understand correctly, the text is finally adopted! Can I ask to send us the Internet link or a copy of the document as finally adopted? Can your collaborator send it to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u85	We have a Consultation Committee on May 30 and then we will send you the link. You never know! It has yet to pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u86	I thought it was definitely adopted and that you would present it to the Consultation Committee!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u87	I'm careful. It is not because everything seems calm that, for one reason or another, a remark cannot be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u88	Formally, do you consider that it is the Consultation Committee that must adopt it legally?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u89	In these matters, I am systematically very careful and I really wait for the last step before considering that everything is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u90	Could we have it when it's available?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u91	So it will be after May 30!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic666x.u92	Question No 18432 by Mr Senesael is transformed into a written question.
