ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u1	Mr President, Minister, my question is indeed about the malaise within the Benelux Union. You know that the Benelux is close to my heart, and I am asking you this question today as a matter of concern. In recent years, the Benelux Parliament and the Secretariat-General of the Benelux countries have given a new impetus to cooperation between our three countries. The new Treaty of 2008 provided the Union with a framework to shape cooperation more effectively and dynamically. This modernisation came just in time. Now that the European Union is experiencing a political crisis, our three countries must show more than ever that international cooperation pays off. The Benelux does this daily by seeking solutions to the obstacles that continue to pose the land borders. After all, the European internal market is far from being completed, security issues call for more data exchange, which came to the fore again this week, and the complex climate challenges need regional solutions. Over the last two years, I have had the honour of chairing the Benelux Parliament. I have been able to identify and actively support this new spring within the Union and within the Benelux Parliament. Governments have played a very proactive role in this. There is also greater cooperation at ministerial level. As Minister for Foreign Affairs, you successfully led the Belgian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers in 2015. The first ministers and the trade ministers also meet more and more in the Benelux context. The administrative centre of this cooperation is the General Secretariat of the Union, which has been established here in Brussels for decades. This institution has also resurrected in recent years and has made a quantum leap in terms of results and visibility. You've been able to see that yourself. You will therefore not be surprised that many, along with me, are looking with a great deal of incomprehension at the fact that the new College of Secretaries-General is not being appointed. On 1 January this year the new term of office of the members of the College was to begin. On 26 January I was present in The Hague at the start of the Dutch Presidency with your colleague, Mr Koenders. There was a great deal of disapproval of our country at the time, of the fact that there was no Secretary-General present. The appointed deputies were present, but the secretary-general himself was not present. On 20 February there was a meeting of the Benelux Ministers of Economy, including Minister Peeters, but again without Secretary-General. This is not good for the appearance of our country in relations with our best neighbors. However, I understand that the Interministerial Committee on Foreign Policy, the ICBB, already on 16 February last year recommended that Mr Luc Willems be a member of the College of Secretaries-General for a new term. This body consists of the ministers responsible for the foreign policy of the federal government, but also of the Communities and the Regions. On 15 February last, at the ICBB meeting, the report containing this decision was approved, once again confirming this candidacy. In April 2016, in the implementation of this intra-Belgian decision, you proposed Mr Luc Willems to your colleagues from the Benelux Committee of Ministers. It was then agreed that the Belgian member of the College of Secretaries-General would perform the function of Secretary-General in the context of a rotation of this function between the countries. On 13 December, the Benelux Committee of Ministers met to appoint the College of Secretaries-General from 1 January 2017. To everyone's surprise, the decision was blocked by Belgium just when a fellow countryman would take up this position for the first time. As a result, on 1 January there was no College of Secretaries-General. As a result, the Secretariat-General, which has been the driving force behind the many Benelux projects in recent years, has fallen into a maze. Belgium is no longer fully present in the day-to-day management and representation of the General Secretariat. This is evident from a number of recent events, of which I have already mentioned a few. Many of my fellow Members and I find that a real shame for our country. It is not neat to the two neighbouring countries, especially to the Dutch Presidency. Let us not forget that a few years ago there was a debate in the Netherlands on the added value of the Benelux, and it is particularly unfortunate that the schwung that has taken place in the General Secretariat over the last few years has stopped doing so. However, it is a time when the Benelux countries are needed and can and must play a leading role in Europe. I therefore have a few questions on this matter, Minister. Are you aware of the malaise of Benelux cooperation due to the Belgian blockade to appoint a new College of Secretaries-General before 1 January 2017? My most pertinent question is whether the ICBB decision of 16 February 2016 which agreed to propose Mr Willems and which you communicated to the Committee of Ministers in April 2016 has not been implemented so far? I don't understand. Will you quickly implement the decision, which will enable the Secretary-General to be appointed and the malaise to be brought to an end?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u2	Mrs Detiège, the federal government is very committed to the Benelux Union and seeks good cooperation within its institutions. In view of the renewal of the College of Secretaries-General, the Nuclear Cabinet decided on 24 February 2017 to propose Mr Thomas Antoine, currently Ambassador of Belgium to Luxembourg, as a Belgian member of this College and as Secretary-General. Mr Antoine has, as his record shows, the necessary qualities to run this organisation. The decision of 16 February 2016 to which you refer concerned the granting of the mandate of the Deputy Secretary-General. Meanwhile, at the Schengen Summit of 3 October 2016, the three first ministers of the Benelux countries decided that the post of secretary-general would go to the Belgian college member. This has changed the situation. Following the decision of the nuclear cabinet, the members of the ICBB were signed on 28 February 2017 with the request to approve the nomination of Mr Antoine as a Belgian member of the College of Secretaries-General. Mr Antoine will take up his duties at the beginning of April. The Council of Ministers confirmed the federal government's decision last Friday, 17 March. The Dutch Presidency finalises the last administrative shifts including the appointment decision of Mr Antoine. We will therefore have normal functioning with a new Secretary-General from the beginning of April.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u3	Minister, I am very concerned about this issue. We've worked well together on this, too. I'm now establishing a strange state of affairs in this file, and that hurts. There was an agreement. I am also thinking of the human aspects. Someone was certain of his appointment. You say there was an approval of the deputy. The people who informed me confirm with 100 percent certainty that it was not about the deputyship but about the post of Secretary-General. I think there's been a big misunderstanding between the actors on the field. You also said that the ICBB received a letter recently in February asking for its approval. I understand this was also approved by the ICBB. That's unclear to me. You say that Mr Thomas Antoine would start on 1 April. I understand you've given a letter, for information or for approval? Was that approved? Excuse me for asking me this way. So it's approved? Then all I can find out is that apparently someone was appointed from April 1st. I would like to congratulate that person on this, but I think it is an unusual course of events that people who have worked with heart and soul for a good working I can agree that this was the case and would be appointed first, suddenly see a different thinking path. That's unseen, isn't it? I hope this does not repeat itself in the future. Thank you for the explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u4	Minister, it is important to review the current situation in Burundi. According to the UN Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, Mr Dieng, the situation in Burundi is alarming. In a letter, he warns the members of the Security Council against the risk of massive violence, if no action is taken to put an end to the crisis that broke out almost two years ago. In that letter, Mr. Dieng informed that the Burundian authorities were considering blowing up the lock that currently prevented the President from running for a third term. President Nkurunziza has just set up the commission to propose a revision of the Constitution. He also noted several worrying signs, namely the cessation of the crisis dialogue, Burundi's withdrawal from the International Criminal Court (ICC), restrictions on international and local organizations, and hate speech by certain authorities. In addition, human rights violations and abuses committed by members of the secret service, the police and the army must be noted. In addition, there are reports that the security forces arrest and hold women in secret, some of whom would never reappear. According to those sources, the Burundian authorities would close their eyes to unspeakable crimes committed against women: rape, sexual abuse and murder. When an investigation is initiated as a result of one of these facts, the latter would often be neither serious nor objective. The UN Special Adviser calls on the Security Council to take vigorous action to put an end to this crisis. What is your reading of the situation in Burundi and the additional actions that could be taken? Finally, have you ever been informed of the problem of alleged abuse by members of the security forces? If so, what follow-up has been given? Secondly, I would like to ask you about the new law governing the establishment of foreign non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in Burundi, which was promulgated on 23 January. Since this new text, any ENGO applying for approval must apply to the Minister for International Cooperation, who has three months to analyse and deliver his opinion. In addition to this validation, ENGOs will now have to meet other requirements. In other words, ENGOs will be much more monitored and controlled by State bodies in the context we know. An Interdepartmental Monitoring and Evaluation Committee for these ENGOs has been set up to validate the achievements of the projects of these organizations and to advise on the extension of their activities. The latter will also, in agreement with the minister concerned, have to define their scope and areas of execution. Minister, what is your position on this new law that will apply to all non-governmental and foreign organizations? Does Belgium intend to react to this measure? Does this new regulation, in your opinion, "filter" the ENGOs to whom state bodies will grant approval, as one may fear? Have you ever discussed this with your colleague in charge of development cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u5	Mr President, my question also relates to Burundi, but it is based on a report prepared by the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues concerning, inter alia, the radical change in Burundi and the repression associated with it. Several months after the conclusions of this report, abuses are still at work. The organization and the media report a genocidal dynamic and an ethnicization of violence, particularly against the Tutsi military. Some members of the armed forces were hunted down, tortured with the aim of denouncing other Tutsi soldiers, and then executed. The repression of these soldiers is also carried out through arbitrary detention and convictions of up to 30 years in prison, for example for attempted robbery. Minister, have you read that report? Are the information available to your department consistent with the information contained in this report? Do the information provided to you indicate increased repression and abuses against the Tutsi military? Furthermore, can you give us an update on the relations between Belgium and Bujumbura? Did Belgium state its position on this repression? What are Belgium's diplomatic efforts to put an end to this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, to return to your last question, Mrs Jadin, my department has indeed taken note of the international report of the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues (FIDH), which gave rise to this conference in the Senate last November. Given Burundi's history, it is important to remain vigilant about the ethnic issue and FIDH, like Ambassador Dieng, are in their role when they warn of certain abuses in this regard. As a Belgian minister, I remain cautious about the use of terms such as "genocide", particularly in the current context. At this stage, the conflict essentially reflects a political divide. However, the danger of an ethnicization of the conflict is very real, and we are already seeing consequences in this regard, which are reflected in the various international reports. That is why we recall in all our interventions on Burundi that it is necessary to preserve the ethnic balances provided for in the Arusha Agreement. As long as Burundi remains in crisis, this requirement must continue to be recalled. It is also important to avoid hate speech and finally, it is essential to find a political response to the crisis. That is why I always call for caution when using some terminology. You are right to talk about the tensions that exist today and the consequences that have been noted. Without going too far in the process, unfortunately, we do not have the means to accurately verify the number of Tutsi soldiers (or other ethnic groups) killed, imprisoned or tortured. The same applies to sexual violence committed by security forces or militias difficult to control by the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights in the current circumstances. It is the problem of human rights monitoring in Burundi that is taking place under particularly difficult conditions, both for local observers and for those of the African Union or the United Nations. However, we are told that there has been an increase in the repression of ex-FABs, particularly following the attack on Camp Mukoni in Muyinga. There is a need for great vigilance in this regard. I had the opportunity to discuss this with the High Commissioner for Human Rights during my visit to Geneva for the Human Rights Council. We keep the channels of communication open with Bujumbura, but in all our contacts with the Burundian authorities we express our deep concern about the human rights situation and we call for Burundi to cooperate with the United Nations. I am referring mainly to the negotiation of the Headquarters Agreement with the United Nations Office for Human Rights and access to Burundian territory for the investigators of the Human Rights Inquiry Commission. Human rights were at the heart of my messages at my meeting with my counterpart Alain Nyamitwe on 9 March, during which I reminded him that the international community was waiting for action in this area as well as in terms of political openness to begin to restore confidence. Belgium cannot, of course, solve the Burundian crisis alone. However, we can hope that the increase in our contacts at all levels with the Burundian authorities will eventually convince them to initiate a positive dynamic in terms of human rights and political openness. However, the commitment of the international community remains necessary. I note that after a period of floating, it seems to be again active on Burundi. A discussion on the local situation took place in the Security Council last week on the basis of the report of Mr. Jamal Benomar, Special Adviser to the Secretary-General. The Human Rights Council is also addressing this issue during its current session in Geneva. You may have followed these debates in which Belgium spoke with clear messages. In addition, the East African Community will also speak on the situation in Burundi at its next summit, which is scheduled to take place next month. Mr. Mkapa, former Tanzanian President, did not hide his desire for greater support from the region, particularly Uganda and Tanzania, in his facilitation efforts. The message from the East African Community will be crucial in trying to change the situation. Mr Crusnière, you are raising the issue of the new law on ENGOs, adopted last December without prior consultation with those concerned. I can only note that she raises a lot of questions. Indeed, some of its provisions may constitute a serious impediment to the activities of these ENGOs in Burundi. I am thinking in particular of their obligation to open an account with the Central Bank to pay a third of their budget, or to limit their operating budget to 35%. The obligation to respect ethnic quotas for their Burundian personnel is even literally inapplicable. The Arusha Agreement does not provide for an ethnic quota for ENGO workers. There is a risk of filtering them through the approval of the authorities, but above all there is a risk of discouragement by the ENGOs who, for many, will hesitate to work in Burundi if they are subjected to such drastic conditions. This country is in great need of foreign aid. I would like to make it clear that the economic situation is so bad today that famine has returned to some provinces and that the Burundian government has just officially declared an epidemic of malaria. I would also like to point out that the freedom and security of members of civil society and human rights defenders are among the indicators identified under the Article 96 procedure provided for in the Cotonou Agreement. I have had the opportunity to discuss the situation on the spot several times with my cooperation colleague, Mr De Croo, with whom I will continue to follow up on the matter. It is obvious that there have been, and still are, a large number of refugees. There were a lot of victims of violence during this increasingly isolated situation in Burundi or Burundi's withdrawal from itself. I repeat several things. We will continue to keep channels open through our embassy on site, as on-line when I have the opportunity to meet my colleague, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I want to confirm, because I see messages on social networks, that sanctions should be imposed on Burundi. I repeated several times that we had been a little bit fast, which I honestly think, in the way of working. But it is obvious, when we see the situation, that sanctions should be imposed on Burundi, and they are maintained as long as there is no positive move towards an opening of dialogue. But today's concern is also - and I have just said so - about not only economic but also health developments within the country. The country is becoming increasingly closed to itself and there are growing concerns about both economic developments, and even malnutrition or famine in some regions, and health developments more generally.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u7	Minister, thank you for these answers. We have already discussed this at length in this committee. I agree with you that this is, above all, a political problem, not an ethnic one. As we know, what triggered all of this is the willingness of the current President to represent himself. But, in spite of everything, it would not take much to turn it into an ethnic conflict. There is permanent tension there and this could, unfortunately, lead to even more serious conflicts than those we are currently witnessing. A political solution is indeed needed, but there is a feeling that it is becoming more and more complicated with this will now to amend the Constitution. We must continue to put pressure on the power in place and, of course, also in terms of human rights. I think that's what you're doing. I fully agree with you on sanctions. We too must continue to do so in our parliamentary contacts. Currently, a delegation has just arrived and has requested to be received within the framework of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. So I transferred the various requests because the embassy contacted me. I assume that we will be able to meet them later this week and we will, believe us, make the same speech. It's important. As far as ENGOs are concerned, I have the same perception as you. With the tragedy, the sanctions and the end of state aid, it is again the citizens, the Burundians who suffer. Indeed, one of the means is to go through these ENGOs, but I fear, like you, that ENGOs also tend to want to withdraw from the control that the power in place wants to carry out. This may further complicate the humanitarian, security and health situation on the ground in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u8	Mr President, I share both the minister's point of view and what has just been said by my colleague Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u9	I'm wondering. The questions are written. The minister is aware of this. Why, in the tradition of our house, do we still have to present an oral question that has been written? But follow the rules of the house!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u10	You know, Mr President, that parliamentarians like to speak often to say nothing, I agree. Minister, may I ask you about your meeting with your Algerian counterpart, Mr Lamamra. I imagine you have discussed many topical issues with him. Can you give us a debriefing of your meeting with Mr. Lamamra? It would appear that you have addressed the fight against terrorism, referring to bilateral cooperation and intelligence cooperation. Can you tell us more about this particular subject? According to your colleague in charge of Asylum and Migration, you should also have mentioned the return of undocumented people to Algeria. Could you tell us a word? Finally, did you discuss with him the future of relations between the European Union and the Maghreb countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u11	Mr Crusnière, I did indeed meet my Algerian counterpart, Mr Ramtane Lamamra, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on 15 February last, in the margins of the International Conference on Mediation. We planned an interview on that occasion. The following points were raised: Mr Lamamra wishes to further develop bilateral economic relations with particular attention for the energy and transport sector. The recent visit of the Algerian Minister of Transport and the announced visit of the Algerian Minister of Energy demonstrate a new impetus for economic relations between our country and Algeria. The security situation and recent developments in the region, among which the situation in Mali and Western Sahara were raised during our conversation. I stressed that the European Union should play a more visible role and should support the African Union and regional partners in the implementation of the Algiers Agreement, which can contribute to stabilization and peacekeeping in the Sahel. I asked the minister about the current situation in Mali and in particular about the follow-up to the Algiers agreement. I remain convinced that the Sahel is probably one of the regions of the world in which the European Union can really pursue a comprehensive strategy and could be an even more important and present actor than it is today. You know that Belgium is playing a decisive role now, having taken the lead in a number of military operations, particularly in Mali. With regard to the fight against terrorism and extremism, Minister Lamamra has expressed support for the principles of greater international collaboration. Algeria is available to contribute to the fight against radicalism. I have indicated to him the importance Belgium attaches to respect for human rights in Algeria. We briefly discussed the results of the Prime Minister's visit to Algeria in December 2016. This has led to improved cooperation on the readmission of irregular migrants. Which was confirmed in my interview with Mr. Lamamra. He repeated to me this willingness to move forward in this context. Bilateral police cooperation, for which negotiations were also well advanced, the possibility of cooperation in the field of intelligence and the fight against radicalism and terrorism were also discussed. The Minister was informed of the working visit of the Internal FPS, the Office of Foreigners, the Federal Police and the State Security in Algeria. It should take place in the coming weeks to give concrete expression to this wider cooperation between services. As expressed in my reply of 17 February to Mr Denis Ducrame's question, during this meeting I stressed the importance of regional cooperation between the Maghreb countries. Minister Lamamra highlighted not only the common challenges – terrorism, migration – but also the importance of developing a European strategy to strengthen cooperation with the Maghreb countries. I have also mentioned the idea that the Maghreb and Benelux countries could enter into discussions on the subject. I had already developed this idea with my Tunisian colleague and the Tunisian authorities at most during my recent visit to Tunis. It would be an opportunity to make progress. I would also point out that we also discussed with Mr Lamamra the situation of Morocco's return to the African Union. This, of course, also has consequences for how we can discuss common issues. I am not saying that we are going to be able to set up some sort of Benelux in the Maghreb or the European Union in the Maghreb in a very short time, but perhaps by starting with very concrete technical subjects we can make progress in relations between the countries of the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u12	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u13	Mrs Jadin, I give you the floor to Question No 16890 on the situation of women in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u14	Mr President, I wish to turn this question into a written question because it concerns an answer given to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u15	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u16	Mr President, Minister, the United Nations recently called on the States signatories to the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance to ratify the Convention. The Convention has now been open for ratification for ten years and 55 Member States have ratified it, with Belgium being one of the States in the process of ratification. Given the importance of this subject in the context of migration, internal conflicts in the world or humanitarian crises affecting all countries and Europe, where are we in the stages of ratification, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, in 2011, all the relevant parliaments had agreed to the Convention, the Federal Parliament being the first of all. The Act of Consent of this Convention dates from 6 April 2010 and was published in the Belgian Monitor of 30 June 2011. On 2 June 2011, Belgium deposited its instrument of ratification with the depositary, the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The Convention entered into force for Belgium on 2 July 2011.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u18	Mr Minister, at the end of February your department relaxed its travel notice for Tunisia: "As long as the recommended caution is observed, travellers can travel to Tunis, on the coastal axis Mahdia/Monastir/Sousse/Hammamet/Nabeul/Tunis/Bizerte", says the Foreign Affairs website, while all non-essential trips to Tunisia were previously not recommended. In early March, you visited Tunisia on an official mission, whose bilateral relations in general and the security situation in the country were at the centre of the discussions. I came back from a mission on the spot myself. Can you give us a brief account of your visit? Have you noticed Tunisia's efforts to lift the negative travel notice? Is the complete lifting of this opinion under consideration and planned soon with all the precautions for use?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u19	The working visit to Tunis at the beginning of March allowed me to meet President Beji Caid Essebsi, Head of Government Youssef Chahed, as well as several ministers, including my counterpart Khemaies Jhinaoui, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Development and Investment, the Minister of Tourism. We have discussed many issues: our bilateral cooperation, particularly in the area of security and migration, the sectors envisaged in the context of the partial conversion of Tunisian debt, the economic prospects, including the business climate in Tunisia, the forthcoming municipal and regional elections in Tunisia, the fight against terrorism and radicalism, human rights, the situation in Libya, and the Libyan border. I have spoken with several civil society officials about the fight against radicalization and women's rights, particularly in view of the upcoming municipal and regional elections, which are expected to take place at the end of this year or early 2018. I have seen numerous security efforts by Tunisia since the tragic attacks on Bardo and Sousse, particularly during my visit to the security hub in Tunisia. This undeniable progress has fed into the evaluation of our services and is the basis for the accuracy of my department's travel notice. This amendment maintains a strong call for caution, as the threat remains present. Our services are always very attentive to the evolution of security in Tunisia. The travel notice, which, I repeat, remains an opinion, will evolve according to the evolution of the security situation on the spot. I do not rule out going further in a more favourable opinion, but neither can I rule out that we can step back. All this will depend on the evolution of the situation. In any case, a complete lifting seems to me, in view of the situation on the Libyan border and on the Algerian border, which is particularly problematic. But we will continue to have the situation assessed on a regular basis by the security services. This is by no means an analysis linked to aspects other than safety. The aim is to give the most objective opinion possible to our compatriots, without prohibiting anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. We have already had this debate in committee on several occasions. In recent days, I have met with both representatives of civil society and political representatives on the spot. I was struck by the feeling of injustice that animates them. They feel like they are being treated differently from Turkey, for example. They really stressed that all measures were being taken to ensure that, in terms of security, the situation was as optimal as it was. I assume that you have heard them in part, since we can see a positive development, which we welcome. But I wanted to share with you these elements, which are regularly reported on the spot, but also within the Tunisian community in Belgium. Moreover, as you said, the issue of debt has been raised. There is a strong demand in this area. There are claims from some of the representatives I met regarding the portion of the debt that was contracted under the previous regime. Indeed, they consider that this debt is not legitimate in that it has not benefited the Tunisian people. They also wish to take a series of steps and it would be welcome if Belgium could support Tunisia in this regard, since it is possible to question objectively and legitimately the legitimacy of this debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u21	So that there's no misunderstanding, when I'm talking about debt forgiveness, it's an operation we're doing. There are already more than 10 per cent of the debt that will be repaid and we are looking for projects that will be financed through this. We have begun debt relief operations. As far as opinions are concerned, I can only repeat what I have said on the spot and what I am saying to many journalists or parliamentarians who are asking me about the subject: rather than talking about Turkey in general, read the travel notice concerning Turkey and you will observe whether its content is really much more favourable than the one we are writing about Tunisia. Compare the two, reading the opinion on Turkey and not just hearing what they say!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u22	Minister, on debt, I continue to insist even if I hear that there is a willingness to turn part of it into investment projects. It is only a very small percentage and I continue to insist that we should be able to highlight the illegitimacy of a large part of this debt. This could give this country a real breath of oxygen. As far as travel notices are concerned, I am only reporting on what has been heard on many occasions and what I continue to hear. Things may not be clear enough on the site, I don't know, but when I read them, I don't have the impression that the opinions are exactly the same for Turkey and Tunisia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u23	Mr President, Minister, at the end of February in Geneva, you pleaded at an event at the Graduate Institute Geneva, together with the Director General of the World Trade Organization (WTO), Roberto Azevedo, and his counterpart of the International Labour Organization (ILO), Guy Ryder, for the establishment of an inclusive trading system that can respond to the concerns of the people generated by globalization. You have also outlined the four areas on which Belgium wants to work for the negotiation of future trade treaties: transparency in negotiations and agreements, the priority benefits for citizens and SMEs, a more equitable system and the inclusion of sustainable development clauses in agreements. I think that was mentioned in the discussion on the bill. Minister, can you explain to us what you mean by "inclusive free trade"? Is there any agreement with the federated entities on this matter? Can you develop the four axes on which Belgium intends to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, indeed, at an event on 28 February 2017, co-organized by Belgium and the Graduate Institute Geneva, I had the opportunity to dialogue with the Directors General of the World Trade Organisation and the International Labour Organisation on the theme of inclusive trade. I also invite those interested in this topic to view these debates, the streaming of which, of course in English, is available online on the Graduate Institute Geneva website. Secondly, improving the integration of small and medium-sized enterprises into international trade, the primary source of job creation in Belgium and other countries. Thirdly, to ensure a level playing field for international competition. For this reason, Belgium fully supports the European Union's efforts to modernise its trade defence instruments and to review its anti-dumping methodology. Fourthly, to further improve the implementation of social and environmental standards clauses in European trade agreements, usually grouped under the so-called sustainable development chapter. My speech in Geneva is therefore part of the logical continuation of my successive policy statements presented to Parliament since I was in charge of trade policy. Finally, the cross-cutting implementation of this policy is the subject of continuous consultation with the federated entities, through the meetings in DGE, to which they are invited at the average frequency of one per week. You can hardly imagine going any further. In consultation with Parliament, I would of course be happy to present to your committee a report on the state of implementation of the various trade treaties, hoping, Mr President, that we will be more than two at the beginning of the presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope that next time, if it turns out that many parliamentarians are on a mission abroad, we can postpone this debate so that we are all present and we can discuss it together so that active participation in this committee is the best possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u26	Minister, next weekend will be a commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. The EU Heads of State or Government meet in Rome for this purpose. Following that meeting and that celebration for the 60th anniversary, the European Commission has written a White Paper on the future of Europe. It sets out a number of scenarios to which the European Union can evolve by 2025. I will not bring forward these scenarios here, but I do have a number of questions. What scenario do you put forward as the best for the EU? What are your arguments for that position? I have seen that an agreement has already been reached on the concept of a Europe of different speeds. Normally, that will be recorded as well. According to an article by Belga this afternoon, there is already an agreement on this. How do you estimate that evolution? What is the motivation of the various Member States on this concept? What expectations do you have of the Rome Summit and the European Commission's White Paper?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u27	Mr Van Peteghem, the Belgian Government has not taken a formal position on the White Paper. This is a White Paper from the Commission, which has not really been discussed in the Council, even during the preparation of the summit at the end of this week in Rome. In any case, certain measures seem to be excluded, such as the European Union's reorientation into a purely internal market. Moreover, other scenarios cited by the Commission are not mutually exclusive. For example, one can reduce the Union's action of 27 in certain areas and at the same time make it possible for those who wish to go further to do so within the institutional framework of the Union. We can also argue for reforms in the short term, but at the same time maintain the possibility of implementing more ambitious reforms in the longer term that would require a revision of the Treaties. In fact, at the end of last week, when the European summit was being prepared, we put on the table a Benelux document with a number of clear orientations on the different speeds. I would prefer a different terminology, with different dimensions. With Britain, moreover, we have seen that it was possible to move in a completely different direction rather than at different speeds. It is also possible to leave the European Union. However, it would be very useful to manage certain powers with groups of countries, as is already the case in the euro area, with 19 Member States of the European Union. This is also possible in the field of defence, with 22 EU Member States within NATO. It is also possible for Schengen. So why should it not be possible for other powers? That means a European Union with different dimensions, which is, in fact, a differentiation. Now I have heard that it would be possible for almost all Member States to come to such an approach. We shall therefore argue in favour of this. We will take further steps to arrive at a real description of the possible evolution of the European Union. Finally, I would like to say that after the elections in the Netherlands there may be a more positive view of cooperation between the European countries in this respect. However, we must wait for the next elections, not only in France but also in Germany and the Czech Republic. So it's going to be a very difficult year. I repeat that no formal position has yet been taken on the White Paper, but there is a Benelux proposal on the table. We are in favour of differentiation in Europe. It is impossible to maintain the status quo only on the basis of a refusal by one or two countries for one or two powers. The position we are arguing for is differentiation. It is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u28	Minister, it is indeed a good thing that we are moving towards a Europe of different dimensions or speeds. That is indeed the path we must take. We must, of course, be careful not to turn Europe into a Europe with different speeds in different directions. It will be important that we all continue in the same direction. However, it is clear that differentiation must be possible in one way or another.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u29	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the proximity of the Turkish referendum on a revision of the Constitution strengthening the presidential character of the regime has led to a series of tensions between Turkish and European leaders. These tensions have undoubtedly been exacerbated by the holding of elections in the Netherlands on 15 March, by the German electoral deadline of September, by the French presidential elections in April-May, all against the background of the rise of xenophobic parties. Belgium and France, committed to freedom of expression, have, in so far as there was no risk of disturbance to public order, authorised the holding of meetings on their territory. In our country, these authorizations are the responsibility of the mayors. Some of them, such as the mayor of Saint-Josse, accepted the organization of meetings, while others, such as the mayors of Antwerp and Ghent, banned them. In Germany, meetings were also allowed. The Netherlands and Denmark have banned them, which has led to sometimes violent demonstrations by citizens of Turkish origin who have felt harmed in their dignity. One of the lessons to be drawn from this situation is that Mr Erdogan, whom some in other parties call the "Pasha", plays with these internal tensions in European countries in order to stir up the nationalist flame he has lit, at the risk of seeing Turkish nationals, although very well integrated in our countries, stigmatised as a result of these events. Unfortunately, once again, Europe shows where its weakness is. The sovereignty of States cannot be called into question, but the fact that they each express a different reading allows our non-European interlocutors to exploit the lack of a common and strong position. Deputy Prime Minister, European leaders meet regularly. On 9 March, a meeting was held in Brussels. Has this topic been addressed in your interviews with your counterparts? Is the issue of the need to increase the weight of the European word now being addressed by the 28 or 27 countries? Is there any hope, finally, that Mrs Mogherini will express an ex ante common position on matters where Europe must make its position heard in a strong, rather than ex post, way to try to express a middle position, weakened by polemics and everyone for himself in the resolution of diplomatic tensions? What position do you stand in this area? Is the path of a common and strong word from Europe about to be traced or, to paraphrase Stalin – excuse me for the reference – will we have to say "Europe, how many divisions" between the different states that make up it, how many different positions when they do not oppose?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u30	Mr President, Mr Minister, my first question is in the same direction as that of my colleague Flahaux, since I also wonder about our country's possible reaction to the Austrian call to defend a unanimous position on the holding (or not) of electoral demonstrations – which, according to interpretations, could be regarded as interference in the sovereignty of European states – as to why such a position could not have been achieved and whether there is still an interest in discussing this kind of phenomenon which might still be represented in the future. Mr Minister, my second question concerns Turkey and concerns the violation of human rights in the south-east of this country. Last February, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights published a report on allegations of mass destruction, murder and other serious violations in south-eastern Turkey, representing more than fourteen provinces, since July 2015. The report also reports on violations committed during operations led by government forces in more than 30 cities and districts. During this period, more than 335,000 people, mainly Kurdish, were displaced and more than 2,000 people were killed in security operations. In addition, the report details enforced disappearances, assassinations and massive destruction of private or cultural property. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, are you aware of the report? In view of the current context and the holding of the referendum on 16 April, what influence do you think President Erdogan would have on the human rights situation in south-eastern Turkey? What is Belgium's position or assessment on these violations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the debates in plenary last Thursday, I have already had the opportunity to come back to Belgium's position on the organisation of electoral meetings related to the Turkish referendum, on the constitutional amendments, and on the unacceptable remarks against the Netherlands or Germany, which have been completed in recent days, including with regard to one of the members of the Belgian Government. The Prime Minister has had the opportunity to respond very strongly to this issue. As far as meetings are concerned, the main principles governing our position have already been recalled. Freedom of expression is a fundamental value for Belgium and the European Union. It must prevail in our country, and if possible, anywhere in the world. In addition to this general principle, there is the need to ensure public order and security. It is up to the local authorities, with the support of the police, to assess the risk of disturbances to public order and to take the necessary measures, including the possible cancellation of events in the context of the Turkish referendum campaign. These principles have led some municipalities to maintain and others to cancel certain meetings in the Turkish referendum. I do not have comprehensive information on all events of this nature planned or organized in our country. However, I can confirm that several municipalities are involved, both in the north and south of the country, as well as in Brussels. The organizers are associations from the Turkish community in our country, linked to different political trends, and therefore not exclusively to the AKP (Justice and Development Party). For more information on the number of municipalities concerned and the type of events organised, I invite you to ask my colleague the Minister of the Interior. Other demonstrations concerning Turkey are organised independently of the referendum and are allowed or not on the basis of analyses of public order carried out by the security services, which lead to a decision by the mayors. According to a note verbale from the Turkish Embassy, the number of participants in the referendum in Belgium is estimated at 63 000 at the polling stations at the Turkish Consulate General in Brussels and at a similar number at the polling stations to be opened in Antwerp. We can regret the absence of a common European position on the organisation of meetings. It is due to the responsibility of each Member State concerned, its national legislation and its assessment of the situation within its borders. It is not possible to adopt a truly common European position on the subject, especially since this concerns only a limited number of Member States. It is clear that exchanges on this subject have taken place between European partners and are continuing at ministerial level, particularly in the margins of recent Councils, and at the level of administrations. I would add – but it is a remark I have often made to colleagues – that in order to arrive at a common position, it would obviously be better if, before taking any decision, a first consultation took place. If a Member State takes a decision and then asks for a common position, it is no longer really a dialogue, it is no longer really an open discussion. This also raises a bit of the problem of how to organise this consultation. I would prefer that we all be on exactly the same line, if we had the reasons to go in the same direction. I recalled the rules that govern our conduct in electoral meetings. While the positions therefore diverge on the desirability of allowing such meetings and the manner in which they are in some cases cancelled, there is, on the other hand, unanimity within the European Union to call statements addressed to certain Member States "unacceptable". This unanimity also exists to call for de-escalation. I myself echoed this last week by means of a press release and in the plenary of the House. It seems, however, that these calls for calm have not been heard, considering what has been said again this weekend in Turkey. The situation is becoming increasingly worrying, not only in the context of the referendum campaign, but much more so in relation to relations between the European Union and Turkey. Several recent reports from Council of Europe and United Nations bodies inform us of the extent of human rights violations and the decline in the rule of law in Turkey. The human rights violations you are referring to in south-eastern Turkey, Ms Jadin, have long been of concern to us, particularly since the resumption of the armed conflict in July 2015. My services have read the report of the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, to which you refer. This report provides us with objective and high-quality information on the human rights situation in south-eastern Turkey. The analysis confirms the concerns expressed by the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, in a memorandum he drafted on this subject at the end of 2016, following his two visits to Turkey in April and September 2016. Such contributions should contribute to a debate with the country concerned and lead to appropriate measures to address the concerns raised, to halt human rights violations on the ground and to ensure that victims of violations are heard and rehabilitated where appropriate. We hope Ankara will see things the same way. Given the latest developments, I do not think it is realistic to expect this discussion to be initiated in a calm manner prior to the April 16 referendum, but I continue to hope that we will be able to address this issue within weeks of that date. It is essential that Ankara fulfil its international human rights commitments, both within the UN framework and within the Council of Europe. Belgium will continue to focus on this issue alongside its European partners but also in other areas. In this context, we hope, among other things, that the Turkish authorities will allow better access to the teams of the office that I have just mentioned in terms of human rights, but also to the other United Nations interlocutors in the area concerned, as specified in the conclusions of the report. This has been recalled several times, including bilaterally, to the Turkish authorities. This was also a commitment made by the Turkish Minister for European Affairs during the first contacts we had after last summer in Bratislava. I hope that the situation can change, but I repeat, the statements that have been made recently in Ankara are totally unacceptable. It has also been recalled, not only with regard to the Netherlands or Germany, for example, but also with regard to a member of the Belgian Government. What has been said over the last few hours does not seem to be on the path of appeasement. But we distinguish between the holding of a number of meetings and the statements which, unfortunately, are made during this pre-referendum period in Ankara.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that the situation is particularly complex. We know that we should almost add another refugee problem that prevents us from acting as we really wish. That's clear. This is extremely frustrating because Turkey is a country, beyond its tourist and other interests, which has long been a model. It is a largely Muslim country where women had acquired an extremely important role. I would point out that 25% of university professors are women, which is far from the case in all European countries. So it is really "quick" to see that Mr Erdogan – excuse me for the term that is not very diplomatic – adopts such an attitude. But beyond the totally unacceptable statements against the German Chancellor or the Dutch Prime Minister, it is clear that there are also other parameters. When we see that, in this campaign, leaflets show the Muslim crescent that must fight against the cross, I feel that I have returned to time immemorial and unacceptable. It's similar to Wilders' campaign, but in the opposite direction. From this perspective, I understand that diplomacy is needed to the extent that it is almost as unmanipable as Trump – and I accept my remarks, which are not those of the minister. It is therefore extremely delicate. I thank the Minister for his answers and now give the floor to my distinguished colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u33	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, what can I add, except that this situation is particularly worrying in view of all the issues at stake and in view of the way in which we wish to convey democratic values in our countries. If I hear or see, through various news programmes, that elections or even referendums are often won by European citizens of Turkish origin, I wonder about the dissemination of our democratic values, including at home. Of course, that's a cause for concern. Of course, and you are absolutely right, Minister, freedom of expression must be guaranteed. And it is total in Belgium, as long as public order is respected. I hear that it will be difficult to address the problem in south-eastern Turkey. Of course, I wish the minister a great deal of courage so that he can weigh his weight and put forward his arguments, which I always know are very relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u34	A French news site had recently called into question the internal disciplinary procedure at the United Nations and the treatment of sexual abuse. He claims that the rules, though clear, are largely flouted on the ground by the soldiers acting under the UN flag. Soldiers intoxicated by the sensation of all power but also latent racism would undermine the United Nations rule. The facts are reported in several countries such as Bosnia, East Timor, Cambodia and Guinea, as well as more recently Haiti and the Central African Republic. Nevertheless, the newspaper states that, over the period from 2008 to 2013, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has experienced the most rape, including one third of minors. Minister, has your department been aware of this article? Had he also been able to read the report submitted by the United Nations on abuses committed? In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, a country followed by your department, have similar facts been reported? Does Belgium intend to support a position with that organisation calling for more effective sanctions against military personnel or personnel who have committed sexual violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u35	Mrs Jadin, it has not been possible for my services, on the basis of the information you have provided, to identify the press article to which you refer. If you have more details on this article, I will communicate them. However, I can say that the Secretary-General of the United Nations publishes an annual report on the issue of sexual abuse by personnel serving under the banner of the United Nations. The latest report was released on 28 February. It is marked A71818 and covers the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. The report indicates that 145 allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse were collected throughout 2016, including 65 allegations of United Nations civilian personnel and 80 allegations of uniformed personnel. Of those 145 allegations, 103 concerned personnel from peacekeeping missions and special political missions. With regard to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the report for 2016 reported 19 allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse: 5 involving civilian personnel and 14 uniformed personnel. The promotion of women's rights and particularly the fight against violence against women is a priority of Belgian foreign policy in the UN fora, particularly in the General Assembly (fifth and sixth Committee, Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations). Our country advocates zero tolerance for sexual abuse by United Nations personnel. In this regard, Belgium fully supports the efforts of the Secretary-General and supports his determination to combat this intolerable scourge. The appointment last year by Mr. Ban Ki-moon of a special coordinator for improving the United Nations response to sexual exploitation and abuse is a very positive development. Belgium also supports the strategy proposed by the new Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, in his latest report aimed at ending impunity and giving priority to the rights and dignity of victims. Like the Secretary-General, I also consider it crucial to promote a better balance in the proportion of women and men in peacekeeping operations and in special political missions. Advancing parity will help reduce abuse. These abuses are obviously all the more unacceptable because they are committed by officials sent by the United Nations on the ground in order, in principle, to bring peace and guarantee security to the civilian population.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u36	I note that there is no reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u37	Mr. Maingain has been notified. If he does not make a statement by the end of the sitting, his Question No will lapse. 17128.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u38	Mr President, Minister, I should like to ask you about your bilateral meeting with your British counterpart, Mr Johnson, in Brussels. A few days from the start of the negotiations for Brexit - on 29 March is mentioned - I imagine that you have discussed the modalities of Brexit and the future architecture of bilateral relations between Belgium and the United Kingdom, both politically and socio-economically. Minister, can you first debrief us about your meeting with Mr. Johnson? What is the Belgian position that you have exposed to him? Finally, did you come back to the words of the British Minister of Economy who said that London would not hesitate to change and make the British economic and fiscal model more attractive and competitive if it did not gain access to the European market?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u39	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, on Monday 6 March I met my British counterpart, Mr Boris Johnson, at a dinner for a bilateral contact in Brussels at the Egmont Palace. After a brief exchange of views on the commemoration of the thirty years of the sinking of the Herald of Free Enterprise and on the commemoration of the Battle of Passendaele which will take place at the end of July, our discussion obviously focused on the negotiations for Brexit. This was a general discussion on how to withdraw after the notification of article 50 had been activated. We have been told that this will be the case on March 29, 2017. I called for greater clarity and precision on the British wishes for future relations between Great Britain and the European Union, particularly in the area of arbitration, since London rejects the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice in the future relationship. I then recalled the point of view we share within the European Union. I have indicated that once Article 50 has been notified, we wish to start negotiations on leaving the Union, bearing in mind that transitional measures would be necessary. My interlocutor stressed the desire of the United Kingdom to see the European Union succeed, emphasizing the importance of developing an area of European prosperity. He regularly pointed out - and not only at this bilateral meeting - that Britain was leaving the European Union but did not leave Europe. I will let you draw the conclusions of this statement. It could mean that, for example in NATO, we will continue to work with Britain. In addition to the British desire not to belong to the internal market, my colleague pointed out the importance of continuing our cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, in defence, in sanctions policy and in judicial cooperation. The words of the British Minister of Economy were not discussed. Above all, it was important to clarify the timetable in which we want to work: first, negotiations on exit from the Union and transitional measures, and then future relations. Although we will not prevent a number of reflections on the future of our relations during the first negotiations, Mr Johnson is not directly in charge of the Brexit negotiations. It's Mr. Davis who's in charge. I have simply tried to reconfirm the message with the repeated concern to know how relations at the Irish border will now be managed. It is also a subject of debate. If free movement is not part of future relations, how will this border be managed? I have obviously not received a precise answer on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u40	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u41	Ms Jadin turned her question No 17135 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u42	Mr President, I should like to ask you about the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council of 6 March, in which you took part, and which referred in particular to the situation, which remains very worrying, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. You and your colleagues have called for the urgent implementation of the agreement of 31 December, the only way to achieve a democratic and peaceful alternation in power. This process will also have to lead to the organisation of presidential elections in the course of 2017, hopefully! The conclusions of the EU Council also point out that the situation remains very unstable and is aggravated by an economic and fiscal crisis, which severely affects the population. The security situation in some parts of the country also raises questions, as the risk of contagion is not to be excluded. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. In its conclusions, the Foreign Affairs Council calls for further action on the transparency and governance of CENI. Have you ever discussed the nature of these measures? Recently, you met, among other things, the President of the Assembly. I saw him and he told me about it. Will the European Union propose a series of measures to be taken in this context? If so, can you tell me more? With regard to the renewal of MONUSCO's mandate, the European Union calls for the Mission to be provided with the necessary resources so that it can carry out its mission and provide relevant support to the electoral process. Do you already have an idea of the financial, even human and logistical contribution that the EU could bring? What about Belgium? Finally, with regard to the preparation and conduct of the presidential elections, the EU is prepared to provide its support, including financial support, provided, of course, that all the necessary conditions are met, namely an inclusive process, free democratic and inclusive elections, respect for freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of the press. Have you mentioned, in this context, the idea of tranche financing that we have already discussed here?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I would also like to refer to the Foreign Affairs Council on 6 March, which produced some very interesting conclusions. I also refer to the agreement of 31 December 2016 which was supported by a broad political spectrum in Congo and which has still not been implemented. In addition, security in Congo is decreasing. There is regular reports of excessive violence against civilians, both in the centre and in the east of the country. This keeps on increasing. On 13 March, two experts from the UN, a Swedish and an American, disappeared. Minister, what is your analysis of the security situation in the country? The conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council were very interesting in that the Council also advocated the extension of individual sanctions, not only in respect of human rights violations, but also, for the first time, against those who hinder a peaceful electoral process. The extension of the mandate of MONUSCO will be discussed in the UN Security Council this month. The UN Secretary-General's report and the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council indicated that this mandate should be strengthened in order to support the electoral process and to better protect the population from the deteriorating security situation. You also indicated these priorities in response to my plenary question of 23 February. What support is Belgium currently providing to the MONUSCO? Do you also consider strengthening the support of the international community, both financially, logistically and in terms of manpower? Are there conditions for further support? If so, which one? The implementation of the Sylvester agreement is absent. You also said at the beginning of this year that it is important for a new Prime Minister to be appointed. That hasn't happened so far. Kabila also continues to use delaying manoeuvres by saying that there should be three candidates, which is not at all in the agreement and therefore the opposition still has no agreement on three potential candidates. What is your assessment of the Prime Minister's designation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u44	Mr Crusnière, I continue to follow the situation in the DRC very closely, in particular through numerous contacts in the majority and in the opposition. Like our main bilateral and multilateral partners, we are committed to the agreement of the Saint-Sylvestre and we are concerned about the delays in the implementation of this project. The status quo threatens the stability of the country and that of the region. Spots of violence are increasing. It is therefore important that a Prime Minister, presented by the opposition, be appointed as soon as possible to activate the necessary electoral preparations and to provide responses to pressing challenges on several fronts: security, socio-economic and other. I sent this message last week to the Speaker of the National Assembly, Aubin Minaku. In his view, it is possible to move fairly quickly towards an agreement on specific arrangements and the appointment of a prime minister of the gathering. The maintenance of the present government is, in any case, not sustainable. The Council of the European Union of 6 March examined the situation in the DRC. The conclusions present a clear message: it is a matter of activating the rapid implementation of the agreement of 31 December, the only one able to bring the necessary legitimacy to the Congolese institutions. In particular, High Representative Federica Mogherini is requested to start preparatory work to adopt new individual restrictive measures. This work is under way on the basis of changes in the overall political context. In the coming days and weeks, we will have to decide on this. In this context, the human rights situation in the country will be a decisive factor for us. The international community is deeply concerned about the deterioration of the security situation, particularly in the Kasai region, following the worrying disappearance of two members of the United Nations expert group on the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as well as their four Congolese escorts. In the face of converging reports of massive violations of human rights and humanitarian law in this region, including the disproportionate use of force, arbitrary executions and the discovery of mass graves, we plead with our European partners for an international and independent investigation. I also reminded the Speaker of the National Assembly, since the session of the Assembly would open in the following days. Our country is also very active in the dossier on the renewal of the MONUSCO mandate. My special envoy for the Great Lakes region went to New York two weeks ago to have contact with the main interlocutors. I myself will receive the SRSG Maman Sambo Sidikou on Friday. Belgium is defending a clear vision of that review. The MONUSCO should play a more prominent role in the implementation of the Agreement of 31 December, primarily in the organisation of credible elections before the end of 2017. In order to restore the credibility of the electoral process vis-à-vis the population and the international community, MONUSCO will need to strengthen its support and help secure those elections, but also better monitor and guide them. We will advocate such a direction at all levels in all international contacts. With regard to your question on the financing of the elections, Belgium continues to insist not only within the European Union, but also in the context of the drafting of the new resolution on MONUSCO, on the conditions to be laid down in order to decide on support. If the financing arrangements have not been mentioned at the Council, they are, at this stage, the subject of discussions between experts. Our country insists, as you say, on the credibility of the process and on a gradual approach if the conditions are met. It will be all the more practical to discuss it if a new government comes into office with a new Prime Minister from the Gathering. The second important issue for MONUSCO is the protection of citizens. In particular in the pre-electoral context, MONUSCO will need to be able to respond more quickly and more flexibly to the changing security situation, not just in the east, but throughout the country, with more police and civil resources. In doing so, MONUSCO will have to take into account the security of specific categories of citizens at particular risk, such as political actors, human rights defenders and journalists. With regard to the resources that our country makes available to MONUSCO in this context, I am in contact with my fellow Members responsible for the defence of the country and for development cooperation. Our country will continue the presence of two soldiers in Kinshasa and Goma. With regard to the financial contribution to operating costs, our country will pay the contribution according to the distribution key for our country. In addition, through Development Cooperation, our country also contributes EUR 1.1 million to the UNJHRO, the United Nations Human Rights Office, in Congo. In concrete terms, we call for the full implementation and implementation of the agreements of 31 December and for a contact between the majority and the opposition, whether or not through a possible necessary conciliation mandate or a specific role for CENCO, as at the end of last year. We are still waiting for a first new step in the implementation of the agreements at the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u46	Minister, as far as MONUSCO is concerned, Belgium is defending the right position. The implementation of the Agreement of 31 December 2016 remains worrying. I still belong here in the conditional sense, to re-enable CENCO. That is a necessary step. I have occasional contacts with members of the opposition. This shows that there is no real progress in the matter, because Kabila uses the division of the opposition conveniently to designate a new Prime Minister. He should not be given too much time, otherwise we will end up again in a blur and there will be no presidential elections at the end of 2017. Minister, I know that behind the scenes Belgium is exerting enormous pressure, including through you. It is necessary to have taken a first step towards a new government and the drafting of a new electoral calendar by the end of April 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u47	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, this is a subject that has already been much discussed in this committee. In December 2015, we had discussed with each other the catastrophic situation of a Belgian-Moroccan citizen currently incarcerated in Morocco. Ali Aarrass – this is his name – was sentenced several years ago for "membership of a group intending to commit terrorist attacks". Ali Aarrass was wrongly suspected of being a jihadist close to Abdelkader Belliraj. Amnesty International, a serious organization, found that the conviction was based on confessions obtained under torture. His family has given us some recent evidence. Ali Aarrass is not well. His state of health is deteriorating as a result of his transfer to a prison where he is now subjected to 23 hours a day solitary confinement for more than four months. He enjoys an hour's trip a day, but always alone. He would be malnourished and would benefit from a concrete slab as a bed. He receives a five-minute telephone call per week. However, no events occurred during his detention, which could explain the transfer of the prison and the worsening of his conditions of detention since October 2016. You have just made a speech on the occasion of the 34th session of the Human Rights Council on 28 February. You rightly said: "We must be as strict on human rights as on the budget." You know that on this, we're following you 100%. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, can you explain to me the reasons given by the Moroccan authorities for the transfer of this national to another place of detention? When did your last contact with your Moroccan counterpart date on this subject? We know we exchanged here on previous contacts, but I wish I knew when the last one was. Finally, could you give me details of the various initiatives your department has taken between December 2015 and today, in terms of consular assistance for this Belgian-Moroccan national?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u48	Madam President, Mr Hellings, I have been asked several times on this subject. The Moroccan authorities did not inform me of the reasons for the transfer of Salé 2 prison to Tiflet 2 prison. I can confirm that the Belgian State has submitted to the obligation imposed by the judgment of the Court of Appeal of 9 September 2014 to request Morocco to allow the Belgian authorities to visit Mr Ali Aarrass weekly and to speak with him at the prison where he is serving his sentence. Several notes verbales had been sent to the Moroccan authorities and several steps had been taken to that end. On 28 June 2016, the Moroccan Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed our Embassy by note verbale that a consular visit cannot be granted. This was the message I had received during the last direct contact with my Moroccan counterpart on the subject on 21 October 2015. Whenever the situation of this person has been mentioned, the response systematically concerns acts of terrorism or related to terrorism that have been reported against him. We will continue to try consular procedures, but for the moment with a refusal from the Moroccan side. Beyond that, we do not really have any other possibility of action. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are regularly asked in Parliament about the measures that have been taken to request the return to Belgium of other persons suspected of terrorist acts. I have also sent a complete dossier on a case relating to Iraq to the Committee of Inquiry in charge of the fight against terrorism. I simply pay attention to the message that is systematically given to us by the Moroccan authorities who consider this person to be effectively linked to a problem of terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u49	Mr Minister, in relation to the information you have given to the committee of inquiry, we are in two strictly different cases. It is a question of considering that, on the European Union side, terrorist incrimination is fundamentally different from terrorist incrimination on the Moroccan side. We have fundamentally different human rights standards. It is well known that Morocco uses terrorist incrimination very regularly to detain or monitor people who are opponents of the regime, which is fortunately not the case in Belgium and the European Union. There is no doubt that the national is subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment. I strongly encourage you to plead before your Moroccan counterpart that we should provide consular assistance to this Belgian national as well as to any Belgian national throughout the world and, as a result, that we should improve his conditions of detention, which, it seems and according to the information received, are particularly worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u50	Minister, on 22 February, the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP), the ambitious Clean Seas campaign, launched to tackle the problem of the polluted world seas. In particular, plastic, which is ruining an increasing proportion of the oceans, is a major focus for UNEP. In your 2017 policy paper, you promised that Belgium would make a firm commitment to achieving the objectives of Agenda 2030, better known as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). In particular, the objectives of SDG point 14, the purification and preservation of the viability of the oceans, is explicitly stated in your policy paper. The fact that Belgium was one of the ten first countries to sign the Clean Seas campaign is a logical continuation of your commitment as described in your policy paper. However, accepting such ambitious and necessary international campaign is far from sufficient to have a truly credible impact on the achievement of the campaign's objectives. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions regarding the signing of the Clean Seas campaign. How do you actively include this campaign in Belgian foreign policy? Is there a financial link to that? Has there been any consultation with other ministers' cabinets to implement the objectives of the Clean Seas campaign in their own country? If so, with which cabinets? Anything on the table yet? Are there any similarities? If not, then it is time that we had discussions now. If you are organising a consultation session on this matter, when will this take effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u51	Ms Pehlivan, the Clean Seas Campaign, launched in February by the UN Environment Programme, will focus on marine pollution from microplastics over the next five years. They are a long-term burden on rivers, seas and oceans due to their large-scale distribution and difficult degradability. Thus, this campaign contributes to achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in general and to SDG 14 on oceans in particular. It is therefore perfectly in line with my commitment to strengthening cooperation with the small island states, in particular with regard to environmental protection and oceans. I am therefore very pleased that our country has been able to join this campaign from the outset. This decision was taken in consultation with several of my fellow Members, both federal and regional, who are responsible for the implementation of the objectives of this campaign. During COR Multi on 21 February 2017, representatives of the Federal Minister for Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, Ms Marghem, Federal Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud, Privacy, and North Sea, Mr De Backer, and Flemish Minister for Environment, Nature and Agriculture, Ms Schauvliege, agreed to support this campaign. They can provide you with more information on concrete measures they will take in this context. Our own commitment is through actions such as the Healthy Oceans workshop, Resillient Islands, which we organised together with the UNESCO Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) and the FPS Environment Forum from 7 to 9 March last for representatives of Small Island Developing States (SIDS) with a view to negotiating an implementation treaty of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity in the High Seas outside national jurisdictions. We also aim to play an active role at the forthcoming UN-Ocean Conference between 5 and 9 June 2017, in which we will organise a side event, together with Tonga and World Animal Protection, focusing on the protection of marine flora and fauna in cleaning up lost or abandoned fishing nets. I've been in contact with a representative of such an NGO. That was during my visit to Sydney at the end of 2016. In the short term, we do not provide an additional financial commitment to support the campaign, as the core contribution already provides substantial financial support for the operation of the UN Environment Programme as partner organisation of Belgian Development Cooperation. We will therefore continue to do so, first and foremost at that conference in New York in early June 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u52	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I too am pleased that a number of steps have already been taken. After all, it is very important, as you have said, that there is a recent study showing that five million bottles and eight million tonnes of plastic waste end up in the sea. We must be aware of the damage caused by this. I am therefore pleased that there are a number of initiatives. However, it is also important that there is a form of cooperation, not only at the Flemish level or at the level of the local government, which are also important, but also at the federal level. You should once urge Minister Peeters' cabinet to check how much plastic is produced each year in the context of Work with plastic manufacturers. Let me give you an example. Greenpeace has been asking Coca-Cola about this for some time, but has not received an answer. How can we reduce plastic pollution if we do not even know how much plastic the largest manufacturers process annually? I hope that we will soon see how the commitment you have given will be followed up. It is also positive, not only from Belgium but also internationally, that, as you will know, Kenya, Uganda, Cameroon, Tanzania and Ethiopia have banned the use of plastic bags. So that's a good thing. We can take an example of those countries, most of them are also partner countries, and we can also take initiatives in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u53	Minister, the conflict in Ukraine has become more and more frozen since the annexation of Crimea and the shaky ceasefire. Russia is very much in control and has an important trump card in its hands. It now seems that the Russians have found a new front, namely Belarus, which has been known for years as an ally of Russia but has been looking for some openings to the West lately. This gave rise to a series of tensions with Russia, which result, inter alia, in a trade war in which Russia raises gas prices, putting pressure on Belarus' economic growth. There are also protests in Belarus against President Lukashenko. There are a number of parallels to the situation in eastern Ukraine. It is very likely that Russia is strengthening its sphere of influence in Eastern Europe. Minister, what analysis do you make of the situation in Belarus? What is our position and that of the EU on the evolution of tensions between Russia and Belarus? How can we possibly intercede between the two countries in order to remove the situation? What role does our permanent OSCE representation play in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u54	Mrs Bellens, first of all, President Lukashenko is working on his fifth mandate and remains firmly in control. The possible economic situation and the role of Russia in the Ukraine conflict have led Belarus to move closer to the EU. The release of political prisoners in 2015 has enabled the lifting of most EU sanctions. The EU conducts a critical dialogue with Minsk in the framework of the Eastern Partnership, which places a strong emphasis on democracy and human rights. In any case, the country remains heavily dependent on Russia, which remains the main economic and political partner. As has recently been demonstrated by the reactions to demonstrations against Decree 3, which penalised the unemployed financially, the area for freedom of expression and assembly in Belarus remains limited. Secondly, my meeting with President Lukashenko and my homologist Minister Makei gave me the opportunity to address the human rights situation in addition to bilateral and regional issues and, in particular, to call for the abolition of the death penalty. I also stressed the importance that we attach to democracy and the rule of law as conditions for further rapprochement with the European Union. I also met several Belarusian NGOs, which allowed me to give a realistic picture of the human rights situation. I've asked several representatives of the NGOs to identify more individual cases. This was done in the presence of the representatives of the European Union on the ground. Thirdly, the relationship between Russia and Belarus is one of common interest. Both countries remain close allies who, however, experience regular crises. These can partly be traced back to economic disputes regarding the price of the gas supplied by Russia or agreements on market access, but also to the Belarusian desire to bring the EU and the West closer to Minsk's nuanced vision of the Ukrainian issue. Fourthly, the tensions between Belarus and Russia that we are currently experiencing must be closely monitored. However, by analogy with the situation in Ukraine, this seems premature to me and the risk of conflict remains low. I reiterated in Minsk to my interlocutors that dialogue is important and that it takes place at all levels, both at bilateral level with Belgium and with the EU and/or through international organisations such as the OSCE. I would also like to say that I have had a very good contact with all the partners. It is true, however, that there is a fear of evolution as in Ukraine. I will not repeat the various speeches made by my interlocutors, but I have heard very well that there is such a fear, that there would be a similar evolution. Fifthly, I have always repeated that it remains very important for us to send a clear message to Moscow. It must be possible to have a correct and clear relationship between Russia and Belarus, but also between Belarus and the European Union. You know that this is not the only case where it is very difficult to reach such conviction. In some cases, we feel that Moscow is in favour or against Russia. It is our role to evolve more and more into such a plea. It must be possible for Belarus to maintain proper relations, not only with Russia, but also with the European Union. To date, we have stated that Belarus has first and foremost contacts and a partnership with Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u55	Minister, it seems a little like Russia is really using the tactics of asymmetric warfare and deliberately setting fires on the east side to expand the sphere of influence. We must respond to this with the EU in order to avoid a lot of frozen conflicts that will never be resolved, but which will always be at the forefront of politics and security in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u56	Mr President, Minister, a number of important mandates are currently vacant in the OSCE or will become vacant in the near future. These are the mandates of the Secretary-General of the OSCE, the High Commissioner on National Minorities, the Representative on Freedom of the Media and the Director of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights. These four posts are key positions for the policy of the OSCE and candidates must therefore be selected carefully. Of course, this type of mandate also has a political edge. A number of balances must be maintained and each OSCE Member State must be able to agree to the final choice. The choice will determine the direction of the OSCE in the future. I have the following questions. When should the various mandates to be released or released be completed? How does this selection procedure work? Will the implementation take place separately or is there a link as a package? How will our country and the EU be involved in the selection process? Does our country have a preference for a particular profile? Does our country propose any candidates? Why is that? Why is that? What applications are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, there are indeed four important functions within the OSCE that are either vacant or will become vacant in the near future. The mandate of the current Secretary-General, Ambassador Lamberto Zannier, shall expire on 30 June 2017. The mandate of the Director of the ODIHR, Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, Mr Michael Link, shall also expire on 30 June 2017. The mandate of the Media Representative for Freedom, Ms Dunja Mijatovic, expired on 10 March 2017. The mandate of the High Commissioner for National Minorities, Ms Astrid Thors, expired on 19 August 2016. The selection procedure shall run separately for each mandate. This procedure always follows a similar schedule: nomination period, hearing with the candidates of the participating States, if necessary with several rounds, and finally consultation of the serving Presidency (chairman in office) this time led by the representative of Mr Sebastian Kurz, my Austrian fellow Minister for Foreign Affairs, with the delegations for finding a consensus and a consensual candidate. Our country is fully involved in the hearings, where each delegation has the opportunity to ask questions in a separate contact with the candidate; in the EU context, where some of the candidates come forward with additional proposals; and in the consultations afterwards. According to the rule of consensus, all 57 Member States must agree to the nomination. For us, it is particularly important to appoint strong candidates, given the challenges currently facing the OSCE as an organisation and the entire OSCE region. This obviously applies to the crucial role of Secretary-General, but certainly also to the heads of the institutions whose independence is questioned by certain Member States. In addition, it is of course also necessary to consider the experience and expertise required for each function. Our country has not nominated candidates for the four positions. Since the selection procedures are still in progress and the Belgian position for some functions is still under way, I cannot give you any concrete information at this stage on the applications we will be supporting. I have only been in contact with a few colleagues who have a candidate, including Minsk, Belarus and Switzerland. I have always said that it might be a good thing to first designate the Secretary-General and then, in consultation with him, arrange for the appointment of the other posts. It would be very useful to do so as soon as possible. It may be my Austrian colleague's job to do so. A first phase, with the appointment of the Secretary-General, and then, in cooperation with him, the appointment of the other posts as soon as possible. We follow the procedure. I do not yet have a position on Belgium's possible support for some candidate. At the end of the procedure we will have a shortlist and perhaps it will be possible to say a little more about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Indeed, as you say, it is not obvious to reach a consensus with 57 states for a post appointment. This is clear from the function of the High Commissioner on National Minorities, which has been vacant since August 2016. Apparently, no progress has been made there. Nevertheless, I think it is important that these mandates should be filled in, especially in this geopolitical situation with the current unrest. It is the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. It'd be nice if we could do that there. There are still some challenges ahead for the OSCE within the wider Euro-Atlantic region. I remain convinced that the role of the OSCE as a consultative platform is important there. It is also the only place where Russia directly dialogues with the other countries. In most places they are on the other side. So I hope it works. Perhaps it is indeed an opportunity to first appoint the Secretary-General and then make the opening to go further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u59	Mr President, Minister, a well-documented article recently published by La Libre Belgique under the title "The return of high tension in the Balkans" evokes a redistribution of borders between states, countries and populations in this region of the European continent. As you know, the Dayton Accords of 1995 endorsed the existence of a State, namely Bosnia and Herzegovina, composed of two distinct ethnic entities: the Croatian-Muslim Federation and the Serbian Republic of Bosnia. However, nationalist ambitions have awakened to the point of creating new questions about possible redistribution. The option of maintaining multi-ethnic states to ensure the well-being of the population seems to need to be reconsidered, given what some call the failure of the integration of the Serbian minority. In addition, there is uncertainty about the policy of the Trump administration, not to mention that Serbian nationalists are hoping for a rapprochement with Russia. The controversy surrounding the request for a review of the 2007 judgment of the International Court of Justice depriving Belgrade of its responsibility for crimes committed during the war may also not remain without consequences. The same applies to the debate on the possible accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to NATO. Mr Minister, what is the Belgian Government's reading of this situation, of this renewed tension and of the possible consequences? How does the European Union fear the risk of a confrontational spiral, especially since the problem of turnover is added to that? Indeed, it is not just Belgium that is facing it. Returns are also present throughout this area of the Balkans, which gives rise to a great deal of concern. Moreover, there is a risk of a new front with Russia. As far as the European Union is concerned, it seems that Britain should preside over the forthcoming Balkan summit. Given the Brexit, it seems somewhat inappropriate. What is your view in this regard? Finally, have there been any attempts to implement and support the implementation, in particular in Europe, of a federal system, in the sense that we mean it in a country like ours in Bosnia and Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u60	Mr Miller, the Western Balkans is an important issue in our foreign policy and in the enlargement policy of the European Union. The recent developments to which you refer remind us that the stability of this region is not achieved. The prospect of these countries joining the European Union is the driving force behind the reforms and a stabilizing factor in the region. However, this is a medium to long-term objective. Continued engagement by the European Union is therefore necessary, not just in times of crisis. In this regard, I would like to commend the efforts of the High Representative and Vice-President of the Commission, Mrs Mogherini, who toured the region and opened a very enlightening discussion at the Foreign Affairs Council on 6 March. In this debate, I encouraged her to continue her efforts in the region, especially in the geopolitical context you are referring to. Let me focus on the particularly worrying situation in some of these countries. The normalisation of relations between Serbia and Kosovo is inseparable from the prospects for these two countries' accession to the European Union. Reconciliation efforts must continue. Nationalist overbidding and unilateral polemic initiatives on both sides must stop. As far as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is concerned, the country seems to be sinking into a worrying political crisis where the acute polarisation between the majority and the opposition, the lack of formation of a new government resulting from the elections of December 2016, the risk of inter-ethnic tensions diverts the country from the need to implement important reforms. As far as Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, we also see that nationalist positions prevail over the reform agenda and the objective of integration into the European Union. The continuing rhetoric about the holding of a referendum in the Republica Srpsca does not, according to our analysis, announce a future secession of the Serbian entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but rather reveals the entity's attempts to weigh the balance of power between the entities and the central State in order to strengthen its competences. It is certainly a dangerous game that must be discouraged. The European Union has sent clear messages in this regard. The structure of this country is particularly complex and requires the establishment of a coordination mechanism between the central state and the entities so that the country can speak with one voice in European matters and determine common positions. Belgium is contributing by organising a seminar in Sarajevo and Banja Luka on 5 and 6 April on our internal coordination mechanism between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions. We can share an expertise that has been enriched in recent months. You refer to the awakening of nationalist ambitions, which would give rise to new questions about the redistribution of borders. From my point of view and from the point of view of the European Union, this is not an option. While these countries have been given a prospect of integration into the European Union, it is not the nationalist agenda that must be encouraged neither the old Balkan demons that must be awakened, but the internal reforms for more socio-economic development, more democracy, more citizenship and more rule of law. We will have to return regularly to the situation in the Balkans at meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union, because, as you say, stability is not guaranteed. Moreover, it is necessary to be able to be present, not only in times of tension and crisis, but on a permanent basis in order to force internal reforms which will allow in the medium and long term to debate further accessions to the European Union, as has already been the case for several countries in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u61	Colleague Miller, would you like to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u62	Mr. Chairman, that won't really be a reply. Rather, it will be a thank you to the Minister for his responses and for his attention to a worrying situation. History has shown that this area is particularly dangerous for European stability. The Minister's answers fully satisfy me and remind me of the vigilance that is required. I was completely unaware of the organisation of the meeting on 5 and 6 April, during which our country will be able to highlight its expertise and experience of a federalism that has developed peacefully. I would also like to thank you, Minister, for being very proactive in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u63	Questions Nos 17227, 17232 and 17233 by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u64	Minister, Montenegro has recently been under the spell of a conflict in the Montenegrin Parliament. These are allegations of electoral fraud by the main opposition group, the Democratic Front, against the majority. In the meantime, 39 MEPs boycotted the work of the Montenegrin Parliament. This may jeopardise Montenegro's expected accession to NATO in May this year. A few weeks ago I referred to it in another question. There is the incident of 20 Serbs and Russians who apparently intended to take action to destabilise Montenegro. These persons were prevented from entering Montenegro by Serbia at the border. According to some sources, these activists were supported by Russia, which, of course, rejects these accusations. The EU has requested that the investigation into this alleged coup attempt be conducted as soon as possible in order to clarify the situation. What is the assessment of the situation by the competent diplomatic post? What is the position of the government and the European Union on the current situation in Montenegro? In what way do we or possibly assist the EU in investigating the alleged coup attempt and the allegations of electoral fraud? How can we possibly support the OSCE? What is the connection between the situation in Montenegro and the tensions in the wider region, to which Mr Miller just referred? Do you have any idea of the state of play regarding Montenegro's accession to NATO? Will the expectation of ratification be maintained for May 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u65	Mrs Bellens, the opposition parties are currently boycotting the work of the Montenegrin Parliament. They justify that decision by referring to the accusation of fraud in the parliamentary elections in October 2016, as well as the opposition manipulation by the government of the coup attempt you mentioned. This situation has also led to a boycott by the opposition to local elections in the second city of the country. The European Union and Belgium advocate a dialogue between the two parties and encourage the opposition to return to Parliament and defend its position there. The boycott does not help resolve the situation. The EU has also called on the Montenegrin authorities to shed light on the irregularities during the elections and to communicate transparently about the investigation into the coup attempt. Belgium is not helping in that investigation. The investigation is in the hands of a special prosecutor in Montenegro. With regard to electoral fraud, the OSCE Monitoring Mission noted that some irregularities have occurred, but that they do not call into question the validity of the elections. The OSCE has also made recommendations and will help to implement them. With regard to Belgium's assistance to the OSCE, I would refer you to my answer to the question on the Western Balkans. As regards the relationship between the internal situation and regional tensions, I believe that the tense political situation is primarily explained by the internal political context in Montenegro, although these tensions are sometimes reinforced by actors from outside the region. Montenegro will become a member of NATO once all its allies have ratified the protocol of accession of Montenegro, which is not the case today. I sincerely hope that accession can take place before the special NATO meeting in Brussels in May. If this is not the case, the Montenegrin representatives will be present in Brussels anyway. Moreover, they are already attending all NATO meetings as observers and are closely involved in the internal consultation of the allies. This was also the case for Montenegro at the previous meeting. It is true that there are difficult discussions between the various parties in Montenegro, but there is also a certain external influence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u66	Thank you, Minister. Your answer confirms what I thought. Within Montenegro there will be some tensions, but the influence of a number of externals is not to be underestimated, I believe. It remains extremely important that Belgium and the EU make every effort to maintain dialogue and to reduce tensions on our continent. Europe's eastern flank is currently under severe pressure from internal tensions in those countries. That's always a risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u67	Mr President, Minister, Macedonia has been in a precarious situation since the elections of 11 December 2016 called for by the EU. The ruling party VMRO DPMNE was defeated, but Macedonian President Ivanov refuses to recognise a coalition of the largest opposition group with some Albanian parties, fearing that such a coalition will violate the Constitution and threaten the territorial integrity of Macedonia. Specifically, from a conservative point of view, there is concern that opposition leader Zaev has admitted the recognition of the Albanian language and the rights of the Albanian minority in Macedonia. That's what's causing the tension to rise. Minister, how do you estimate the situation in Macedonia? What is the assessment of the competent diplomatic post? What is the government and the EU's position on the situation in Macedonia? How do we mediate both our country and the EU there? Are we and the EU supporting the OSCE mission in Skopje? How does our country, the EU and the OSCE assess the role of Albania and Serbia in the current tensions in Macedonia? What is the connection between the situation in Macedonia and the tensions in the wider region, in the Western Balkans?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u68	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, I share your analysis of the precarious situation in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM). After the party of former Prime Minister Gruevski had emerged from the parliamentary elections in December 2016, President Ivanov gave Mr Gruevski a mandate to form a government. After Mr Gruevski failed in his mission, President Ivanov refused to entrust the same mandate to Mr Zaev, the main opposition leader, despite the fact that he could count on the support of a majority of MEPs. As a motive for this refusal, the President called for Mr Zaev to make concessions to the elected Albanian parties in exchange for support, whose demands he considered to be a danger to the sovereignty and unity of the country. The European Union, and Belgium in particular, believe that these arguments are unfounded and that democratic rules must be respected. This means that the opposition must now also be given a chance to form a government. I also note that even if Mr Zaev succeeds in forming a government, he will not have enough support to amend the Constitution. This also undermines the argument that the unity of the country would be at risk because a change in the state structure can only be achieved by a constitutional change. We know that in Belgium. In the framework of the government-opposition agreement, the European Union supported a mediator, our fellow countryman Mr Vanhout, until March 2016. Since then, the EU remains very involved, with frequent visits by the high EU representatives, such as Enlargement Commissioner Hahn and, very recently, High Representative Mogherini. With regard to Belgium's assistance to the OSCE, I would refer to my answer to your question on the Western Balkans, and I will say more in that regard. I have no reason to believe that Serbia or Albania would have an influence in the context of internal tensions in FYROM. The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is in a region full of challenges. However, the problems in this country are due to very specific internal circumstances. External influence is always possible, but there are a lot of tensions between the different parties in this respect. The internal situation is therefore already very complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u69	Minister, the situation in Macedonia has not changed much. At the moment the opposition is also starting to organize itself along an ethnic line. We all know that history has taught us this with regard to Yugoslavia, which can be the result if tensions begin to emerge on that line. We know where that could lead. I am indeed, like you, a great supporter of respect for democratic rules and calling on the political leaders to insist on a solution, a solution for all the population groups on the ground to get out of the impasse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u70	Minister, Nagorno-Karabakh is one of the frozen conflicts I have just mentioned. Since the armistice of 1994, the region has been regularly alarmed by flares of violence. The OSCE, in particular the Minsk Group, is the mediator in the conflict and controls compliance with the ceasefire. Recent skirmishes have resulted in five deaths on Azerbaijani side. NATO, the Minsk Group and the EU have already condemned the violation of the ceasefire and stressed the need to respect the Minsk agreements. Escalation is not a solution. The co-chair of the Minsk Group for the US, Richard Hoagland, travelled to Azerbaijan on the weekend of 10 March to discuss the situation with the President. Minister, what are the latest developments in the situation in Nagorno-Karabakh? What evaluation of the responsibility for the most recent events are the observers on the ground? What is the government's and EU's position on the situation? What role can our country and the EU play in mediation in the conflict? What impact does the latest meeting between Azerbaijan and Armenia-supported troops in Nagorno-Karabakh have on the impact of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the EU and Armenia announced on 27 February 2017? What assessment do we make of the opportunity to exclude Armenia and/or Azerbaijan from Russia's sphere of influence through mediation in that frozen conflict? What role can the OSCE play in the mediation of the conflict? How much is our country's contribution to the financing of the Minsk Group? What are the contacts between Russia and the Eurasian Economic Union, to which Armenia belongs and the EU and the OSCE, with a view to mediation in the conflict and other frozen conflicts in Europe? What are the main achievements of these contacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u71	Mr Minister, the frozen conflict that has not been resolved has been thawed again: violence has flared up again. At that time, the Minsk Group proposed the investigation mechanism, the confidence-building mechanism by which the cause of the cease-fire was identified. Azerbaijan in particular does not seem to want to accept this. I would have liked to ask you a few questions about that later. I also refer to the two events to which Mr Bellens referred, recently, on 27 February, the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Armenia, which seeks a peaceful solution to the conflict, and on 10 March, the visit of the US Vice-President of the Minsk group Richard Hoagland to Azerbaijan to discuss the situation. How do you estimate the current situation? What are the latest developments? What is the Belgian position regarding the repeated rejection of the investigation mechanism, the confidence-building mechanism? Do you have any information on the meeting between Richard Hoagland and the authorities of Azerbaijan? What initiatives will the Minsk Group further develop with the relevant actors? What other possibilities do you see for yourself? Have you had any recent contacts with colleagues in office, including from Russia or Turkey? What have they reported on the conflict? Finally, threats are sometimes imported into Belgium. In November 2016, there was a tourist performance of Nagorno-Karabakh in Tour & Taxis. Several MEPs were invited to this, but they were asked by the Azerbaijani Embassy not to participate. Do you think that's acceptable? What's your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u72	Since the four-day war in April 2016, tensions along the contact line remain worryingly high. In recent weeks large-scale armed confrontations have taken place between the two sides. Each party accuses the other of the violations of the cease-fire. The observers on the ground continue to call for calm, immediate cessation of hostilities and constructive cooperation towards a peaceful solution. Belgium fully supports the efforts of the co-chairs of the Minsk Group, France, Russia and the US, as well as their call, repeated after the meetings in the margins of the Munich Security Conference to restart comprehensive negotiations in order to find a sustainable solution. The three co-chairs visited Baku on 11 March and intend to travel to Jerevan shortly. The context is currently sensitive to the parties concerned. There is controversy about the implementation of the conclusions of the Vienna and Saint Petersburg summits, the increasing armed confrontations and the recent unrecognised constitutional referendum in Nagorno-Karabakh. Russia, as co-chair, is particularly active in the dossier with recent separate meetings with the Azerbaijani and Armenian high-level representatives in Moscow. There are no such contacts between the Eurasian Economic Union, OSCE and EU on Nagorno-Karabakh. Belgium contributes 3.42% to the budget of the Minsk process in 2017. The resumption of hostilities makes it clear to the European Union and to Belgium that there is an urgent need to re-negotiate a peace settlement, to avoid an outbreak of violence with possible regional consequences and to put an end to the suffering of the local population. The European Union and Belgium do not play a direct role in the mediation efforts, but fully support the actions of the Minsk Group, in particular through Mr Herbert Salber, the EU Special Representative for South Caucasus. The agreement between the EU and Armenia announced on 27 February 2017 does not directly address the situation in and around Nagorno-Karabakh and recent developments along the contact line. The in-depth bilateral relations between the EU and Armenia and Azerbaijan will give the EU the opportunity to continue to press for a peaceful agreement under the supervision of the Minks Group. Moreover, with regard to the promotional events organised in Belgium around Nagorno-Karabakh, which were not recognised by Belgium and the international community, including Armenia, my services to both the Armenians and the Azeri people have clearly explained that, firstly, Belgium is a rule of law guaranteeing freedom of expression; secondly, Belgium does not recognise the self-explained entity Nagorno-Karabakh; and thirdly, Belgium calls on all parties to show restraint and not to import the conflict into its territory. For the rest, I repeat that we are trying to get those involved to the negotiating table, but that was already the case during the previous Belgian OSCE Presidency in 2006. We continue to make efforts to get out of the frozen conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is clear that the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict continues to haunt relations between the two countries. At every OSCE meeting, I am a little enthusiastic about how they almost fly into each other's hair. I realise that the negotiations are not clear, but we must continue to engage in dialogue and take place around the table, otherwise we will never succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u74	I don't have much to add to that. There is little progress, on the contrary, there is a deterioration in the suffering of the population and in the face of violence. Maybe the crisis needs to escalate again to get resolved. It is happening close to the European Union. It is not good that such a conflict exists in a country close to the border of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u75	Minister, Mrs Mogherini, the EU's High Representative for Foreign Policy, made the Balkans round at the beginning of March. It visited several countries in the region and presented its findings of the visit to the EU Council of Ministers on 6 March. As has been said before, different ethnic tensions remain in the region, affecting the dialogue between the EU and the Western Balkans. Among other things, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Länder remain in disaffection, as was recently demonstrated by the conflict between Bosnian President Izetbegović and President Dodik of the Republic of Srpska on the reopening of the genocide case in connection with the Bosnian war. The Macedonian President, Mr Ivanov, also refused to accept the majority, the problem we raised with the previous question. What was Mrs Mogherini's position on behalf of the EU on the problems in the region? Was that position expressed in advance in the EU Council of Ministers? What position has our country taken during the preparatory Council of Ministers on this matter? How do our country, the EU and the OSCE work together on mediation in the tensions in the region? Does Belgium support the OSCE mission on the ground? Under what conditions are our country and the EU prepared to provide additional support to the OSCE mission in the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u76	Mrs Bellens, the High Representative took the initiative to visit all the countries of the region, with the conviction that I share with all the EU partners that the Western Balkans are of great importance for peace and stability in Europe. There are increasing tensions today. Following her visit, Mrs Mogherini made a debriefing and discussion with the Member States at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council on 6 March. In particular, Mrs Mogherini gave the region a encouraging message. In 2016, clear progress was made on European integration in the context of the accession negotiations with Serbia and Montenegro. By starting the reforms of justice, which are crucial for Albania's EU candidacy, and by growing consensus, Bosnia and Herzegovina entered the European agenda, leading to the submission of an EU candidacy in spring 2016, a candidacy of which the European Commission is currently carrying out a preliminary technical analysis. At the same time, in early 2017, we saw a worrying increase in interethnic and regional tensions, which has put pressure on the federal structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina on several occasions. There have also been a number of worrying incidents in relations between Kosovo and Serbia, and the continuing political crisis in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is now threatening to lead to tensions between the Slavic and Albanian populations. Socio-economic challenges also persist. The High Representative plays an important intermediary role in this. However, it is also important that the EU remains visible beyond these moments of crisis, especially if countries such as Russia and Turkey remain visible. In the context of the discussion within the Foreign Affairs Council, and also at the subsequent European Council, it was confirmed that the prospect of EU accession remains the best guarantee of peace and stability that the EU can offer. At the same time, we must admit that it is not a short-term perspective. Lessons from the recent wave of enlargement teach us that successful EU integration can only be based on strict compliance with all criteria and requires deep and difficult reforms. A visible and concrete commitment by the EU in the region remains necessary in the meantime. Such high-level political contacts certainly contribute to this. The EU and the OSCE play a complementary role in this region. The OSCE is also closely monitoring the current situation in the western Balkan countries. The fact that the OSCE has field missions in most of these countries is, of course, of great added value. For example, on 9 March, OSCE Secretary-General Zannier offered assistance to the OSCE on the institution and field mission in Skopje in the area of the rule of law, elections, democratic governance and police reforms. In that case, we must also mention NATO, as a security organisation. Her forces in Kosovo are a crucial security player in the country, alongside the Kosovar police and the EULEX mission. It is always very important to have good cooperation between the various international organisations in this respect. The European Union provides important financial support through the pre-accession funds. The IPA 2 programme, which runs from 2014 to 2020, provides around €7 billion of support for the Western Balkans region as a whole. The instrument aims to support fundamental political and socio-economic reforms, to increase the capacity of these countries to meet the obligations of future EU membership, and to develop regional integration and territorial cooperation by modernising infrastructure and strengthening the rule of law and democratic institutions. Within the IPA programme, the EU is certainly looking for synergies with the OSCE, another possible cooperation between the two institutions. For example, the OSCE carries out various projects financed from this EU budget, through indirect management, within its own areas, such as democracy and human rights. OSCE missions in the Western Balkans are already among the largest field missions within the OSCE. In the current budgetary context, there is little breathing space within the OSCE for a consensus with 57 countries on additional funding for these missions. Our country contributes to the regular OSCE budget, which finances the field missions in the Western Balkans. No additional budgetary contributions are currently envisaged in the context of current budgetary discipline. However, funding will continue from the European Union. Once again, it is very important to remain in the region. We have seen a lot of tensions in recent weeks and months, not in one country, but in many different countries in the Western Balkans.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u77	Minister, Mrs Mogherini's journey has been an important signal that Europe is and remains committed to the region, which is also very important for the public to know. In particular, it is not desirable for ethnic tensions to become violent. Of course, the necessary financial resources must be allocated to this. At the same time, it is important that we continue to emphasise values and standards such as democracy, respect for the rule of law and freedom of association and enterprise. I hope that we will continue to work on this. Thank you, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u78	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Grovonius' 172292 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 17321, No. 17322 and No. 17323 by Mr Luykx are postponed to his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u79	Mr President, Minister, as a member of the quartet, the United Nations, the European Union and Russia are leading the evolution of the peace process between Israel and Palestine. A key element of this peace process is the search for a two-state solution. During a visit by President Trump, he announced that he would no longer strive for such a two-state solution, but leave the final solution to what Palestine and Israel consider best. This is a worrying message, which puts aside decades of diplomatic steps to find a solution between Israel and Palestine. So, Minister, I have the following questions. What is the position of the United States on the Israeli-Palestinian peace process? What is your analysis of this position? How do you see this evolving?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u80	Mr President, Mr Van Peteghem, until further notice, the United States is maintaining the two-state solution. President Trump met Prime Minister Netanyahu and also spoke with President Abbas. The US Special Envoy for International Negotiations, Jason Greenblatt, was in that region for the first time last week for a discussion with Israel and the Palestinian Authority. He met, among other things, Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu and the President of the Palestinian Authority, Mr Abbas. The entire international community has the same ultimate goal: the two-state solution and thus the creation of an independent, sovereign, democratic and viable Palestinian state, which it lives side by side and in peace and security with Israel. Only a negotiated two-state solution will guarantee lasting peace and security for Israelis and Palestinians. The main objective, the compass and the centre of gravity of our politics, is and will remain the two-state solution. This approach is the guiding principle for our policy in the VPMO. Belgium is actively involved in its concrete implementation. The EU has also placed the VPMO on the political agenda. The Foreign Affairs Council regularly discusses this issue. It was on the agenda in January and February 2017. The Council continues to monitor the situation closely. So, in close cooperation with our European and other partners, we will continue to look at how we can achieve this objective in the new circumstances. We also reiterated our position during our bilateral talks with Vice-President Mike Pence during his visit to Belgium for bilateral contact and contact with the European Union. We will therefore also call for a two-state solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u81	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Indeed, the European Union has an important leverage to seek a peaceful and lasting solution. In doing so, we are indeed seeking a two-state solution. I am pleased that you confirm that position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u82	Mr. Secretary, I'm glad I stayed put. I just managed to ask my question. US President Donald Trump has proposed a huge budget change for the budget for diplomacy and USAID. The US spends $10 billion a year on the UN. This represents 22% of the overall budget and 28% of the Peacekeeping budget. This makes the US once again the largest donor of the UN. President Trump would like to cut as much as 28% by a 25% ceiling of all funds for UN peacekeeping operations. This is very alarming. The cuts would be a firm line for international peacekeeping operations, vaccination programmes, monitoring of illegal nuclear weapons programmes and peace talks. Trump's plans bump into criticism from both Democrats and Republicans. The question is therefore to what extent the savings action will succeed. UN Ambassador Nikki Haley has already stated that she does not believe in the slash-and-burn savings, but argues that the US is making a rather disproportionate contribution compared to other countries. On the other hand, the British ambassador to the UN says that the US already has a good deal for the financing of the UN. Minister, what analysis does your department make of the measures announced? Do you think President Trump will get this through Congress? If so, what could be the consequences for the UN? Do you see any possibilities to compensate for this? Mr Guterres has previously announced a reform of the UN. Is a new financing key also possible? Small countries such as Belgium benefit from a strong multilateral framework. If these savings were to come through, do you see any consequences for our country and for multilateral organisations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u83	Mrs Capoen, it is not the first time that an American administration has been critical of the disproportionately high contribution made by the United States to the UN budget, an organisation whose stances are not always in line with Washington's positions. However, it is not for me to speculate about the internal budgetary processes of another country, in this case the United States. Having said that, the following can be said more generally. The President shall submit a draft budget, which shall then be discussed by Congress in order to submit a budget in September. It's impossible to predict what the end result of the Congressional meeting will be. That is why I do not want to go into speculation about the possible consequences for the UN and about alternative funding. The current key for the mandatory contribution to the regular UN budget was adopted after long negotiations in December 2015. A number of countries, including China with just under 8%, Russia with just over 3% and Brazil with 3.8 %, saw their share increase while the US share was maintained to 22%. The next opportunity to renegotiate this key will only occur in 2018. In the meantime, it is clear to every UN Secretary-General that strict budget management based on agreed priorities, careful monitoring and transparency is not an option but an obligation. The Belgian preference for a strong multilateral international framework is not a free-conduct for budget derailments or proliferation of mandates. Each international organisation, including the UN, must concentrate on the central tasks and carry them out as efficiently as possible on the basis of the agreed tasks. Belgium traditionally contributes to the basic financing of international organisations, starting from a high level of confidence in the capacities of multilateral diplomacy, in order to fulfil the basic mission correctly. The best contribution our country can make to the multilateral system is to ensure that every country retains that trust. This will require renewed efforts to explain why a multilateral approach is more efficient. At the same time, we must contribute more actively, both at national and EU level, to finding multilateral solutions and thus prove that our approach is the right one. As for other points, we reiterated that to Vice-President Mike Pence during his bilateral visit to Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic626x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, we have to wait and see about the US's internal budgets and President Trump's actions, but perhaps it would be okay to provide some alternative scenarios anyway if there are effective substantial savings or if there are any changes in the key after 2018. We look forward to the future and we see what will happen.
