ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u1	Madam Minister, I have already asked several questions about this and in my last question, which dates from January 2017, you put your finger on the wound. In your opinion, a BAHA hearing aid should, according to a European directive, be included in the class II medical devices, thus falling within Article 31 of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind and not under the rules governing implants. A revision of this directive has already been approved, thanks to you through the Council of Ministers and through the European Parliament. Did you argue that the new regulation would allow BAHA to be placed under the rules for implants? Did this plea lead to results? Will the new regulation effectively allow BAHA to be placed under the rules for implants? This could at least be a solution. As long as this is not the case, BAHA shall be covered by the rules laid down in Article 31 of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind. Such a device costs 6 000 euros per ear and the refund is limited to about 1 100 euros for a child. As a result, the patient must often pay the parents of a deaf child for the unpaid costs of up to EUR 5 000 per ear. Why not simply increase the fee or additional allowance for the apparatus itself until the BAHA is covered by Article 31 of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind? Clear agreements should be made on supplements, as you did successfully for the warm chest. It is not possible for a higher fee to be awarded, while at the same time high supplements are charged. For the warm chest, a very balanced and well-balanced agreement has been reached, with patients reaping the benefits today. Can we do this for a BAHA? The decision to repay remains the competence of the Member States. This has nothing to do with the European directive. You also referred to the powers of the Audiiciens Insurance Institutions Committee. Have you asked them whether they would like to see whether they could be placed within the existing budgets?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u2	Mrs Van Camp, the revision of the directive does not affect the classification of a hearing aid with leg guidance as a medical device of class IIa. Such aids shall remain within the scope of Article 31 of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind. The Audience Insurance Institutions Agreement Committee can incorporate this as an adjustment in the sector's annual budgetary framework. For that, she should consider that as a priority. Those possible priority adjustments should also take into account the general budgetary framework. Other things will have to be compensated. That decision must also be settled by the Insurance Committee and the General Council. That's for the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u3	You will certainly pass that on to those involved. Hopefully, they want to set that as a priority. I understand from these and previous answers that you also consider that important, and you will also include this in the discussions of the Committee on Agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u4	Madam President, Minister, Stromectol, available in packs of four tablets, has been an approved medicine in France since December 19, 1999. It is a pest, an insecticide that must be taken often after stays in tropical countries. The problem is that this medicine is not approved in Belgium, it seems because of the narrow market which causes the laboratory which produces it, MSD, a subsidiary of Merck, to demand too high prices. Therefore, Belgian hospitals - I have the example of St. Peter's Hospital - must resolve to import it from France. But, as a result, no reimbursement is provided for the patient and the price is high. This is all the more problematic since taking the tablets (five at a time) often needs to be renewed to "kill", if I dare say, temporarily evil. Could you then, Madam Minister, tell us if you are aware of this problem with Stromectol. Could we not imagine working, as you have already done, in connection with other smaller markets than large countries, such as the Netherlands, Austria, Portugal and so that this medicine can be imported into us at a reasonable price? I would also point out that the firm also has a subsidiary in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u5	Madam Secretary, in response to an action by Medicine for the People, where buses were put in to Hulst to store cheaper medicines, you said in the press: "If only one medicine is refunded, the chances of stock breaches occurring with tenders, such as in the Netherlands, are enormous. Patients will no longer be able to rely on their trusted medicines. However, it is not the case that only one brand of a particular medicine is refunded in the Netherlands. For the same medicinal product, there are several firms that lower their prices to within 5% of the cheapest brand, which allows for the switch from one brand to another in the event of a breach of stock. For example, according to the website of the Dutch pharmacists' association, where stockbreaks of medicines are reported, there are 849 deficits in the Netherlands today, but only 40 of them fall under the preferential policy, say, the medicines to the kiwi model................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, in the Netherlands, the generic name of the product is printed in large quantities on the packaging, and the brand name, such as Sandoz or Apotex, is printed in small quantities. Then there is no confusion in the patient when the same medicine is switched to another brand. In Belgium, CM has developed a refined form of the kiwi model, which they call the lock model. It is inspired by experience in Germany, where non-profit funds also apply a form of the kiwi model, also with huge price reductions and guarantees for continuity of deliveries. Several firms placing the same medicinal product on the market may adjust their prices to the reference price level, plus a limited margin. They will therefore be repaid. For example, there is no monopoly for those who win the public tender. That's a good way to fight stock breaches. The Dutch model is not yet the ideal form of the kiwi model. Public procurement is organised by private health insurers or by a cluster of health insurers. Pharmaceutical companies can therefore play the health insurance companies against each other and deliberately involve drug deliveries in order to provoke stock breaches. That is not possible in our proposal. We call for a public tender for the whole of Belgium. The negotiating power of the government is much stronger and guarantees of continuity of supply can also be included in the contract. So we also support the refined sluice-gate model of the CM. Until recently, there was a long-term stock break for the Pneumovax 23 vaccine in Belgium. That's a vaccine for patients with an increased risk of pneumococcal infections against pneumococcal microbe. It is completely unclear why producer MSD no longer supplies. The vaccine costs 32 euros and none of it is refunded. However, the vaccine is recommended by the High Health Council for certain patients at high risk. This is one of the few vaccines to which the kiwi model, for example in the form of price-volume agreements, has not exactly been applied. On the website of the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products we can see that there are 317 medicines with a supply problem, which makes them temporarily unavailable. Today there are often ten to fifteen products of the same brand in Belgium. It happens daily that there are products with stock problems. I come to my questions, Madam Secretary. What solution do you see for possible stock problems in Belgium? How do you view the sophisticated sluice-gate model proposed by CM to organise public procurement for medicines? How do you explain that there was a stock breach of Pneumovax 23, one of the few vaccines to which the kiwi model is not yet used? What measures have you already taken to ensure the supply of Pneumovax 23 again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u6	Mr Flahaux, Mr Hedebouw, first of all, the medicine Stromectol is not marketed in Belgium. I have no information on the reasons for this non-marketing. The price of Stromectol in France is 18.44 euros for four tablets. The dosage recommends the use of four tablets in one dose, with a maximum of two doses. If the treatment of rare diseases using this medicinal speciality proved to be a serious burden on the household budget and to be therapeutically indispensable and could not be replaced by products of the same nature marketed in Belgium, inclusion in Chapter IVa would still be possible. Thus, this medicine could be included on the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products, so that patients' bills would be reduced. Mrs Onkelinx is not present with us, but I prefer to communicate my answer. Otherwise, she'll rest the question and I'll have to repeat everything! As I have said on many occasions, particularly in the plenary session on 4 May, more and more tariff agreements are being concluded with us on innovative medicines. As a result, their actual cost is lower than the official price. In neighbouring countries, the cost of patented medicines is often higher than here. It is important to limit their cost so that the budgetary impact remains manageable. We also have the hospital package which means that the patient pays the same amount, whether he takes ten tablets or only one. Since 2015, the Covenant of the Future provides for a less expensive prescription - the patent cliff - for medicines that are no longer covered by a patent. In addition, we are introducing more and more biosimilars. Our measures have a lasting effect. Figures from the SPF Economy show that the price of medicines has fallen by 2 per cent over the past two years. From 2015 to 2018 included, we release an amount of 1.4 billion euros to repay innovative treatments, such as immunotherapy. The patient spends $60 million less on medication. As regards the unavailability of medicines, a task force was set up in 2013 within the AFMPS. The problem is therefore not new and it certainly existed under the previous legislature. At the end of 2016, this task force came from two working groups. The first one looks at the unavailability itself, for example because of a break in production. The second one deals with quotaing phenomena. The two working groups are expected to provide me with their conclusions and recommendations before the parliamentary holidays. Mr Hedebouw, on Pneumovax 23, you say that there has been a long-term stock breach. It is true that there was a stock breach for 17 days this year, from 19 January to 6 February. I have been informed that the availability of this vaccine has been guaranteed since then and also now. My services at the pharmaceutical agency FAGG were informed of that temporary unavailability. The manufacturer allocates the limited stock to growing global demand after the cessation of production of a similar vaccine by another manufacturer. Because of this sudden withdrawal his vaccine was more demanded and therefore a temporary shortage of production has arisen. The manufacturer has therefore indicated that it has taken measures to increase its capacity to meet increased demand worldwide. In the case of the so-called sluice-gate model, an invitation to tender is made in which the lowest wins. The other producers who took part in the tender then have the choice, even if they had submitted a higher price, to align and position themselves on that lowest price. If they do not, they will lose their refund, and if they do, they will have a guaranteed volume at a fixed price for a period of three to five years. If several producers align themselves at that lowest price, there is less risk of stock breaches or there is a substitution in the case of stock breaches, which is common among us. For example, there are fifteen or more amoxicillins. If a stock break occurs with the cheapest product, one can always switch to another product, with a price difference of at most a few centimetres. The main disadvantage in that system is that the price is fixed for three to five years and that there is no more dynamics on the market. The price remains stable for the whole period. Allow me to compare that to our system. In our system the cheapest medicine is prescribed and producers must be located within a fork of 5% of the cheapest medicines in order to be considered cheap. In our system we do have a continuous dynamic. Prices are brought down much faster and more frequently. In our system the dynamics are even greater than we originally intended and it turns out to be very efficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u7	Minister, since you are a doctor, I thought you knew everything and I was surprised to find that you did not know the problem of Stromectol. Following your answer, I understood that you were going to disseminate information so that from now on, this medicine could be imported at a reasonable price. It is true that, in absolute terms, this medicine is not very expensive: 18 euros for four tablets that must be taken in one dose and, according to my information, for some time. I think you would take a positive step by moving towards the formula of inclusion in Chapter IVbis that you have mentioned, as well as towards recognition in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u8	Madam Minister, first of all, I note that you do not deny that there are stock problems, even for drugs for which the Kiwi model does not apply, and allow me to react to your very ideological exit, according to which the Kiwi model was synonymous with stock problems. Secondly, I welcome the positive side of sluismodel in relation to a non-storage problem. Thirdly, you have told us about the cheapest medicines in our country, but they are still more expensive than in our neighbours. You make an internal comparison but you do not answer the problem of the price reduction in our country and we see, compared to the Netherlands, very large price differences thanks to the partial application of the competition of the various multinational pharmaceutical companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u9	I don't see Mrs. Hufkens. She didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u10	Madam Secretary, this question was put a while ago. There has been a lot to do about the law on psychotherapy, which has been mentioned here several times. If I understand correctly, the High Council is now in place. I have some questions. We hear that there would be adjustments to the transitional measure in response to the appeal to the Council of State. Can you tell us more about that? What changes are we talking about? What is the state of play on the ground in relation to the implementation of the law? How does the division autonomous versus non-autonomous translate into practice? In the meantime, do the psychotherapists know what to do and what to do? I understand the High Council has been installed. Is it working yet? Where can we follow his work? Where are agendas and opinions published? A final question concerning the assistant professions, which is stated in the law: the King may perform. That leaves room for interpretation. Do you intend to fill this in more concretely in the short term? When do you intend to develop this regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u11	My question is about the Federal Mental Health Council. The Ministerial Order was issued last April. It therefore concerns the associations represented in this Federal Council. There are 17, representing doctors, physicians specializing in neurology, psychiatry, geriatrics. There are representatives of clinician orthopedagogues, psychodynamic guidance doctors, clinicians of speech and language, psychologists,... Here. French-speaking and Dutch-speaking are represented. However, I am astonished, Madam Minister, by the list of these associations or federations. Some have been known for a long time, while others have been formed at the time of the passage of the law in order to meet the criteria of the law and therefore have a representative capacity which is much less guaranteed or less important than other associations known and recognized in particular by the SPF Economy; they have not been retained and I do not see them on the list. I would therefore like to know the arguments and criteria which justified the choices made by your ministerial order for these different associations and the criteria which led to the rejection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the current legal procedure is concerned, we now have only a ruling from the Constitutional Court and not from the Council of State. In its judgment of 16 March, the Constitutional Court states that persons who are not eligible for acquired rights may continue to do so in accordance with the rules laid down in the law on 1 September and those who practice psychotherapy already in 2016, pending the necessary additional transitional measures taken by the legislator. This does not mean, however, that the legislator must draw up a regulation, but that until specific rules are adopted, there are no specific conditions attached to the exercise. The royal decree setting out the criteria for professional associations representing the mental health professions stems from certain central ideas stemming from the law of 10 July 2016, in particular the interdisciplinarity aimed at in the context of our health care. In addition, I am moving on to a principle other than that of the FPS Economy and the minister responsible for patient protection and the professionalization of a health care profession. However, as is the case with the Health Care Act, further measures must be taken to protect patients. As far as the implementation of the law is concerned, the first necessary step is the creation of the Federal Council for the mental health professions. That Board is the advisory body to advise on all matters relating to clinical psychology, clinical orthopedagogy and psychotherapy. The next steps have already been taken. The representativeness criteria for professional associations were issued by KB. The representative trade associations were designated by ministerial decree. There's a president and a vice-president. The functioning and organisation of the Board were regulated and a call was also addressed to the representative professional associations and universities with the demand to nominate members, and so it has been. The installation meeting with a view to the appointment of the members and the installation of the Board shall take place on 15 June. With regard to the work they have ahead of them, the law of 10 June already gives a lot of inspiration. Several implementing acts are listed, for which the Council will issue a mandatory or optional opinion. Finally, I am convinced that the mental health support professions have a very important role to play in mental health care and that the implementation of the legal framework in the current legislature can and must continue to be carried out. The federal council will thus be set up on 15 June and already has a number of priorities. He will, of course, give the most urgent advice first, so that it can be continued during the holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u13	I wanted to hear an update from you, Madam Secretary. I understand that in the coming months we will be working on the priorities of the Council, which are already more or less specific. We will follow that closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u14	Madam Minister, if the objective is professionalization, interdisciplinarity, we can obviously join on such titles. But the difficulty is to say that nascent associations, at the time of their composition, are representative of this or that, are professional and experienced, since they did not exist before. That's a question for me. We will observe them at work. I really hope that the choices have not been guided by the difficulties that have arisen between you, your firm and some associations and federations that did not fully share your views at the time of the passage of this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u15	Mrs. Van Hoof is not here. She didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u16	Madam President, Minister, my first question concerns a survey of Zorgnet-Icuro, which found that there is an urgent demand for 168 additional palliative beds. This was supported by the National Council for Hospital Services, which issued an opinion on this subject. These are beds close to home care. You agreed with the bill to broaden the definition of palliative care and announced that you would implement the results of the PICT study. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, why has the important opinion of the National Council for Hospital Services not yet been implemented on this issue? Is there a moratorium and why? We know that capacity is inadequate. Secondly, do you intend to support these 168 additional and necessary palliative beds in the future? Do you have a budget for that? A more general question relates to the state of implementation of the new law that we have adopted here across party boundaries, with an extended definition and with early and stepped-up care. The federation's palliative care even speak of a momentum because they are celebrating their fifteenth birthday. We all agree that the PICT study offers good solutions to implement this new extended definition well-founded. My questions are very simple. Will you include the instrument PICT in that extended concept? Do you also include proposals for early care planning to support the simple palliative status? A few months ago, you said that it should be budget neutral and that you would reorient the global budget. Do you already have a look at the calculations to reorient the global budget conferatur the results of the PICT study? What's your timing? The sector is waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u17	Madam President, Minister, the June 14, 2002 Hospice Palliative Care Act is fifteen years old. There are two elements on which I think it is important to come back. First, the three palliative care federations unanimously call for the implementation of the law of 21 July 2016 amending the law on palliative care, which removes the three-month life expectancy criterion for the introduction of palliative care and which advocates a more early and gradual introduction according to the needs of the patient, knowing that this approach is clearly based on scientific evidence and supported by the sector. Secondly, I would like to stress the importance of the ICPT study carried out on 12,000 patients in 2015. This study showed that 20% of hospitalized patients, regardless of the type of service, are palliative patients and that in Belgium 16% of cancer patients receive chemotherapy during their last month of life, whereas, a priori, such care is for many cases at this point unnecessary and requires significant financial resources. This means that, in terms of the macro-budgetary approach, there is a possibility of more optimal allocation of resources from the curative sector to the palliative sector. Minister, have you been aware of the requests of the three palliative care federations? To what extent do you intend to take this into account in the reform of hospital funding, since we are at the heart of this issue following the reform of hospital funding for them, in relation to what I have just proposed? Are you going to make progress on the quality, improvement, accessibility and availability of palliative care for the patients involved? In this context, I would like to recall that in 2011 we voted a resolution on improving palliative care and unfortunately, almost six years later, many of the points in this resolution have not yet been implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u18	Madam President, Minister, how can the Palliative Care Indicator, CITT, be implemented? What is your department's opinion? How much, and how much, will palliative care be upgraded and the reform you plan to implement? Finally, what about the timetable for the coming years for the implementation of the sector's financing reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u19	Does Ms. Van Hoof want to join the question? Or she'll just say it again. The other speakers have already formulated their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u20	I would have liked an update on the implementation of the bill adopted in June 2016. The Federal Evaluation Cell Palliative Care has made a global proposal to implement this bill. The PICT scale has since been developed. The question is what has happened to it to this day. How will this PICT scale be implemented in practice? How will care needs be measured, especially in children? What rights will be granted to the different levels of care needs? What statutes will be created? As far as early care planning is concerned, an important step in the palliative care path, how do you plan to expand and sensitise the area in order to use and think about this model of early care planning?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u21	I thank the ladies Fonck, Dedry, Jadin and Van Hoof for their questions. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed sent a request for an opinion to the National Council of Hospital Establishments on the number of SP beds. With respect to the question of whether there is an additional need for beds, the National Council of Hospital Establishments responded as follows. The programming criterion was determined by the Royal Decree of 21 March 1977 laying down the criteria applicable to the programming of different types of hospital services. For the services of specialities (Character Sp) this programming criterion is 0.52 beds per thousand inhabitants. Within this programming criterion, a maximum of 360 Sp beds can be set up for patients with an incurable disease who are in a terminal phase and need palliative help. The network exercise to be carried out in the form of a health strategy plan per network may help to demonstrate and justify in greater detail the need for sp-beds, in addition to identifying the effective and efficient use of all other available palliative structures. The ageing of the population and the increase in the number of deaths caused by this ageing population will increase the pressure on existing structures. In this respect, it is our belief that a well considered and selective investment in additional beds and/or mobile teams, intra-as transmural, is the best choice, whether or not combined with the creation of a diversity of structures: step-up, middle care or a PZE. I think I can conclude from this answer that it is not yet clear to the National Council which beds are deemed necessary or whether there is a need for other structures. If there were a higher need, this should also be reflected in the network exercise, indeed in the form of a care strategic plan per network. But in order to do that, of course, we must first have a demarcation of the networks. He's signing up right now. I do not have to tell you that there are some who are already advanced and are already working hard, and there are some who still have doubts about which network they will join and there it will be slower. The relevant opinion will be submitted to the Inter-Ministerial Conference. That will be the next one to be here this year, I think next month.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u22	In response to Ms. Fonck's question, following the press release of three federations, I can inform you that an opinion on this matter has been issued by the Federal Palliative Care Evaluation Unit. In pursuance of this opinion, a consultation took place in my strategic cell in mid-May, in the presence of the relevant administrations and the President of the Federal Palliative Care Evaluation Unit. Mrs. Van Hoof, you specifically ask for the identification of palliative paediatric patients. No tool has yet been validated for this. A study is under way in the framework of a doctoral thesis that will run until 2020. It is mainly my intention to focus on prior care planning based on the advice of the Federal Evaluation Cell Palliative Care and also to implement the PICT. Prior care planning ensures higher patient satisfaction, a reduction in emotional confusion and also a better connection between the wishes and the care provided, and a decrease in fatal therapy. Also for the PICT we have to go by the IMC. As you know, this is something of a long life, in which not everyone progresses as quickly as possible. In addition to the IMCs, working groups are also working on the implementation of the PICT, which continues to work between the IMCs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u23	Madam Minister, have I understood correctly that the networking exercise must be complete before the extra palliative beds can be allocated? Do we have to wait for the network exercise for the whole country? Or can progress be made in the region where progress has been made? It's not clear to me yet. About the PICT study, you say that this is a long-term work, in which not everyone progresses at the same speed. You say that no tool has yet been validated to apply a number of things. You're talking about a doctorate that lasts until 2020. Are you saying it's definitely not for this legislature anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u24	I didn't say that. The networks that have already formed and which are established can continue to do so and see what can happen within their network. Before we can proceed with the programming for the whole country, that must be true. For this, all the networks must be complete and the cards must be laid.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u25	Is that enough to answer, Mrs. Dedry? You have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u26	For the first part, yes, but we don't have a visual on the timing of the PICT yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u27	Minister, you organized a meeting in May, but you did not tell us what had been discussed about everything that had been concluded during your meetings with the palliative care federations. I take note of that answer. I guess I'll have to talk to them directly to find out what was said at the meeting. You haven't answered much, and I'm still a little hungry. But again, I can only encourage you to move forward on the implementation of the ICPT. Do we need a diversity of structures? The answer is yes. Does this also involve the Interministerial Conference? Yes. This is all the more true since it concerns hospitals, intermediate structures and the home. Many patients are seeking palliative care at home as well. This diversified offer is therefore needed. Nevertheless, throughout the whole reform of hospital funding, there are still questions, as the ICPT study in particular demonstrates, which will have to be decided quite clearly. Minister, making progress on palliative care doesn't necessarily cost the state more. In fact, in terms of the optimal management of the patient's life course, to whom chemotherapy is sometimes given again while he is at the end of his life, in his last month of life... It is not always known in advance, but in a number of cases it could have been qualitatively oriented to its benefit more quickly towards palliative care; it would also allow savings on the state budget compared to unnecessary and very costly treatments. Minister, I can only encourage you to move quickly in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u28	Madam President, Minister, I take note of your reply. I also distinguish a number of things. The project 2020 was mainly a tool for the children, I understood. The PICT study appears to be still a problem between the different working groups. The law clearly states that the King, so you, lays down the detailed rules for the further development of the scientific guidelines used both for the identification of the sick and palliative patient and for the assessment of the wishes and needs of care. It is therefore important to validate the PICT study. Here's what I'm wondering. A lot of partners need to be involved. Where are the barriers to doing so today? After all, I have the impression that there is support, both on the ground and from a scientific point of view, for the PICT study to be carried out. So I am still hungry in terms of where the barriers lie. In fact, there is a financial gap, which could be spread over the whole of the palliative status by existing means, without increasing resources. With regard to supporting the palliative network, I note that the network is now also at Flemish level. I can imagine that there are some questions about this, in particular about what this means for the palliative networks. I do not feel very clearly in your reply at the moment where the barriers lie.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u29	Madam President, Minister, the reason for this question was an article in De Specialist, about collusive sound recordings of a conversation between a doctor and a patient, which could be used as evidence in court. The journal was based on statements by Master Evelien Delbeke, guest professor in the Chair of Health Law and Ethics, during a study day of the Order of West Flanders. If the patient secretly enters into a conversation with his or her doctor, in which he or she participates, without the knowledge of the doctor, it may be allowed as defence material in criminal proceedings against that doctor. In doing so, she would base herself on a court case between a client and a lawyer, in which the client used a collusive sound recording of a conversation with his lawyer. According to a judgment of the Court of Cassation of 17 November 2015, that would also be permitted. In the event of enlargement, this would also apply to doctors and patients. Among other things, BVAS pointed out that the use of such collusive intakes could compromise quality care provision and the relationship of trust between the patient and his or her doctor. Madam Secretary, is it true that such recordings by the patient of conversations with his or her doctor would have been allowed in court proceedings? Have you heard of cases where this has already happened? How do you view the use of such recordings? What impact do you think they could have on the provision of care? Do you think it is necessary to change the regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u30	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, I have not been reported directly on sound recordings in a medical context, but I have, of course, seen the communication from the National Council of the Order of Doctors on the issue. Should such practices occur, it is indeed alarming because they could affect the quality of care. I believe that the provision of high-quality care should allow both patients and doctors to express themselves freely and to exchange experiences in a context of trust and respect. Apart from my general view of this matter, I cannot comment very much. The admissibility of evidence in civil or criminal proceedings falls entirely within the competence of Mr Geens as Minister of Justice. Therefore, I will not make any statements, in particular whether the interpretation made by the Court of Cassation in its judgment of 17 November 2015 can be converted into a possible case in a medical context. Even though that judgment considers that recording a conversation by a participant in the conversation, in this case a conversation between lawyer and client, without other participants knowing it, is not illegal in itself, every situation is different. I am thinking, for example, of the content of the conversation, the circumstances of the conversation and the capacity of the participants. Only a judge takes a decision in that regard within the individual context of the case before him. As regards conversations between patient and caregiver, I believe that it is really necessary for both of them to be able to count on the confidentiality of the conversation and mutual respect. I therefore find the above-mentioned practices terrifying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u31	Madam Minister, I do not believe that the concerns of the National Council are unjustified. I understand that this is largely a matter for the Justice Department in terms of interpretation, but I do not know whether it has ever been a discussion within the framework of the law on patients' rights and whether it is being considered in the evaluation. In any case, I hope that we will stay away from that path, or that we may be able to include it in it for clarification. After all, the verdict has caused a number of doctors a great deal of concern. It is good that you have a clear position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u32	Madam President, Minister, last March I asked you about the refusal of a significant number of physiotherapists to sign up for the INAMI agreement. You then told me that, at the end of February, the INAMI Insurance Committee had drawn up an individual convention text which was to be submitted to all physiotherapists. You also stated that this individual convention contained various measures that were beneficial to both patients and physiotherapists. Finally, you added that you had made considerable efforts, in collaboration with the services of INAMI, to reach both an individual agreement and the adoption of the Convention. Despite these good intentions, it must be noted that, in fact, the blockages persist - this was, in any case, the case when I tabled my question - in the light of the action initiated by the representative association of the kines, Axxon, which referred the matter to the Council of State in protest against the individual tariff convention as approved at the end of February. Among the points denounced by Axxon, there is the clause deemed discriminating towards physiotherapists who do not adhere to the agreement that their patients will be reimbursed 25% less than the patients of the contracted kines. In this regard, the President of Axxon, who has been removed from the negotiations, speaks of a dictatorial attitude on your part, far from your desire for dialogue, which was displayed last March. Minister, on March 10, all physiotherapists were supposed to have received a letter informing them of the contents of the agreement. They had 30 days to decide on their membership. How many responses have you received? What is the proportion of kines who have decided to accede to the Convention? How do you justify that the Axxon association could not take part in the negotiations? Do you not fear that these disagreements and this possible cancellation of the individual agreement will again have important consequences for patients and their accessibility to such care? Could you give me any information on the status of this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u33	Madam Minister, it is indeed a question of 10 May, a month ago. As far as I know, however, not many things have changed in the meantime. I will not repeat what Mr Senesael has already said. The Axxon trade association went to the Council of State against the new tariff agreement approved by the RIZIV at the end of February. That seems to me very dangerous, because if the Council of State were to destroy the tariff agreement, the physiotherapists would in principle be free to set their rates themselves. I am very concerned about that and I wonder what you are doing about it. How do you assess this evolution? Do you have any idea what will be the result of this war, if I may call it that? The most important question, however, is what exactly are you going to do to protect patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u34	Madam Minister, I do not need to repeat everything, because my question is in the same direction and has been here for just as long. The main emphasis is on the danger of the kinesi therapists being decontaminated. The longer this kinesi war lasts, the greater the danger that more and more kinesi therapists will be deconventional. Another aspect that has been questioned is the granting of quality premiums. What's the status? Are you still in agreement with the majority of this profession? What efforts have you made since then to ensure that the negotiations are successful? The problems are known, namely the barely rising income, the small fee for house visits and the delay in eHealth. Are you considering measures to address these problems in the future? Are there, above all, agreements on quality premiums? If yes, are these only intended for the confessed kinesi therapists, for the kinesi therapists who have given their agreement or for everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u35	Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Dedry, first of all, if I may say so, I would not use the word 'war' in these days. When it comes to this matter between the insurance institutions and the representative organisation of the physiotherapists, I would like to distance myself from the word "war'. I believe that other things are happening in the world now, and unfortunately we have to take that word into our mouths. Mr Senesael, I make it clear that I attach great importance to the model of consultation. I have taken several initiatives towards the various partners, namely the professional organization, the insurers, the administration to try to obtain an agreement within the Commission of agreements between the physiotherapists and the insurers. The conflict does not lie between me and the physiotherapists but in the consultation between the physiotherapists and the insurers, in which the representative professional organisation and the mutuals sit. This, moreover, led to the meeting of this commission three times in January 2017 without any agreement being reached there. Next, the INAMI Insurance Committee sent a convention text to the physiotherapists (22,000), as provided for in the law. This is not a dictatorial gesture but a real procedure provided for in our model of consultation and in the law. The Insurance Committee includes representatives of the various health care professions, i.e. doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and an equivalent number of mutuals representatives. The text of the convention drawn up also contains various elements for which the professional organisation representative of the physiotherapists has argued. As of April 13, 2017, 18,770 physiotherapists have acceded to the new convention. 18 770 out of 22,000, or 84.01%! At this level, they are physiotherapists with a claimant profile in 2015 and physiotherapists who obtained an INAMI number in 2016 as determined in Article 12 of this Convention. This shows that there is a relatively important basis for this agreement for 2017 allowing for a certain stability and tariff security for the patient. The consultations with a view to concluding a subsequent agreement, which would take place from 1 January 2018, have already started within the physiotherapists insurance institutions' Committee for the Agreements. It is also intended to complete this before the end of this year. The representative professional organisation shall take an active part in the consultations. In the context of ongoing consultations, it is, of course, bizarre that an appeal has been made to the Council of State by a partner at the negotiating table. I can only wonder about that. I cannot, of course, comment on this appeal, the outcome and how we will respond to it. That file will have to go to the Council of State on a regular basis. In any case, I will continue to engage in constructive consultations between the partners concerned, which should also benefit the patient. Together with the definition of the text of the agreements, which was sent individually to the physiotherapists, the representatives of the physiotherapists and the Insurance Committee also signed a covenant containing various agreements and commitments in the field of physiotherapy. This concerns several positive initiatives for this sector and a task force has also been set up with precise short-term tasks. A report on its progress will be submitted to the Insurance Committee on 30 June. A draft decision will also be submitted to the Insurance Committee for approval on the same date, 30 June, which will allow the establishment of a quality system for physiotherapists. At the end of this month I will have more information on the results of this work. I cannot therefore give my opinion on this at the moment. However, it is clear that the representatives of the physiotherapists and of the sickness funds are closely involved in this consultation. Now everything must be done and we shall see where the consultations lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation of the development of this issue. Moreover, in the current circumstances, it is necessary to be very precise in the vocabulary we use. I didn't say you had a dictatorial attitude, but Axxon claimed it. I wanted to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u37	I just reacted to the word...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u38	Yes, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u39	I know it's not yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u40	I wanted to clarify two aspects, Madam Minister. First, I note that the thread of the negotiations has been drawn and that you have set the presentation of the draft revision on 30 June. We will be attentive to the decisions you will then make and to the evolution of this project. Secondly, the rate of participants responding to and acceding to the new convention is very significant, reaching 84%. We are also waiting to know the status of the procedure followed by the Council of State and the results of this instruction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u41	Madam Secretary, you don't seem to appreciate a bit of metaphor. I honestly refuse to adapt my language to what is happening in the world at the moment. But that's not what this is about. We shall indeed see. The example that Mr Senesael cited, which appeared somewhere that Axxon said that you were doing your bit in a dictatorial way, illustrates what I mean. You quote it yourself, you also find it strange that a partner who sits at the table is appealing. I am not speaking out here about who is right or wrong. Apart from that, the fact that one is clearly not satisfied and that one kicks to all sides, so to speak, illustrates the uncertainty in the sector. Again, I'm not saying who's right here. For me, this illustrates the fact that there is a great deal of uncertainty in the sector at the moment. You yourself state that you do not know which direction it is heading. What concerns me most is, of course, the patient's position. What's this gonna get the patient in the end? Maybe that's why I used this strange metaphor, which clearly annoys you. I have a feeling that the patient is not between fires but between different fires. I hope this will be over soon. I understand that at this stage you can make few predictions, but I hope that you will do everything you can to provide the patient with certainty very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u42	Madam Secretary, it seems to me that you would like to add something to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u43	It's your turn to reply, Mrs. Dedry. Let us stick to the format. It'll be long enough. I'd like to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u44	Anyway, this has been dragging on for a long time. That is the disturbing thing about the issue. I now hear, in June, that the timetable sets the date of 1 January 2018. I can only share the opinion of my colleague Jiroflée that the patient is the victim of this, that deconvention on the ground is seriously under way and is a real problem for the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u45	I do not agree if you say that the patient is the victim, while 84 percent of the physiotherapists work according to the convention. You know very well what the convention rates are in other consultative bodies. Mrs Jiroflée, I would like to note that you are now also taking the floor. There was a time when representatives in the Chamber used a respectful language. I note that that time is over, at least for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u46	Madam President, I am very sorry, but I have no other words for what is happening at the moment and what we have seen happening in countries around us in recent weeks. Let's make that very clear. Whether you think this is polite or not, I don't really care. As far as the substance of the case is concerned, 84 % has indeed been found, but it is clear that one does not agree with what is happening. People are kicking on both sides, as I said, and that is why I am very worried. I believe you should be the Minister of Health, too. I am very concerned about what is going to happen to the patient, now and in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u47	The Federal Council for Hospital Services has already been mentioned in previous questions. There is also concern among the members of the permanent working group on psychiatry, because it would be abolished and working groups would be transferred to ad hoc groups. However, you and your administration have always confirmed, even stressed, the usefulness of the working group. There are examples of this in the written record of my question. The opinions given so far by the Working Group have also contributed to good reforms in mental health care. It is bizarre that this useful working group would be abolished or abolished. With regard to the composition of that federal council, the criticism is that, with the exception of two patients, only people who are very hospital-bound are part of it, so that the bridge is no longer made between the federal council and the permanent working group on psychiatry. Is it still the case that the permanent working group on psychiatry is being abolished or is it still being preserved? A number of weeks have elapsed since the submission of the demand. So maybe you've changed your decision by now. Will there still be a relationship between the permanent working group or the new ad hoc working group and the federal council? Especially the clinical psychologists ask to become more actively involved in the federal council. In the context of the recognition of that profession in our well-known Royal Decree No. 78 It is indeed important that we can keep that focus and that they also get a place in all kinds of councils.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u48	Ms. Dedry, the law of 18 December 2016 transformed the National Council for Hospital Facilities into a federal council. The decision implies that, in addition to the name, the structure and composition are adjusted. Thus, the Recognition, Programming and Financing departments are merged and all permanent working groups, Psychiatry and University Hospitals are abolished. The federal council will only be able to issue opinions on federal powers, because the recognition has dropped at federal level after the sixth state reform. How can we separate programming and funding from each other? If you program things, you have to pay them and vice versa. The federal council will only issue opinions on federal powers. As a result, no members have been included on behalf of the Länder in the Council either. The Federal Council will consist of a chairman and two vice-presidents, thirty effective and thirty alternate members. A guaranteed representation from mental health care is provided by at least eight effective and at least six alternate members. There are also possibilities for drawing up ad hoc working groups to prepare opinions on specific issues. Moreover, the permanent working group on psychiatry was not allowed to provide advice. It was actually only for the preparation of the opinions of the National Council. In fact, there was no guaranteed representation of mental health care in the national council at the time. This sometimes led to situations where documents had been discussed in the permanent working group, but had no or an adapted result in plenary. That situation was no longer desirable. We therefore prefer a permanent representation in the body in which decisions are taken and think that this is a stronger signal in the interests of mental health care. The reform of mental health care is indeed aimed at socialisation and network development. That is why it is not only controlled by the federal government, but also by the Inter-Ministerial Conference. The Inter-Ministerial Conference therefore decided on 21 March to set up a consultative body to monitor the reform of mental health care for adults. It includes experts and actors. These are representatives of the five functions of reform, including clinical psychology, and psychiatrists of both psychiatric hospitals and PAAZ, psychiatric departments of general hospitals, and indeed representatives of family and patient associations. I therefore believe that the cooperation between the newly constituted federal council and the consultative bodies that follow the reform in mental health care will actually be much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u49	Thank you. You have now clarified that there is a guaranteed representation through the effective members. That wasn't clear to me before, or misreported.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delannois, President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We haven't heard from him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u51	Madam Minister, I am referring to a written question on the contribution of a certain hospital in response to which I have also linked back. As an example, I mention Herentals in 2014, where the contribution is EUR 293 000, i.e. a positive balance of EUR 18 000. In reality, however, it is a very different amount, namely an invoice of EUR 670 000, with a concession of EUR 300 000, i.e. a negative balance of EUR 370 000, which is a huge difference. In other years too, the amounts appear to be different in practice. Madam Minister, perhaps I misinterpreted the table and I would therefore like to ask you how the difference between the figures in the table and the real figures can be explained. More generally, where do you stand with the revision of the key for the institutions for whom that key is negative today? For the concrete example I have mentioned, this amount represents a huge bite from the budget which is becoming more and more difficult to bear. I would also like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u52	Mrs. Van Camp, it's technical, but I'll explain it to you. First of all, the compensation in the Hospital Financial Resources Budget covers part of the burden arising from the pension reform, i.e. the increase in patronial contributions and the possible response invoices. Moreover, for OCMW staff, only staff with a NACE code are charged hospital activity, i.e. not everyone, as was present during the last trimester of the pension reform, i.e. the last trimester of 2011. These are codes 86.101 to 86.104. The NACE code deals with the general classification of economic activities in the European Communities. Thus, the invoice of EUR 671 000 covers all OMCW staff of Herentals, but the staff with a NACE code hospital activity is only 51.82%. That explains the amount. In fact, 51.82% of the staff is taken into account, because only that part of the staff is covered by that provision. Afterwards, the final contributions and response charges will only be charged in the calculation of the flat rate by two years of delay. Therefore, the 2012 charges were partly financed in the 2014 BFM of 2013 in the 2015 BFM and 2014 in the 2016 BFM. Now let me take the 2014 data. In the table we see that the hospital staff response bill is 286 000 euros and that the contribution costs for hospital staff are 819 000 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u53	These data have been granted the right to receive funding of EUR 301 000 in the BFM of the private hospital employing OCMW staff. As far as the revision of the key is concerned, for the institutions for whom this key is negative, as in the above-mentioned concrete example, this is indeed a huge bite from the budget. Since 2016, in addition to the already foreseen budgets, BFM has been allocated an additional budget of 10.5 million euros to hospitals receiving a response bill, provided that their statutory staff do not increase. The rules are as follows: In order to maintain the right to finance, from 2017 onwards, the hospital must prove each year that the average number of full-time statutory or full-time employees made available by a local or provincial government member of a consolidated pension fund of the DIBISS does not exceed the average full-time equivalent statutory or statutory status of the year 2016. For the sake of clarity, therefore, this is an additional budget allocated according to a key agreed within the government, which indeed emphasises the contribution to the response. Indeed, it was found that, in particular, hospitals phasing out their statutory accounts are faced with a significant invoice for the contribution due. You know that this has not happened everywhere with the same speed and enthusiasm. It is clear that this is an undesirable effect. That is why the government has allocated an additional 10.5 million. As I have already said, the costs have not been eliminated, but it is not as bad as you think. You think there is such a big difference, but it is only a good 50% of the staff involved. Everything else doesn't change.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u54	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. That is certainly a clarification. I will be able to reverse that and compare it again with the figures on the ground. I would very much like to hear you say that there is an extra budget for the institutions that are committed to abolishing these statutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u55	Madam Minister, last February, I asked you about the reform that you intend to implement for urgent medical assistance. My concern comes from a fact that I make daily as president of the emergency zone of Picardy Wallonia, namely that the bill for the citizen during the transport by ambulance remains too high. It is therefore urgent to move things forward because of the underfunding of this service operated by the federal government, but also because of the way in which the amount to be paid by the patient remains discriminatory. Indeed - and I explained it to you already in my previous question - how can we explain to two people living on the same street that they will have to pay different sums to go to the same hospital because of the origin of the ambulance? In response to my question last February, you told me that you had developed a strategic vision for non-programmable care, which includes the reform of emergency medical aid, based on the advice of the National Emergency Medical Council. More specifically, you were concerned about finding additional ways to ensure fair and transparent funding for urgent medical assistance in order to lower the patient's bill. Minister, have you already, as announced, organized a consultation within the government on this issue? Can you give me more details on what this reform is going to do? Will it make it possible to make the bill for the patient fair? Can an additional budget be made available within this framework so that it remains a public service mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u56	Mr Delannois, the plan to reform non-planable care has been discussed in the government. The result is that a first phase of the reform of emergency medical aid is included in the 28 conclusion points of our Thematic Council of Ministers of 14 May 2017 and that the government has decided to release 35 million euros from 2018 in order to launch this first phase. I remind you that already in 2017 I had increased the budget by 12 million euros. This budget does not yet fully cover the cost of the reform, which will obviously take several years. My administration and my firm are busy finalizing the detailed analysis of what can already be put in place with this budget for the period from now to 2018. This analysis is expected to be presented during the discussions on Budget 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you. I stay a little bit on my hunger for at least one of the questions. I understand that there will be supplementary budgets. That's a good thing. We'll see if that's enough. I can't pronounce myself now. I will also do my own analysis. On the other hand, as I told you earlier in a previous committee, you should at least allow the rescue zones to pool costs. I am thinking of the case where two people living on the same street have two totally different bills for the same hospital, only because the ambulance comes from elsewhere. Mutualization is the very foundation of the reform of the relief zone. It is incomprehensible to the citizen to have two completely different bills for the same service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u58	Mr Delannois, it seems to me that he said earlier, but I am not sure. When the reform has been fully implemented, our aim is to have a fixed rate for every citizen regardless of where he or she is located when there is a call. This is in the note. An amount of €65 per trip is provided for. Currently, there are grey areas. In some cases, you have to call an ambulance from too far. Invoices are calculated per kilometre travelled. Those who live near a hospital are more likely to have one of the three ambulances present because the third ambulance shows that the occupancy rate is very low. This depends on where you live and the number of ambulances in the position near home. Our goal was to prevent people from paying bills three times higher under the same conditions than others...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u59	At present, it is not possible for a rescue area to rely on the number of kilometres travelled. It would be easier to ensure that the area could pool the costs. For example, if a person who lives on street X near the hospital in Tournai has to call an ambulance but the ambulances in Tournai are not there, it is an ambulance from Mouscron that will come and she will pay three times more. If you allow the emergency areas to pool the costs, we could ensure that these costs are more acceptable to each other. Sometimes, for lack of luck, the nearest ambulance is not available and the patient can't help it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u60	We've never done a great deal of reform for the whole country. The aim would be to have a fixed rate for citizens, regardless of where they live. We're going to change the payment system per kilometer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u61	That's all I'm asking you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u62	It is clear that there are gaps in the coverage of the territory, especially on nights and weekends.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u63	I ask you to share this in a rescue zone, which represents a large territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u64	The ideal would be to think in a combined way about how to better cover the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u65	Madam President, Minister, Belgium, the second largest European country in terms of the density of the pharmaceutical network, with 44 pharmacies per 100 000 inhabitants, apparently has too many pharmacies. Despite the political will shown for several years to reduce their number, which has resulted in the adoption of a moratorium whose validity has been extended until 2019, it must be noted that this has not been as effective as hoped. This situation is problematic in that such a density may adversely affect the survival of many of these clinics. In order to solve this problem, some experts believe that pharmacists should be encouraged to merge their trade with close competitors, which would have several advantages, including increasing purchasing power while reducing fixed costs. In addition, mergers would allow pharmacists to improve their supply of services and advice on the proper use of medicines. In fact, we have often talked about this in this committee. Minister, what is your view on the situation of pharmacies in Belgium? Is there a difference between the regions in terms of closures? Would you be inclined to take steps to encourage pharmacists to carry out such mergers? It appears that the multi-annual agreement negotiated with pharmacists' representatives, which is in the process of being voted on, provides for pharmacists to advise their clients on the use of medicines, on a fee-for-service basis. Do you confirm this information? How will this be implemented in practice? Could you, on the other hand, give us the main points of this agreement and tell us what new services could be developed by pharmacists?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u66	Madam President, Minister, over the past five years, every ten days, a pharmacy has closed its doors. Small independent pharmacists have been particularly ill-treated. The multi-annual framework you have concluded with professional organisations, the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association (BPA) and the Office for Cooperative Pharmacies of Belgium (OPHACO) in March 2017 provides for a number of changes in the distribution of pharmacies in Belgium. In particular, it provides for the abolition of the possibility of transferring a pharmacy on the basis of an improvement in the demo-geographical distribution, the creation of a new possibility of transferring a pharmacy, the authorisation of at least one official pharmacy open to the public in each municipality, the further reduction of the number of pharmacies by encouraging mergers not linked to a transfer, the extension of the moratorium on openings for 5 years, a shortening of the duration of temporary closures from 10 years to 1 year, with a transitional measure. I'm not quoting them all, but I wanted to target the ones who called me the most. You have also indicated that it will be examined whether the task of the establishment commission can be restricted and/or taken over by the AFMPS and that in the context of transparency of decision-making, both requests and transfer decisions will be published online. Many pharmacies have closed in recent years. Projections even predict that there will be some 750 extirpations in the next ten years (130 in Brussels, 230 in Flanders, 390 in Wallonia). There will be more in Wallonia than elsewhere because they are smaller and therefore more fragile. Minister, can we take stock of this issue? How long do you intend to adopt these measures relating to the distribution of pharmacies in the territory? What do you think of the projections I just mentioned? They raise questions for municipalities with less than 3,000 inhabitants. How do you intend to inform all official pharmacies of the measures that will be adopted? What criteria will you assess the new regulation? Could you explain why you wish to restrict the task of the establishment board or transfer it to the AFMPS? Could you provide us with information on how applications and transfer decisions can be published online?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u67	Madam Minister, from 2011 to 2016, 169 pharmacists closed their doors in Belgium. That amounts to a closure every ten days, as La Libre Belgique writes. Belgium today has 44 pharmacists per 100 000 inhabitants. The first cause seems to us to be government policy. You encourage mergers between smaller pharmacists. In addition, pharmacists should also play a more important role in primary care. That is what the Minister and the representatives of the pharmacists in our country agreed in the Multi-Year Framework for the patient with the official pharmacists. However, if the number of pharmacists falls, this will also reduce access to primary care. The second reason, however, is the emergence of large pharmacy chains that absorb small independent businesses and the emergence of commercial players who want to offer medicines over the Internet. Today, for example, the commercial player Medicare-Market is organising a huge advertising campaign to get his health products and even medicines out on the market. He abused the media attention that brought our bus trips from 6 May to Hulst and Maastricht. We would also like to distance ourselves from this point of view. Health care must not be a commodity. It's in our DNA. Products on which health claims are made should not be treated as ordinary consumer products. That is why medicinal products subject to prescription should not be advertised directly to the public. A medicine is not a washing powder, in which one can test whiter washing without danger. In response to Medicare-Market's advertising campaign, Lieven Zwaenepoel, the chairman of the General Pharmaceutical Association (APB), wrote: "Access to health care is a human right and therefore a responsibility of the community. This cannot be left to the free market, which, as we all know, encourages consumerism. Health care is not a free market, because fortunately there are legal rules and deontological codes that prevent or curb abuse of people with health problems. My questions are as follows, Madam Secretary. How do you respond to the declining number of pharmacies in our country? Do you think that the decline in the number of pharmacies is jeopardising the accessibility of primary care, in which pharmacists play an important role? How do you respond to the advertising campaign of the commercial player Medicare-Market, who wants to get his health products and even medicines out on the market? What measures will you take to protect small pharmacists from large chains and commercial players?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u68	Mrs Fonck, Mr Senesael and Mr Hedebouw, on 15 March, I signed with the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association and the Belgian Cooperative Pharmacy Office a multi-year framework on the role of the pharmacist in patient care. This agreement restores the role of the official pharmacist as a health care provider in primary care, close to the patient. As an expert on medicines, the pharmacist can guarantee quality pharmaceutical care. He can guide the patient in the correct and effective use of medicines, give advice, promote adherence to therapy, etc. In this way, he can contribute to the patient's quality of life. The role of the official pharmacist as caregiver within the first line is strengthened. Pharmacists will pay more attention to patient guidance in the areas of medication, health literature and prevention. There will also be more attention to interdisciplinary cooperation with the GP and other healthcare providers. In addition, the concept of "pharmacist of reference" (in Dutch: "huisapotheker") was introduced by analogy with that of "family doctor". Thanks to his general knowledge of patients, the reference pharmacist will be able to better adapt his advice to their individual needs. The first beneficiaries of these services will be chronic patients as well as patients with type 2 diabetes, included in a "diabetes" pre-transmission. Different care providers are involved in the treatment and follow-up of these patients, who are often multi-mediated. Integrated cooperation between providers is therefore essential to ensure the quality of care. Today, in practice, many pharmacists already fulfil this role, especially for chronic patients. By officially introducing the term "pharmaceutical reference", we want to highlight this function by indicating that it is a long-term therapeutic commitment to the patient. In addition, additional measures are planned to improve the quality of master preparations. APB and OPHACO are developing a self-control system. Master's preparations may be subcontracted to specialist pharmacists. The strengthening of the role of official pharmacist as a primary care provider will be fully integrated into the reform of the Law on the Exercise of Health Care Professions, i.e. the former Decree No. 78. The professional title of official pharmacist will be officially recognized. This will make it possible to set certain criteria, in particular in terms of diplomas required and continuing training. In this way, the quality of pharmaceutical care will be better guaranteed. In addition, a Federal Advisory Body for Pharmacists will be established within the future Health Care Professions Council, composed of representatives of universities and professional organizations. This advisory body may decide in particular on the content to be given to pharmaceutical care, the missions and responsibilities of pharmacists, the development of specific professional qualifications, etc. The multi-annual framework also contains agreements aimed at improving the financial value of the function of provider of care provided by the official pharmacist. To do so, a reallocation of fees is planned, without any budgetary implications. While their current remuneration is based on the delivery of drugs, official pharmacists will be paid primarily for the provision of quality pharmaceutical care. In addition to improving quality, the multiannual framework aims to improve the accessibility of pharmaceutical care. Information on child care services will be available on an ongoing basis at www.pharmacie.be and will subsequently be integrated into the free service of the 1733 system. In addition, while on duty, official pharmacists will no longer charge the patient for the medication prescribed by a physician, unless it is clearly not an urgent case, that is, if the prescription was not made the same day. For guards from 10 p.m. to 8 a.m., official pharmacists will receive an availability fee. Another measure concerns the amendment of the Royal Decree of 25 September 1975 concerning the opening, transfer and merger of pharmaceutical officers open to the public. Every citizen has the right to receive quality pharmaceutical care near his or her home. The current situation is that the number of pharmacies is 5,113 (on 22 May), the pharmacies temporarily closed included. The figures by Region are shown in the table: 612 in the Brussels-Capital Region, 1 821 in Wallonia, 2 680 in Flanders. There is also an overview of the final closures and mergers per year and per chamber of the commission. On the Francophone side, there were 5 closures in 2011, 6 in 2012, 7 in 2013, 4 in 2014 and 6 in 2015. On the Dutch side there were two closures in 2011, in 2012 three, in 2013 four, in 2014 one and in 2015 none. The number of mergers varies in the same way and, at present, the number of pharmacies is very high in our country: 44 or 45 pharmacies per 100,000 inhabitants, 35 in France, 27 in Germany and 12 in the Netherlands. Their distribution is no longer very well balanced, with over-concentration in cities, while some rural areas face a shortage. The new distribution rules aim to stimulate mergers and collaborations, while creating a better balance in the territory. With regard to the establishment of pharmacies, work is under way and a draft order is expected by the end of the year. Its publication will be relayed via the usual channels, professional associations. The online publication of requests for decisions will be made on the Agency's website and will allow potential applicants for authorisation to verify whether an application for a particular place is already affected by another application, thereby avoiding the introduction of a transfer that will in any case be refused or will have to be attached to another application, such as a merger. As regards the modification of the role of the siting committee, in view of the simplification of the procedures envisaged, applications or part of them could be dealt with in a purely administrative manner. It therefore seems to me appropriate to assess whether the establishment commission should remain in charge of these simple cases. I will give you an example of the displacement of a few hundred metres from an office in the same street, following the purchase of a better equipped land or house. Evaluation of the new legislation will be carried out, inter alia, on the impact it will have on the number of pharmacies or on any problems which may arise. My administration, of course, has the aim, with the drafting of the new legislation, of proposing a robust and robust text. However, as it would introduce new concepts into a very complex subject matter, we must prepare ourselves for the unexpected. As far as the arrival of very large players on the market is concerned, I can only say that they have remained within the legal rules at the time, otherwise they will not be able to create anything. That is why an amendment of the legislation on the movement or fusion of officials was also called for. It's a lot of work. It is also very difficult to negotiate on this, because APB and OPHACO had a somewhat different view on it. That is why they are closely involved in the further consultation and development that will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u69	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your complete answers to the questions I asked you, the March 15 agreement and the evolution of the pharmaceutical landscape in the country. I'll analyze your long answer. In any case, thank you for all the answers you have given us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u70	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. The dimension of advice to patients from pharmacists is obviously fundamental, whether it is medication, compliance, avoidance of side effects or good use for chronic patients (asthma or diabetes). Their intervention really brings a major added value. I would like to draw your attention to two points. The first is that we have to work with the sector. I still feel that modalities can be fine-tuned and improved. I would like to insist on that. The second point is that we still need to pay serious attention to accessibility for the patient. There are great differences in the territory of Belgium, Madam Minister. I checked: there are 23 communes with less than 3,000 inhabitants. There are smaller, independent, more fragile pharmacists who have not yet been taken over by large groups. Their position is not simple. They have already been put to the test by savings in 2017. It seems to me important to pay attention to the preservation of officiaries, including in rural areas. There are many more in Wallonia than in the other regions. I wonder if we could not lift the brakes on close collaborations, without these small pharmacies necessarily having to merge. This would allow them to remain in rural areas that would otherwise no longer have a pharmacy, which would undermine accessibility for patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u71	Minister, I do not share your enthusiasm when you say that mergers are a positive thing for front-line medicine and accessibility. You want to give the market the power to decide whether or not a pharmacy is needed somewhere based on profitability. That's not the right option. There are many places where there is less population or less purchasing power. You cannot stimulate the application of market rules to make an undemocratic decision on access to medicines. I do not share your enthusiasm for the agreements signed. I hope that we will have a market intervention to prevent large groups from continuing to buy out the smallest players in the field, who have this particularity of knowing their patient, of knowing their neighbourhood and who can guarantee accessible front-line medicine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u72	Mr. Frédéric cannot be present and apologizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u73	Minister, if cystic fibrosis remains incurable for the time being, its treatment is beginning to progress enormously. Two new treatments have appeared, with effects greater than the existing symptomatic treatments. They really allow positive effects on lung function and body weight, thus reducing antibiotic use and hospitalizations and delaying disease progression. Among these two medicines, Kalydeco has already been reimbursed since February 2016 for a very limited group of patients aged two years and older, an estimate of 35 to 40 people in Belgium. The other, Orkambi, is offered to patients over 12 years of age and with other mutations. This medicine is made available free of charge to patients in these clinics or who receive samples on request from their attending physician, but for the rest, it is not accessible and there is no refund. However, this reimbursement exists in other EU countries: France, Italy, Luxembourg, Ireland, Austria, Denmark, Germany. In Belgium, if reimbursed, it would involve more or less 340 patients. This refund application was submitted in early 2016. We were waiting for the decision by June 2017. The firm is asking for 700 euros per daily dose: this is unpayable, despite the negotiations with Holland. Patients and their families are particularly concerned. My question, which concerned this request for reimbursement, is obviously widening at the price: is it also 700 euros in the other countries? You have "not respected" the secret of negotiations, and so much the better, but it does not appease families who wish to have access to this medicine. How will future negotiations take place? What is the status of routine screening for cystic fibrosis in newborns, in collaboration with the Communities, as they have expressed their support for this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u74	Madam President, thank you for your very full introduction. I'm definitely not gonna take it back. Madam Minister, I would like to add a few aspects that have not yet been addressed. In the meantime, I understand that Orkambi is the first experimental drug in the pilot project of Benelux cooperation, which has been set up for this purpose, but only between Belgium and the Netherlands. How do you experience this cooperation? I would certainly like to repeat the following question. Will those calls be restarted with the company? They certainly seem to me to have the will to restart those talks and renegotiate the terms. Is that will with you? What concrete steps are you going to take in this regard? When exactly do you expect an outcome in the file? In a broader context, on what scientific basis and on what results is the decision based today? With a qaly comparison, we see a very wide range of medicines for rare diseases. It is sometimes difficult for patients to explain why, for example, a medicine with a much higher qaly is reimbursed, often for a smaller group of patients than for a larger group of patients. How do you conduct that communication? How is it still clear to people why the cure in which they would really benefit would be repaid and why not for others?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u75	Madam President, I too am not going to repeat everything; the problem was clearly outlined. And indeed, in the meantime, a decision has been made. Madam Minister, I have read somewhere that you continue to hope that the manufacturer will make an acceptable proposal, that you really hope that it can come back to the market and that you will even pay a decent price for it, but that the price setting is really too high at the moment. I just wanted to ask what the state of play is on this dossier. Are you planning any further discussions? Is the manufacturer still willing to sit back at the table? Or is there perhaps already a germ of a new decision? I hope so, along with all those patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u76	Minister, cystic fibrosis is the most common fatal genetic disease in Belgium. We have argued for advances in prenatal screening. The Muco association obviously contacted us all. Mrs Gerkens, as you have read the letter she sent, I will not recall the content of it. Minister, I'd like to know why it's skating. Is it a question of price? If this is the case, has the firm made an unreasonable request in comparison with other EU countries, whose repayment systems already provide for the availability of Orkambi. These are France, Italy, Luxembourg, Denmark, Ireland, Austria and Germany. We therefore have an overview of the prices charged by the companies concerned. In terms of transparency, I can understand that you're telling me that you won't tell me everything. On the other hand, I would like to know the breakdown of the comparison of prices in other States. This research would take me some time. I know you can easily dispose of it. I would therefore like to obtain this information today. This is a major issue for patients. Now, when it skates, it hurts them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u77	Madam President, Madam Minister, I think the setting is in place. I will therefore simply ask the minister, who has received my question in writing, to provide us with an update on the progress of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u78	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about one more aspect. After all, my fellow Members have outlined the problem well. If I remember correctly, in 2015 you concluded an agreement with your Dutch colleague in the framework of the protocol agreement, to weigh more on the negotiations and to be stronger as Belgium-Netherlands. That's not the first time, by the way. We have often argued here that we should join forces much more, even at European level. What is the state of play in this respect? I know that you said at the time that you would like more countries to join, so that we would be stronger. Since this is a Belgian-Dutch problem where it does not succeed, while others seem to succeed, I have the following question. What about the protocol agreement and the pilot project? Can we learn from it and take it with us in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u79	Madam President, thank you all for the questions. Orkambi is a medicine used to treat a certain type of cystic fibrosis, which affects nearly 500 patients in Belgium and 750 patients in the Netherlands. According to the data provided by the manufacturer, this would be a 3% improvement in lung function. In addition, there was a significant reduction in the number of pulmonary inflammations, ranging from 30 to 40%. However, long-term information was not yet available. It is therefore also necessary to conduct a more in-depth study. The annual price is approximately 170,000 euros per person. The manufacturer did not provide any details on the structure of the price: allocation of research costs, marketing costs, etc. In addition to this lack of transparency, it did not seem willing to offer a socially acceptable annual price of less than 170,000 euros per person. It is EUR 170 000 per person per year. According to the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products, the relationship between the limited value added for the patient and the exorbitant price is not favourable. That is why she gave a negative opinion. The Commission for the Refund of Medicinal Products considered that the price had to decrease significantly before the product could be taken into account for a refund. The Zorginstituut Nederland considers that Orkambi is not eligible for inclusion in the basic package in the current price-cost effectiveness. According to the Zorginstituut Nederland, the price should fall by 82% before there is a more favourable cost-effectiveness. The CTG proposed a similar price reduction in order to achieve acceptable cost efficiency. The INAMI Drug Reimbursement Commission in Belgium and the Netherlands Institute of Health Care have worked together on the evaluation and their decision is unanimous. The two institutes consider that the added value of this medicine is insufficient for the patient and that the cost is very high. From this point of view, cooperation between Belgium and the Netherlands was very positive. They have conducted the negotiations together. Then, as provided for in the Protocol, we gave a separate opinion on cost-effectiveness. With us this advice is given by the CTG and with them this is done by the Zorginstituut Nederland. They have made the same decision independently of each other. That decision was then discussed again. In order to try to renegotiate the price that was to be acceptable to both countries, negotiations have been held again together. So the way of working was good. Except the decision was the same. Both decisions were negative. That's another matter. Belgian-Dutch cooperation was very good in the framework of the protocol agreement on the co-negotiation of orphan or innovative medicines. Because the manufacturer has so far refused to come out at an acceptable price, the medicine Orkambi for cystic fibrosis in our country and in the Netherlands cannot be refunded. That is why we have had to end the joint negotiations with Vertex. We have also made a joint communication. We have done the communication here and at the same time this has happened in the Netherlands. For this, the company was of course informed of the negative decisions. We want to make this medicine available to our patients and want to pay a suitable price, but at the same time we cannot punctuate the budget for a single medicine that has only a limited effect, and then we can no longer repay other medicines with a socially acceptable price. I have therefore left the door open and said that I was hoping that new negotiations could be opened. My Dutch homologist said that he hoped that the manufacturer would take responsibility and make us both an acceptable proposal, possibly in a new refund procedure. The manufacturer has been informed of the fact that, on the basis of new dates, he can submit a new file to the Healthcare Institute and the CTG, as regards the price. After a re-evaluation, negotiations may take place again, whether jointly or not with the Netherlands. If the manufacturer is willing to offer an acceptable price in the future, the current decision may be reviewed. Orkambi is indeed already being compensated in some countries. In some countries, medicines are automatically reimbursed without an assessment being made. This is the case in Germany, for example. In Luxembourg hospital medicines are automatically reimbursed, and therefore without prior assessment, and the price is taken over from Belgium. In France, the improvement compared to the existing care was considered to be minor and the product is reimbursed at 65% of the cost, i.e. 65% of EUR 170 000 per year. We should not be under any illusions that is not bearable for patients and their families. Belgian-Dutch cooperation was carried out within the framework of the protocol agreement. Internationally, there is a great deal of interest in cooperating in this area, but a European agreement on the reimbursement of medicines must first address the necessary political, legal and organisational challenges. All different countries have different formal procedures. Since it is not at present a desire to develop an additional multi-country reimbursement procedure because this is not within our systems, a joint negotiation must be carried out with respect for the various national formal procedures. With the cooperation of the Benelux countries, we aim to facilitate this process on a small scale and thus take a step towards wider international cooperation. In addition to the joint negotiation process, there are other co-operation projects within the Benelux initiative that may be accessible to other countries more quickly, such as joining forces on horizon scanning, information sharing and health technology assessment. This is being worked on for all kinds of medicines. Our way of working is in place, but the countries are not yet ready. The Nordic Alliance consists of five countries and I explained it to the Norwegian Embassy. At the most recent European informal Council in Malta, five Southern countries have drawn up a Memorandum of Understanding to set up such a system together. So I don't think it's impossible. If they get further in the Nordic Alliance and if the southern countries are inspired by our example, then we are already with 14 countries in the European Union and we are starting to gain some weight. We know that France and Germany are absolutely not open to accession. They are opposed to this. These are, of course, large countries, so we do not have much success there, but if we could negotiate with those 14 countries, that would put us in a much better position. In that respect, I am pleased that our example is inspiring for those countries. We give them explanations and explanations and have had bilateral contacts on them. It's already accelerated. If the cost-efficiency price is considered unacceptable by two different countries, I understand the emotion of patients. On paper, 3 % more lung function may not be that much, but if one does not breathe, 3 % may mean a world of difference. I found the effect on the level of exacerbations to be significant. Min 30 to 40 % exacerbations means less hospitalization, less heavy antibiotics, etc. For the quality of life, I think this is important. We have gone very far in negating it because it could still improve the quality of life for the patients concerned. We have been very bold in ignoring the price. If you know that health economists in our country consider EUR 40 000 acceptable for a qaly, then I would point out that there is still a world of difference of EUR 170 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u80	Madam Secretary, thank you for the full answer. I understand that there are openings to the firm on two fronts: firstly, to provide new or other evidence of the effectiveness and efficiency of the product not only in the short term but also in the longer term or, on the other hand, to reduce the price. If one of the two conditions is met, you want to negotiate further. I'll just sit around with the very high price for a qaly. However, when we look at the package of reimbursed medicines there are among them who have a higher qaly and that is sometimes difficult to explain to the people. Apart from that, I believe that we can agree on the general approach of our system to the CTG, which is very good. I repeat that there are certainly opportunities to renegotiate this if there are new elements in terms of efficiency or price.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u81	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. I note for the patients that the door is still ajar. I hope that crack can get a little wider. Am I right about Vertex being American?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u82	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u83	A second point I would like to mention concerns the fact that the case-by-case approach certainly does not solve the problem of increasingly expensive, innovative medicines. We really need a structural approach. I am pleased that you are making progress on international cooperation. I believe that we need to look further for a structural approach to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u84	Thank you, Madam Minister. First of all, I want to say that the Muco Association's appeal is legitimate. It represents patients and they hope to be able to benefit from this treatment when they are carriers of cystic fibrosis with particular genetic mutations. From a scientific point of view, your answer surprises me because you say both that there is added value and a limited effect, and you mention the need for a more in-depth study. Cohort studies are still under way. However, I believe that the elements available today are largely converging, even though cohort studies need to be analysed. The cost is all the more difficult because there is no transparency as to the justification of the price charged. It is legitimate for research investments to require a return. But the cost must be reasonable. So what I'm concerned about is that patients' access to the medicine is now compromised. This raises the question of what we're going to do with the patients in the studies. These are over. This means for them a break in access to treatment. This is an additional ethical problem. Without doing so with several countries - not just with the Netherlands - I can only motivate you to move forward in a wider way to find a solution. Finally, I am widening the debate a little bit: there has never been a real public, transparent debate with the citizens on the rules to be applied for the cost in relation to added value. Because we find ourselves in situations of refusal or reversal - especially for patients with acquired immunodeficiency - according to rules that have not been debated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u85	Perhaps the Minister will replicate that, but I remember the incident of little Victor and the Soliri story. As a result, a lot of things have been set in motion. I refer to the King Baudouin Foundation and others: there has been more debate. I am also pleased that the Minister has put a very strong emphasis on the approach that is being tried with the Netherlands and enlargement to the North and the South. I think this is the right course of action. In this sense, I am satisfied with your approach, Madam Minister, and I hope for the patients that you can reach reasonable agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u86	Madam President, I thank the Minister for her detailed and transparent response. Madam Minister, I welcome your approach under the Pact for the Future with pharmaceutical companies, which is to charge for cheaper medicines in order to unblock a budget to finance or repay innovative medicines. It's a number of drugs, not just one. You clearly explained to us that it was a little tricky to spend a specific budget on a single medicine. You have added, and this is fundamental, as Mrs Fonck rightly said, that the request and the questioning of the Muco association are entirely legitimate. Indeed, a 3% increase in Vems or 40% decrease in exacerbations is enormous for these patients when we know the pathology. These elements are extremely important, but the pharmaceutical company must also be called into question. Some experts claim that cost-effectiveness would be more logical and more acceptable with a 82% reduction in the price currently charged – from 170,000 to about 30,000 euros per patient per year – this is a lot and would be much more acceptable. It would be appropriate for the pharmaceutical company to consider further reflection on this subject. Ms. Fonck also raised the ethical issue in relation to patients who are enrolled in clinical studies, who are receiving medication and who will end up in the post-study without a sample and without being able to continue their treatment. I do not think it is up to the minister to address this ethical issue. Such clinical studies must be based on an agreement with society so that patients who have been placed under this revolutionary medication can continue to benefit from this treatment until it is reimbursed. This ethical problem is not the responsibility of the minister, but of the pharmaceutical company, which, for purely interested purposes, develops clinical studies that allow medical advances but also aim at the profitability of their products. Minister, I was very brief in asking you my question because I wanted to hear all the information you could give us. I believe that the solution lies in negotiation and the return to dialogue with this society, and I hear that you are open to it. The future is there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u87	Minister, my reactions are in part in line with those of my colleagues. What is disturbing, if not unacceptable at times, in this kind of situation is that, in the end, firms say they are working on patients with rare diseases, imposing exorbitant prices and trying to get that price. Of course, we can't accept it. This once again highlights the need to negotiate with as many European countries as possible, so that the pressure is greater, forcing these firms to have a much wider market price. This also calls into question – and I will come back to it on the occasion of another question – the way to negotiate, to keep a whole series of confidential data, especially in the price structure. I was surprised to hear many experts say that the share of research was ultimately minimal and largely subsidized and that the price charged was prohibitive. In our ways of negotiating through the conventions Article 81, etc., these elements are not highlighted. We must be able to change this in the respect of patients who cannot be the "toy" of negotiations that may not succeed. I hear the negotiations can resume. I hope so for these patients and their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u88	Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is apologised for her question No 18375.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u89	Minister, according to one article, just under 500 complaints against the Mirena IUD were filed with the Medicines Agency in Belgium. Women report side effects such as stomach aches and major migraines. A health survey would have been launched at European level. Minister, to what extent is your department aware of this problem? Can you give me more information about this? Are these problems due to a lack of manufacturing or administration by those who are capable of laying these IUDs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u90	Mrs Jadin, as you know, Mirena has been an intrauterine device authorized in Belgium for more than twenty years. It contains levonorgestrel, a progestative hormone also contained in new oral contraceptives. Although the progestative effects of Mirena are mainly local, i.e. intrauterine, part of the levonorgestrel released by the intrauterine device also passes through the bloodstream and can therefore lead to adverse systemic effects, such as depression and migraines. It's known, and it happens when you take the pill too. These effects are actually mentioned in the package leaflets for Mirena and other levonorgestrel-based intrauterine devices. Package leaflets for medicinal products marketed in Belgium and therefore hormonal intrauterine devices are available for everyone on the website of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AFMPS). Therefore, patients may be informed at any time about the medication they are prescribed even if they are not in possession of the carton of the medicine. The French agency, ANSM, notified the AFMPS on 12 May on its website of a point of information concerning the recent finding of an increase in reports of adverse reactions likely to be related to Mirena. In the pharmacovigilance database managed by the European Medicines Agency (EMA), approximately 500 reports of adverse events in Belgium are associated with the Mirena IUD. These reports cover all kinds of adverse reactions, including placement problems, spontaneous removals from the IUD, etc. Given the media interest, the AFMPS has also recorded an increase in statements in recent days. As with all medicinal products, adverse reactions associated with the use of levonorgestrel-based intrauterine devices are subject to pharmacovigilance and signal monitoring. Some adverse reactions reported by patients but not yet mentioned in the package leaflets of hormonal intrauterine devices such as panic attacks, sleep disorders, agitation are a signal that is currently being evaluated by EMA. The results of this analysis are expected from June 2017. In February 2016, while new information on the risk of uterine perforation was made available for both hormonal intrauterine devices and non-hormonal devices, direct communication was sent to Belgian gynaecologists under the authority of AFMPS. This communication recommended, inter alia, that when prescribing a contraceptive, advice given to patients should include information on contraceptive efficacy but also on the risks associated with available contraceptive options as described in the summary of product characteristics. In addition, it was recalled that users of intrauterine devices must attend a monitoring visit four to twelve weeks after the installation but also at least once a year. Some people think they're safe for three to five years. No, we have to do the checks. It is a good thing that the EMA is examining all complaints. It is very likely that we will change the information currently contained in the notices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for this very detailed answer. Indeed, I believe that there may be several factors that will play. This type of IUD has been proposed by gynaecologists for more than 20 years. He must have proven himself. Perhaps there are problems with application, use or control? We will therefore see once things have been examined by the European Medicines Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u92	Madam Minister, since the obligation of Minister Onkelinx for pharmacists in 2012, to deliver the cheapest brand for each antibiotic and antifungal prescription of each active substance, all brand names, including mostly more expensive originals, reduced their prices to the level of the cheapest generic product. That has brought in tens of millions of euros, money that we have been paying too much for all these years since those products were patented. The producers reduced their prices to the level of the cheapest product, but not lower, so that all medicines could be delivered as cheapest, but Belgian low-priced medicines still remain two to six times more expensive than Dutch low-priced medicines. Since the introduction of that measure, it is therefore no longer the doctor who decides which brand name will be delivered from a particular antibiotic. It is the pharmacist who decides, because he has to deliver the cheapest antibiotic, but the brands are all just as cheap now. As a perverse consequence, the pharmaceutical companies have shifted their marketing from the doctors to the pharmacists. For antibiotics they offer the pharmacist discounts, for example buy four boxes and get five. The pharmacist then increases his profit margin by 20%, at the expense of the RIZIV and the patient. In reply to my written question No. 1386 confirmed to you that these practices are unlawful. You referred to the law on medicines. I quote the law, which you quoted in your reply to my written question: "It is prohibited, in the context of the supply, prescription, delivery or administration of medicinal products, to offer, offer or grant premiums or benefits in cash or in kind, directly or indirectly, to wholesalers, intermediaries, persons who may prescribe, supply or administer medicinal products, and to institutions where prescribing, delivering or administering medicinal products takes place." However, you do not announce any further steps or measures. So I ask the question again. Madam Secretary, are you aware of such discounts from pharmaceutical companies for pharmacists? Are you prepared to prohibit and strictly monitor these practices to the detriment of RIZIV immediately? In the Netherlands, a form of tender was introduced by health insurers in order to put an end to the abusive discount practices of pharmaceutical companies in relation to pharmacists. Are you prepared to investigate such a system with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u93	Mr Hedebouw, you say you have not been given an explanation, but you have only read a part of the answer. It also states that, on the other hand, there is no obstacle to the pharmaceutical companies applying lower prices than those awarded to them outside the company. On the one hand, a legal provision prohibiting these discounts would be contrary to Belgian competition rules and, on the other hand, contrary to the provisions of the Treaty of the European Union. I have also replied to you that you must turn to my colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs, for that is within his competence. Under Article 94 of the European Directive 2001/83, Article 10 of the pharmaceutical law of 25 March 1964 does not affect existing measures or commercial practices relating to prices, margins and discounts. In order to assess whether a percentage and/or an amount of a discount complies with the legal provisions, my services are not competent at the FAGG, but rather the FPS Economy, as you were informed in the answer to your written question. My services do check whether the discounts are granted without distinction, in a transparent and objective manner. They may not constitute a premium or benefit within the meaning of Article 10 of the Law on Medicinal Products of 25 March 1964.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u94	Minister, as I understand it, there is no collaboration between the FPS Economy and INAMI. However, many examples of rebates exist and this is growing. If I asked you a second time the question, it's to know if you yourself are collecting these testimonials. INAMI suffers large losses. It is not just the economic aspect of competition in European rules. You yourself say it's illegal. I think the Minister of Health could, however, intervene on such a matter, especially since many of the testimonies come back to us, according to which this marketing is precisely developing towards pharmacies, since it is no longer the doctors who can decide. It is important that the services of your administration can guarantee this type of measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u95	Madam Minister, I have already asked several questions on this subject and related issues, such as the audit at the district health centres. This is mainly about the audit at the general practitioners' watch stations. The audit is now complete, but it seems that the results are not yet released. The sector sits, understandably, on hot coal and they e-mail and call us regularly. Firstly, is there any reason why the results and decisions of the audit cannot yet be released? Secondly, does this have anything to do with the task force looking at these GPs in a broader range of non-planable care? Thirdly, when can the results be released?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u96	Fourthly, have any proposals been made to change the policy on sentries? For the rest, I had exactly the same questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u97	Minister, my findings are the same. What's the status of this audit? Is it over? If so, when can we get the conclusions? Have any leads been cleared yet? Which physician associations were consulted to conduct this audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u98	Madam Secretary, one of the savings measures is the freezing of the budget for GPs. The GP's guards were created a few years ago to organise the guards for GPs more efficiently and pleasantly during the weekend. In the meantime, most regions have such a general practitioner's post. So it's a success. The GPs are one of the most important developments in the last ten years to make the GP's job more attractive for young graduates. Young graduate doctors are less often on watch and if they are on watch, they are never alone. A lot of our friends in GPs told us that. This improvement compared with the past was certainly necessary, because there is a large shortage of young general practitioners. A lot of doctors retire and aren't being replaced. Another positive consequence of GPs is that they lower the threshold for patients to consult the GP of watch first, if they have a medical problem at night or at weekends. A lot of the sick went straight to the emergency room, while the GP could have helped them perfectly. In addition, some watch stations work with a generalised third-payer system to keep the financial threshold low. A consultation with the GP on hold on the weekend costs more than 50 euros, which sometimes means that patients can quickly call on the emergency service, where they will only be sent the invoice afterwards. Studies showed that many emergency patients did not need an emergency doctor. This costs a lot of money to health care, as there are quite a lot of investigations being carried out on emergency services very quickly. In addition, the KCE recommends that, in addition to emergency services, a GP permanence of 24/24 and 7/7 should be provided on hospital sites. It must be able to operate autonomously from the hospital, under the coordination of a local general practitioner. Firstly, what is the state of play regarding the audit of general practitioners' guards? Secondly, how do you view the KCE's proposal to include a 24/24 and 7/7 GP permanence on hospital sites? Thirdly, are you prepared to investigate to make the consultation of a general practitioner cheaper on weekends, or to generalise the third payment scheme, in order to lower the financial threshold and to see fewer patients drawn to the emergency service?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u99	The audit was indeed very necessary. The results and decisions of the audit form the basis for future policy on GPs. I would remind you that they have actually started out as pilot projects, which have duplicated themselves, even though there is still no full coverage of the territory. There are large, small and medium-sized GPs who do not all work equally cost-effectively, and believe me, there are great differences between them. If we want to roll out the GPs across our territory, we must, firstly, be sure that there is quality and continuity in the provision of assistance and, secondly, that there is also cost-effective work. That's why that audit happened, and that's why there was that temporary freeze. In the last few months, my policy cell, together with the RIZIV, has transformed the results and decisions into a new vision of the ways in which the projects operate and the corresponding funding system. The aim was to ensure that the publication of the new vision of the future would follow the publication of the results of the audit in the short term. The new vision of GPs has indeed come about as part of the global vision of non-planable care, albeit initially not in the task force, but through my policy cell in collaboration with the RIZIV. In doing so, constant attention was paid to the optimal integration of the sentries' system into the larger system of non-planable care. So yes, cooperation with the emergency services was also looked at. Should or can the sentries be partly integrated into the emergency services, as is the case at St.Jan Bruges today? I've been to that service, but it's not possible to work in all places. What formulas do you need? Mr. Hedebouw, I've been here 18 years. In 1999, too many sick people went to the emergency services. At the time, it was Minister Vandenbroucke, who was being questioned about this. He then tried, among other things, to introduce a large fee for doctors on emergency services. You say it's a recent problem, but it's a problem that's been dragging on for a long time. That's why we need to look at it in the bigger picture. On 9 June, 30 June and 7 July, meetings of the Task Force on non-planable care will be organised, covering, respectively, the results of the audit, the state of play of the triage system through 1733 and the new policy on GPs. Mrs Gerkens, I am ready to answer all the questions on this issue once the audit has been analysed by my services and discussed within the Task Force. You asked me what doctor associations we worked with. As you know, the report is based on a survey of all duty stations. They were all contacted, but not all responded. However, the number of sent in its data is significant. It was therefore possible to continue with this work. In principle, all medical associations could make a contribution, although they had not been questioned as such. The intention is, of course, that new rules should apply to everyone, whether they have cooperated or not. Some general practitioners' guards seem to be able to work cost-effectively and others not at all. In the long term, we must ensure that this is more streamlined. Then we can get the money out of there to set up even more sentries at the current pace. In any case, there are enormous differences in investment in vehicles, drivers, accommodation, opening hours, continuity of training, who is there and many other things. We need to work on that. Moreover, some sentries operate entirely on their own, others work well with emergency services, others are already connected to a hospital. That is not necessary; I believe that we can work with a mix of formulas, but then they all have to work cost-efficiently. That exercise really should have happened a long time ago. She would have been much less difficult. But well, it is what it is; because it has never been done, it must now be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u100	Madam Secretary, Friday is 9 June. The industry will then know the results, and then we will hear the follow-up. In any case, I assume that in addition to these results, the new policy will also be explained and we will be able to take steps forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u101	Madam Secretary, we are just too early with our questions. With regard to the reason for the audit, you are absolutely right. I think that the audit is a very good thing, especially in terms of cost efficiency. There is certainly a need for a real vision of the GPs, especially as regards their link to non-planable care and emergency services and how watch stations define their function. We need to cut some buttons. I understand that you have to wait for the audit to do so, but that is directly linked to the fact that you will then have to come up with a proposal that can be discussed here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u102	Minister, we look forward to the results of this audit and, above all, the political and practical conclusions that you will draw from it. We can join you on the need for collaboration and portability. It's important. This generalist approach must be maintained. We need an approach that takes time. I am of course committed to coming back to the subject once we have heard your guidelines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u103	(...) In fact, it could be planned, by the time of the holidays, either after the conclusions or after the working group which has discussed them again, to discuss these issues. Which will save us all from having to ask questions. I am not going to expand, since we will soon have more precise information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u104	Mrs Fonck, I give you the floor to Question No 18519 on the rights of the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u105	Madam Chair, I propose to turn this question into a written question if I can quickly have the written answer from the minister. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u106	Minister, I have already had the opportunity to ask you many times about the safety of doctors, and especially of general practitioners. I could expand on my point, since attacks are also taking place in the hospital. On the other hand, other care providers, such as nurses, kines, etc., can also be assaulted and for them, unfortunately, insecurity remains real. We referred earlier to the conduct of a survey of general practitioners, organized by the Order of Physicians, in collaboration with the VUB. You said that once the results of the survey were available, the Working Group on the Safety of Caregivers, established within the Internal FPS, would reconvene to formulate the necessary policy proposals. The investigation was opened until 25 April 2017. I had already tabled the question a few weeks ago. Madam Minister, I would obviously like to have the results of this investigation conducted by the College of Physicians and the VUB. Can we get them? Could you tell us about the data collected through the contact point for acts of violence, created by the Order? I got some numbers, but they weren't recent. I imagine that the latest figures have been given to you; I would like to know about them. It seems to me that we need to go further on the measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u107	Ms. Fonck, this survey is part of the work of the working group set up by the Internal FPS in the context of provider safety. As you know, the objective of this working group is to improve the situation of general practitioners and other health professionals who work outside the hospital. This working group took the initiative to conduct a survey of general practitioners under the direction of the VUB and the Order of Physicians. I have therefore entrusted my administration with the task of advertising it, through the online publication of a call to encourage participation in this survey. The investigation was closed on 25 April. The VUB is currently processing the data. The presentation of the results is scheduled for 21 June. I will obviously ask the VUB and the Order of Physicians to inform me later on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u108	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We will therefore wait until 21 June. Could you also provide us with the different data? This seems important to me in the interests of transparency in administrative documents. Progress has also been made. I am thinking, for example, of calling via the 112 app on smartphones in case of aggression. However, I would like these risks to be anticipated upstream where possible. I would therefore like once again to relay a proposal which I believe is important and which aims to establish a list of patients at risk of violent slippage, so that the said patients are received in the firm only in conditions of strict security. This obviously requires a good articulation and collaboration with the local police area, with the doctor's guard area, but also with the public prosecutor's office. I have contacted the Ministers of Justice, the Interior and the Minister of Health you are. None of you objected to my proposal. However, as several months have passed, I would like once again to plead in favour of this proposal. 112 concerns the ongoing attacks. But we know that patients are at a significant risk. We should be able to anticipate the attacks. This will not always be possible, but if we could anticipate a whole series of attacks, it would be very positive for the safety of all providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, questions Nos 18554 and 18555 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, questions No 18566 by Mrs Karin Jirofllée and No 18622 by Mrs Anne Dedry are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u110	Madam Minister, by order of 8 December 2016, the Council of State annulled the Royal Decree of 2 April 2014 setting out the standards to be met by a child care programme in order to be approved, on the ground that certain provisions of this Royal Decree have not been the subject of an opinion of the National Council of Hospital Institutions, contrary to Article 12 of the Coordinated Act of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care facilities. However, this programme is currently being implemented in some hospitals or in the process of being implemented and is already well advanced in other institutions. Since 1 July 2014, following the sixth reform of the State, the Communities have been competent to define the standards to be met by the care programmes in order to be approved, with the exception of the issues of financing exploitation and programming, two aspects reserved for the federal authority. That being said, it is still a global framework, with a provision that is cancelled while hospitals have been applying it for the past two years. Minister, have you read this decision of the Council of State? What follow-up do you intend to give? This is now within the competence of the Communities, whereas in the past it was not. We must therefore find a solution to this complex situation in order to maintain the continuity of the quality care that we must provide to our children, without penalising the teams that have mobilized heavily to set up these important care programmes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u111	Mrs Fonck, we know the decision of the Council of State and, as you point out, the competence for the promulgation of accreditation standards for hospital care programmes has been transferred to the Communities. It is therefore up to the Communities, not the federal authority, to compensate for the impact of the annulment judgment of the Council of State. Of course, my services are always willing, at the request of a Community, to participate in the development of a solution. The Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health seems to me to be the appropriate platform for addressing this issue and for developing common solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u112	Minister, thank you for your answers. Given the federal state's full responsibility for the failure to comply with the legislation that led to the cancellation of the Council of State, an inter-ministerial conference discussion should be held. Many have invested in this paediatric care program. If things remain as they are, it is not correct with respect to the teams in place. I therefore plead that progress should be made so as not to penalize those who have advanced and who have complied with the royal decree made by the federal government in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u113	Questions No 18582, No 18598, No 18599 and No 18600 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp are postponed. Joined Questions No 18604 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle, No 18631 by Mrs Catherine Fonck, No 18766 by Mrs Valérie Van Peel, No 18970 by Mrs Monica De Coninck and No 19092 by Mr Raoul Hedebouw are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u114	Madam President, Minister, the question I put is a long one with many details, but in view of the hour, I shall now confine myself to the summary. Of course, we are all in favour of digitalisation, but in the pharmaceutical sector this evolution is rather worrying. Many prescription-free medicines and health products are offered online, often also by non-approved online chemists. It is very difficult for consumers to tell or find the difference, to know whether or not it is an approved pharmacist. The dangers are clear: the safety, the authenticity of the medicines, the quality of the medicines; we should not draw a picture of them. We also know the phenomenon of pirate websites, also from abroad. Madam Secretary, are you carrying out checks on the sale of online medicines? If yes, what checks? How far do they go? Are there many infringements of the existing rules being detected? Do you intend to tackle more strictly the sale of prescription-free medicines via the Internet or not? My question contains some examples, some of which are of some concern. Do you think it should be possible to offer prescription-free medicines, such as Ibuprofen and Naproxen, on the Internet? Do you have any plans to address the pirate websites? How do you generally see the further digitisation of the pharmacists sector evolving, taking into account the existing problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u115	The services at the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (FAGG) follow up on the problem. Today, only pharmacies open to the public may offer prescription-free medicinal products for human use for sale on the Internet, under conditions laid down by law. They must register with the pharmaceutical agency and be monitored by the FAGG. They should also use the official EU logo for Internet pharmacies. Inspectors of the Agency shall carry out checks on the pharmacy websites. As regards the fight against illegal Internet sites, it is in particular the Special Investigation Unit (SOE) of the Directorate-General for Inspection that intervenes. Once the SOE is aware of illegal sites that offer medicines for sale, sometimes with free delivery, but usually subject to prescription, it will take all measures to put an end to this within the limits of its powers and in close cooperation with the other national or international institutions fighting against the same problem. The checks are to verify whether the site is illegal and whether the medicines offered for sale are illegal or if they were originally legal, but stolen or evaded in the legal circuit. The FAGG is directly competent for Belgian players and cooperates, if necessary, with the competent authorities of other Member States of the European Union and other foreign authorities. When the FAGG intervenes itself, given that administrative measures are often insufficient, it draws up a report to the attention of the King's Attorney who is the only one empowered to close a website or to block access for Belgian citizens. The checks are continuously and generally dependent on external complaints, but also on findings of the FAGG itself. In the fight against illegal sites, the FAGG works closely with both domestic and foreign authorities such as customs, but also with the multidisciplinary hormone cell, other competent authorities and Interpol, for example for Operation Pangea. The FAGG is aware that illegal sites offering non-regulatory medicinal products for sale also pose a major risk to public health and therefore takes the same measures as for illegal sites offering prescription drugs for sale. To this end, the FAGG has already conducted campaigns to make patients aware of the dangers of buying medicines on illegal sites. That's the campaign "A cure isn't candy pie." Today, in Belgium, all prescription-free medicines are already available through legal Internet Pharmacies, in the framework of harmonised European legislation. I note that some of Ibuprofen's packaging is subject to a prescription and therefore cannot be sold via Internet pharmacies, just like Naproxen, which is still subject to prescription. The FAGG has not yet been confronted with the problem of hacked legal Belgian sites. Piracy of websites is, by the way, the responsibility of the FPS Economy and of my colleague, the Minister of Economy, Minister Peeters. The multi-annual framework of pharmacists, signed by the pharmacy sector and myself in March 2017, provides for a possible extension of the range of medicines to prescription medicines that could be offered on Belgian pharmacy websites. We are working on the legislation for this. It is clear that all the obligations the pharmacist has in his pharmacy in terms of the quality of medicines, but also in terms of pharmaceutical care for the patient, will be maintained and, if necessary, even stricter. It was not until March that a comparison was found to prevent such practices from occurring and people from looking for illegal websites. That is why it has been decided to draw up legislation which would also allow prescription medication to be ordered via Internet sites. There are, of course, requirements of, firstly, identification, secondly, therapeutic relationship, and, thirdly, patient safety. That is what we are now working on with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u116	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. We will soon, perhaps within a few months, be presented with that bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u117	We have to start from scratch.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u118	There will probably be some good examples abroad, where this has already been arranged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u119	It must also fit into our legislation. They're working on it, of course. However, saying that it will be there next month would be too optimistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u120	I understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u121	With my colleague from your party, the minister, I do have a little bargaining to offer you. I propose to turn my questions Nos. 18608 and 18609 into written questions. Since Mr. Janssens is here for the inquiry into the reimbursement of cochlear implants and has waited very patiently to be able to file his document, I would like to know if I can make my inquiry now. Then I stop there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u122	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u123	I don't have the answer. I have answers only to agenda item 51. It's simple! These are questions that have been added. This is the question under agenda item 60 and an inquiry has been added.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u124	It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u125	This question requires a technical answer and we did not get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u126	Mrs Fonck, you can put your inquiry at the next meeting. Questions Nos 18608 and 18609 by Mrs Fonck are therefore transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 1824 and 18625 by Mrs Muylle and No 18645 by Mrs Jadin are also transformed into written questions. The same applies to question No 18700 by Mrs Muylle. The items on agenda item 32 (Mr Senesael's No 18721, Mrs Jiroflée's No 18745 and Mr Hedebouw's No 19091) were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u127	My question may have some mistakes. On 15 May, you announced your willingness to release a budget of €1,170,000 for the support of transgender people in transition, in the spirit of the law that is moving towards self-determination of the people concerned, in particular by facilitating administrative procedures and access to health care. Psychiatric follow-up of these persons was mandatory in order to change identity. For access to care, I would like to know whether psychiatric follow-up to access different treatments remains an obligation. If so, would it not be time to transform it into psychosocial follow-up, so as to remove transsexuality from the field of psychiatry? Indeed, masculine hormonal treatment is much more expensive than feminizing treatment. Access to reimbursement still depends on a psychiatric certificate. If the latter remains in circumstances, for what reasons? Moreover, why are the costs of these treatments so different? As far as feminizing treatment is concerned, we have been informed by some witnesses of the obligation to take cyproterone acetate for transgender people in transition, without any other possible choice. But this product is an artificial progestative hormone that leads to chemical castration. We therefore find ourselves in contradiction with human rights. The same applies to the requirement to be sterilized within 15 to 18 months of the first testosterone injections. Legislative changes on the change of administrative identity have removed the requirement for psychiatric treatment and certification. I'd like to take stock with you about access to treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u128	I'm a little surprised at your question. I think you've been misinformed. First, in our country, there is no mandatory psychiatric follow-up for transgender patients. Rather, there was a lack of psychiatric follow-up. With regard to the so-called "depsychiatrization" of the phenomenon of transidentity, I can only confirm that this is a positive social development in which the policy of our government is largely in keeping. I am thinking in particular of the new law on transgenderes and the next convention which will take account of psychosocial support needs. My goal, through this convention, was to meet the expectations of transgender men and women in a reasonable manner. Secondly, you ask me why male hormones are more expensive than female hormones. This is a commercial phenomenon. In addition, there are other factors that make the life of a transgender woman more expensive, such as hair removal. Once from a legal point of view, one is considered to be male, it is possible to receive a refund for male hormones. On the other hand, you claim that by having a mandatory psychiatric certificate, there could be a refund of male hormones. That's completely wrong! It is necessary to be legally recognized as male and to have a lack of hormones attested by an endocrinologist, urologist or pediatrician. Indeed, we have more and more children involved. Next, you talk about cyproterone acetate, an anti-androgen or a product to block the functioning of testosterone, which can therefore be useful during the transition period of a transgender woman. Until now, this medicine is the only one that allows for a specific reimbursement, but it requires the single introduction of a medical report drawn up simultaneously by a physician specialist in psychiatry and a doctor specialist in endocrinology, who ensure the therapeutic follow-up. However, there can never be an obligation to take this medicine for any reason. I do not understand at all where you are talking about this, let alone what it would have to do with human rights, since this problem does not exist. With regard to compulsory sterilization before starting testosterone treatment, I can answer categorically that fortunately, in this country, no one can ever be forced to be sterilized. We have already had this debate for other vulnerable groups: disabled people or people with mental disorders. We can't force them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u129	But if I asked you questions, it was because I have read a series of reports and studies from different associations as well as testimonies that convey these realities and concerns. With the new law to allow change of identity without the obligation to change physical sex, it was an opportunity to verify and possibly encourage consistency. In the testimonies I receive – and I can send you the various associations that relayed them – there is this requirement of psychiatric certification to have the reimbursement of hormonal care and, apparently, some practitioners impose treatment via cyproterone acetate. I will send you these testimonies so that you can act, since this practice is not allowed. Moreover, in the testimonies, there is a recurring question of the sterilization required. Of course, there is always the power of the practitioner vis-à-vis his patient that can go beyond the actual legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic683x.u130	We're stopping our work. We have now come to agenda item 33. We shall start again next time with the inquiry No. 225 by Mrs Fonck and then we shall resume with the questions postponed.
