ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, the recurrent BRAIN.be research programme is approaching the end of its first phase. The aim of this Framework Programme is to improve interdisciplinary cooperation between the federal departments and the Federal Scientific Institutions in a coherent and sustainable manner. As the first phase of the programme is completed this year, new policy priorities need to be discussed and decided. I have the following questions. Firstly, are the discussions on the second phase of the research programme ongoing? Secondly, what policy priorities do you place within your powers? Thirdly, will you pay particular attention to research on climate challenges? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u2	Madam President, I have the honour to reply to the honourable Member as follows. Since the draft of the new federal framework programme for research to follow up on the BRAIN.be programme was neither discussed at an inter-kabinets meeting nor the subject of decision-making within the Council of Ministers, it is clear that the research priorities of that future new research programme have not yet been discussed with my colleagues. Nevertheless, I can confirm that my administrations, like the other federal administrations, were consulted by BELSPO and involved in the preparation of the proposal that Mrs Demir should shortly submit to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u3	Minister, we recently learned that our French neighbour had greatly increased its consumption of SP95-E10. This car fuel has up to 10% plant ethanol and is distributed to over 11,000 gas stations. This fuel is compatible with 97% of gasoline-powered vehicles and cheaper. Produced with the help of 50,000 beet, wheat and maize growers, the E10 tends to become the first gasoline sold in France. Its interest is that it significantly reduces CO2 emissions and foreshadows the entry into the market of fuels composed of even more ethanol, such as E85 and ED95, which have 85% and 95%, respectively, of plant ethanol. In Belgium, it has been available since January 2017, almost a year. Minister, do you have any figures as to how many Belgian consumers have decided to use and buy this type of more environmentally friendly fuel on a regular basis? On this year's basis, do you perceive in Belgium a resounding and enthusiasm as important as in France? Do you have any figures on the use of this biofuel compared to other conventional fuels available in trade? Do you also have data on the impact of the marketing of this fuel on Belgian purchasing power? How will you qualify this impact? Have discussions ever taken place to expand the commercialization of bioethanol fuels richer than E10, such as E85 and ED95? France started it this year. When do you plan to extend these biofuels to the Belgian market? Do you think this can be done in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u4	Dear colleague, since January 1 of this year, there have been two types of gasoline, 95E10 and 98E5. Gasoline consumption 95E10 currently varies between 77 and 81% of total petrol consumption on the Belgian market. Gasoline 98E5 is used for older vehicles and equipment not capable of operating with 95E10 petrol. That makes sense. In less than a year, 95E10 gasoline became the first gasoline sold in Belgium. Moreover, Europe sees the Belgian example as a pioneering example. Belgium is also one of the first Member States to have successfully placed 95E10 on the market. This was recently highlighted in the latest concerted action organised by the European Commission. I preceded the paragraph that was written to me. What I am talking about at the level of the European Commission is the good Belgian newsletter – I still like to emphasise it, it is so rare – granted by the Energy Commissioners and, more precisely, the Energy Commissioner and Vice-President of the Commission, who have done this laudative directly to me regarding Belgium's action on biofuels. As regards the impact of the placing of 95E10 on the market on the price and therefore on the purchasing power of households, the price is negligible and is comparable to a steady increase or decrease observed during the fluctuation of oil products in the international market. In order to achieve the 10% target of renewable energy in the transport sector, it was decided to increase the incorporation of biofuels to 8.5% of energy in 2020. Biofuels are the only renewable source sufficiently developed and currently available in the transport sector in relation to other types of renewable energy, such as biogas or green electricity. The increase in the contribution of biofuels to the transport sector in 2020 will result in the exploration of other types of products that are more environmentally friendly. Due to technical constraints, including engine compatibility and related guarantees, there is currently no possibility of placing E85 and ED95 on the Belgian market. On the other hand, discussions are under way at the technical level to explore the possibilities of placing E20 gasoline on the market, with 20% bioethanol.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u5	Thank you. We will follow developments on the market. Please confirm that Belgium has been a good student.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u6	Madam Minister, a missive co-signed by about 100 Belgian doctors has recently been published concerning the air we breathe. They stress once again in this one that not only the air we breathe is unhealthy and dangerous. The problem would be so serious that it would be able to transmit lung cancer to non-smokers, but also to reduce life expectancy, which results in at least 632 premature deaths per year. Doctors point to insufficient policy. My questions are as follows. What did you provide as an answer to your level to these many doctors? You have repeatedly mentioned measures to improve air quality such as the reform of company car policy, the mobility budget, or the RER. But we see nothing coming about it. What progress has been made in this area in consultation with Mr Bellot? What other concrete solutions do you envisage at the federal level? Are new measures envisaged to finally meet European requirements? You also mentioned regular consultations with the Regions, notably in the framework of the Energy Pact, the National Energy-Climate 2030 Plan and the Transport Plan 2017-2020. You have made it possible to conclude a cooperation agreement with the Regions in the context of the transposition of the new directive on national emission ceilings, which will include new federal measures. Can you tell us more about the progress of this agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u7	Dear colleague, thank you for this important issue which has very dense ramifications. I am not aware of any reply that would have been given to any letter. I don't remember getting it. On the other hand, I have already had regular talks in committee and with my colleague Maggie De Block on these issues. For having been questioned first by Mrs. Dedry, on several occasions. You know, I always have to send her back to others. That's kind of what I have to do today. However, there is still a reflection within the administration, but it should emerge in a structural way and at last we should be able to deal with this problem, of which we may not yet see all the ramifications. This federal government has already taken measures, such as the phasing out, via excises, of the diesel pump advantage, the reform of the company vehicle system, which marks a reversal of the trend in the purchase of vehicles. The choices are increasingly being made for more environmentally friendly vehicles or alternative modes of transport. For the details of these measures, I refer you to my colleagues, the Minister of Finance, and for the monitoring of registrations and environmental performance of road parks, to my colleagues from the three Regions. With regard to federal investments in mobility, the Transport Plan, the finalization of the RER and the details of the investment plan, you have probably already been able to question my colleague François Bellot, but I would refer you back to that. That is where I want to show that this is all about a lot of skills, but if I could already develop a foundation with the Minister of Health, that would be a good starting point. Policy options to contribute to the efforts of the Regions include further tax reform, consistent with regional policies, and the definition of ways to improve the environmental performance of motorised machinery, whether road or non-road. And, in the context of the single market, coming in particular directly from the Commission installed at the time of the VW scandal, different ways of improving the energy mix are to be taken into account. We are here in the hot news because, together with the four energy ministers, we have developed, on energy and climate axes, a vision that we have just passed on to the various governments in this country. These various avenues will be included in a cooperation agreement currently being negotiated with the Regions in the context of the transposition of the new European Directive on national emission ceilings 2016/2284/EU. This cooperation agreement will also allow us to combine these policies even better while the competences are diversified and compartmentalised between the various institutions in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. The problem is serious. The impact is great. The sources of problems are varied. As you mentioned, a cross-cutting floor of intervention must be set up at the level of the various ministries. It is an important coordination work that needs to be done. That said, on a personal basis, I think that at present we can make an effort to raise consumer awareness, because the problems we are talking about are still very much related to consumption. The behaviour of consumers must necessarily be changed at all levels, each at home, on a day-to-day basis and on a daily basis. We need to communicate. I think you can do it, that your colleagues can do it, that each of us has to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u9	It is true that we have an interest in all of us, at all levels, including at the local level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u10	Minister, according to a recent Greenpeace report, shipments of timber from Amazonia were exported to several countries by a Brazilian company accused of being involved in the massacre of nine peasants on 19 April. The organisation also pins importing companies in Belgium, which I cannot quote. In particular, it has two wood-importing companies. According to Greenpeace, our government would not control this area enough. Do you confirm the information contained in this report and can you give us more information about it? Has an investigation been initiated into this issue? A budget to step up controls on the country's timber importing companies has already been released by the government, as you mentioned. Can you inform us about the additional measures developed on this issue and their timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a worrying issue on which I have already had many times the opportunity to speak in committee, particularly under the impetus of our President, who is rightly interested in it. That is why, from the outset, I have become aware of the indigence of the control department in terms of human resources and of the obligation to ensure that the steering wheel of controls at federal level is considerably increased in relation to the import of wood, in the context of and in compliance with European standards. At my request at the federal level and on my own budget, we were able to move from half an inspector to eight inspectors. It's not bad! The half-inspector is now part of my office. I have not deprived anyone and I am at the heart of the knowledge of the subject. I confirm that the planning for the increase in the number of controls under the EU Timber Regulation (EUTR) is proceeding as planned. It took me two years to get there. I have foreseen that, at the beginning of September, eight inspectors have been hired, two of whom will spend half of their time monitoring the EUTR with the support of their fellow inspectors and the person responsible for the overall monitoring of wood policy. They have undergone intensive training, including a brief practical course in the Netherlands with their Dutch colleagues - the port of Rotterdam being extremely concerned. These inspectors began their inspections at the end of November. Starting in 2018, they will carry out 50 to 100 checks per year according to estimates. In terms of controls, this brings us to the first half of the European peloton. In relation to controls, any complaint from anyone is verified and followed by the federal control staff, including Greenpeace's complaint. I'm doing an important parenthesis here. Taking into account the problematic situation of wood and its legal or non-legal quality at the entrance of our borders, mainly in the port of Antwerp, I wanted to bring together representatives of companies and NGOs to exchange information and best practices. In addition to dysfunctional and unscrupulous companies, and it is highly reprehensible, there are companies that work well and that put a point of honour in complying with the regulations. I had the opportunity to visit one in the port of Antwerp almost two years ago. Greenpeace did not want to join the charter. I find this regrettable. I have once again had the opportunity to talk to them on social networks about this, after their denunciation in the framework you specify. I do not understand this attitude, as they claim that the condition for them to join in this fundamental societal work was that the inspectors' steering wheel should be greatly expanded - which has been done. I don't see why, except for reasons of Greenpeace visibility, they wouldn't work with us. I will continue through you, and whenever I can, to reach out and confirm the need for cooperation. I'm going on with my answer. The controls are conducted according to a regularly updated inspection plan, as we adapt to the engineering of unscrupulous importers. As I have told you, complaints or useful information from third parties are always taken seriously and treated as a matter of priority. This also applies to Greenpeace, which is no less well treated than the others. As a result of this complaint, we obviously opened an investigation. The owner of a sawmill in the Brazilian Amazon is indeed associated with an illegal timber trade. Nine murders have been reported in connection with this activity. Under the EUTR, importers placing wood products on the European market must ensure that the risk of illegally harvested wood is negligible. I'm talking about shaped products, not raw wood. The Greenpeace report states that European timber importers from the sawmill in question do not operate in accordance with the EUTR. The current investigation will have to determine whether this is the case and the degree of involvement of the two Belgian importers cited in this investigation. You may know that a first inspection visit was scheduled this month. At the moment I'm talking to you, maybe she's already been led. I don't know. We will, of course, have the opportunity to return.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for your very interesting answer. The situation in Brazil is serious, dramatic and dangerous. Mrs. President spoke about it a few days ago. Of course, these are not problems that can be solved here. In any case, by controlling imports, consumption can be reduced. I hope to help counter this criminal activity in Brazil. I guess you've smartly kept half-time. Indeed, if he has fewer hours of work than others, I imagine it will be because he is the best person he will serve as a resource person, not only within your office, but also for the purpose of training inspectors. Inspection per se is a complicated task, particularly in terms of methodology and the establishment of evaluation criteria. In this regard, it would be appropriate to review the assessment statistics of inspectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u13	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u14	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u15	We obviously received the inspectors who arrived in September. Even before I left the administration, I had left them all the accumulated knowledge. Besides, I wasn't alone. DG Environment has such a structure that the information is disseminated. In addition, they visited their counterparts in the Netherlands, who have been working with a larger workforce since 2013 and have already used legal procedures. The idea is really to connect them with their European colleagues. This is a European regulation. He's the same for everyone. This is what their training consists of.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u16	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u17	We will be able to follow up on the effects of all this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u18	Madam Chair, Minister, the news fell in late November. When the Commission presented its energy package called "Energy for all Europeans", the Commission made a proposal to curb the use of agrofuels produced from traditional food crops. This package brings together several proposals to reorganise the energy market with a view to meeting the commitments made when the Paris climate agreement was signed. It would appear that in terms of renewable energy proposals, the Commission wants to favour the last generations of biofuels made from agricultural and forestry waste or micro-algae and, conversely, a clear reduction in the use of agrofuels, the so-called first-generation biofuels you mentioned earlier. Madam Minister, can you tell us more about the details of this European proposal and its contribution to the environment? What opinion does our government intend to give with respect to this proposal? What will be the impact of this proposal on the Belgian agricultural market in particular in terms of employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u19	Madam President, Mr Blanchart, this is a highly complex question which – which is interesting for the debate – follows on from the answer I gave to Mrs Galant. The European Commission wants to reduce, paradoxically to what it wants to do at the level of biofuels, the use of these first-generation biofuels because they are in competition with the food chain. It wants to stimulate the development of advanced biofuels, particularly from waste, by 2030. All these efforts required from national legislators and national economies are obviously very important. The Belgian Federal Government took account of the problem of certain biofuels, particularly those produced from palm oil, but at the same time defended the fact that advanced biofuels were far from being developed at an industrial stage and that raw materials were far from being available in sufficient quantities to meet the overall demand. The government has also advocated the importance of preserving investments already made in the biofuel production sector in order to encourage future investments. To be quite concrete and clear, we have at least two companies that manufacture biofuels in Belgium and that are only beginning to amortise and profitable the facilities and investments made in the framework of the creation of this sector. These initiatives highlight the pioneering nature of our country. These companies must be able to amortise their investments and achieve profitability before they have to switch abruptly to other activities. The Federal Government recalled that there are biofuels in Belgium, although qualified as the first generation, produced by responsible sectors which rely on mainly European raw materials and which have contributed to the development of related sectors in the agricultural sector. We see an obvious economic impact which, fortunately, is not in frontal competition with the food chain, given its sustainability. As regards the impact of this Commission proposal on the Belgian agricultural market in terms of employment, having no answer at this stage, I invite you to ask my honourable colleague in charge of agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. This is an important issue. I hope that the transition can be done in good conditions for all field operators. Indeed, farmers will not be satisfied while NGOs will be delighted. It is necessary to be realistic and to put in place a transition between the two systems. We have been pioneers for the first biofuels and we hope that the same will be true in this area. However, we must not dream because farmers form families and represent jobs. I think we will have to adopt a gradual policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u21	We'll make them grow something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u22	Madam President, in my commune, there is a farmer who cultivates hectares of Miscanthus. That's really impressive!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u23	With the concern not to know what this type of culture, easy and profitable, can have a longer-term effect. It is also the responsibility of farmers who have embarked on such projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u24	We are indeed lacking in hindsight.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u25	This is the concern every time: you leave with large areas, high yields, and then you see side effects, and you have to change.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u26	I know him well, he is someone who, at the base, is concerned with doing well because he is concerned about the environment. As for side effects, they are not yet measured. Except the wild boars, who love!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u27	Apparently, it is the ideal environment for wild boars, to hide, to rest and then to devour the nearby crops, between the wood and the plot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been asked to wait – this is what comes from the plenary session, given the Conference of Presidents – for the budgetary debates to resume so that those who have to ask questions can come to do so. These debates have just resumed. I therefore forwarded the information we would be waiting for a few minutes in order to allow members to come and speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u29	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to apologize to the services, to you, to the colleagues and to the minister and her staff for my delay. This is linked to problems in plenary. When the committees are held at the same time as the plenary session, it is the plenary that has priority. I asked the clerk to inform the committee of our delay. I'll come back to my question. Understanding the urgency of raising climate ambitions if the Paris agreement is to be respected, the new government of the Netherlands has proposed to move from –40 % of CO2 emissions to the EU level by 2030 to –55 %, expressing its readiness to reduce its own emissions to –49 % (rather than –36%) at the same time. What do you think of this approach? Fearing that there would be no unanimity, the Netherlands proposed that, in the event of a blockage, a coalition of countries should endorse its idea. Among the countries mentioned are Benelux's natural partners. We know that our Prime Minister is particularly committed to the proper functioning of the Benelux and its ability to take decisive steps. Do you agree with this proposal for a coalition of willing countries? Will you register Belgium? If not, what other proposal, what other approach will you initiate at European level so that the Paris agreements can be respected, even though it is known that the commitments currently submitted only achieve a third of the objectives set.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at COP23 in Bonn, where we were a few weeks ago, I had the opportunity, as I have already told you, to meet at the booth of the Belgian delegation, the Dutch Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, Eric Wiebes, who actually informed me of this initiative of the Rutte III government by placing it in the context of the mechanism to increase the level of ambition of the Paris Agreement. In Paris, we decided that the 2018 facilitation dialogue between the parties should take stock of the collective efforts of the parties to achieve the long-term objective of the agreement, to cap emissions as soon as possible and to make rapid reductions thereafter to achieve a balance between emissions and removals in the second half of the century. This dialogue, which was renamed, under the leadership of the Fijian Presidency, the 'Talanoa Dialogue' at COP23 will begin in January 2018 and will be concluded with a political phase that will have to give signals to national governments, at COP24 in Poland, in December 2018. The outcome of this dialogue will have to provide information on the establishment of nationally determined contributions up-to-date by 2020. Already aware that the collective ambition currently set by the parties in the context of the Paris Agreement will not be enough to achieve these objectives, the Netherlands anticipates with a proposal on the follow-up by the European Union and its member countries to the political conclusions of the first phase of the five-year cycle of ambition in Paris. During this meeting with the Dutch Minister, he explained to me the outline of the Dutch proposal. And as I already had the opportunity to talk to you about this at the presentation of the Energy policy note in committee a few days ago, we agreed to maintain contact in the coming months, particularly in the context of the Benelux, which Belgium will chair in 2018, even though the Netherlands is seeking first and foremost an agreement at European level and second, a coalition between the countries of North-West Europe, from the Scandinavian countries in the North to France in the South. However, Benelux remains an interesting forum, in our view, to move this debate forward. I must not remind you that on 8 November last, the Prime Ministers of our three countries agreed at the Benelux Summit that we would take joint initiatives to strengthen capacity...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u31	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u32	I notice that. We will see if this will last because you have tabled several questions. To strengthen the innovation capacity of our industry so that it can take advantage of the opportunities and meet the challenges associated with the transition to a low-carbon and more sustainable economy, including by strengthening our position as a regional energy cooperation platform in order to develop energy union on a bottom-up basis. This energy union will have to lead to the decarbonisation of our economy as one of the five cross-cutting dimensions of the Energy Union. I have also instructed my administration, which in my view is the most fundamental, to maintain and intensify contacts with the Dutch administration. In this context, I can confirm that Ambassador Climate of the Netherlands will present the Dutch initiative to the various Belgian actors at the next stakeholder dialogue of the International Environmental Policy Coordination Committee on 25 January. As you know, I attach great importance to dialogue with the actors involved, whether national or regional. I note with interest that, for example, in the Flemish Region, the Voka (Employers' Federation) welcomed the fact that the Dutch government has defined an ambitious climate vision and affirmed that climate policy offers opportunities for economic growth and jobs, while stressing that such a policy must be accompanied by an effective innovation and industrial policy, a path which the Netherlands has chosen decisively. I share this analysis and ask only to make it a reality with my colleagues. I will keep you informed of his developments as of next January. I see you'll probably stay because I see there's a camera!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u33	I don't think that's why, you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u34	How do I know there's a camera? I have three questions to ask, Madam Minister, and that's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u35	I thank you for that and you appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u36	The rest doesn't have to be. I'm going back to my reply, Madam President. The length of the Minister's response seems to be equivalent only to the weakness of the commitments. The Netherlands proposes to increase from –40 to –50%. Belgium, for its part, discusses, makes forums, thinks, goes to see each other. The commitments of the Netherlands are clear, but those of Belgium are still to be expected, which I can only regret, while Europe is lagging behind its objectives. If anything else remains equal, we get beyond the three-and-a-half degrees of global warming. That means we're going straight into the wall.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u37	Madam President, if you allow me to do so, it is necessary to be ambitious and able to put into practice the efforts to achieve these ambitions. Yesterday I participated in the One Planet Summit in Paris, where I heard various major decision-makers say that there were four conditions for the emergence of proactive policies in this area. One of them is indeed the ambition displayed. But there are also concrete efforts in infrastructure, public-private partnerships and social awareness. These are the four fundamental elements. I see that the new government agreement in the Netherlands has strong ambitions. I'm going to work with my colleague who sends his climate representative to the embassy. He will explain to us how the Dutch intend to formulate concrete proposals that can be exchanged with Western European partners in order to make progress. The painting isn't that black. In the coming weeks, I believe that beyond Benelux, with the countries of Western Europe, we can enhance our ambitions, not only with slogans, but in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u38	I hope that this will be reflected in an agreement on the Netherlands' proposal to raise ambitions at European level from 40 to 55 %. The need is there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u39	Minister, you remember, it was on the second day of COP23 that the European Commission wrote it black and white: "Belgium will not achieve its climate targets by 2020. With a projected gap of 3.5 points on its 15% reduction target, Belgium is among the worst students in climate and energy." When we know that this 15% reduction target is nothing in relation to the 35% reduction target set for the 2030 period, which itself is largely insufficient to remain below the 2°C identified in Paris, we have the right to say that it is more than time to change the Braquet. How do you respond to those in Bonn – but also in Belgium – who feel that you lack ambition? How do you explain such bad results in recent years and, above all, what are you going to put in place to remedy them without waiting for the next legislature? Why, as you admit in the newspaper Le Soir of 10 November, do you never tackle this central and essential issue in the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u40	Mr Nollet, you mean, "Do you ever approach this issue together in the federal government, with all your colleagues?" It is not a failure to talk about it, but this debate is not yet sufficiently sensitive in the specific functions of each minister. However, it may become so. I have no doubt, moreover, about the presentation that we are going to make of the energy vision, whose main principles of development are based on the Energy and Climate lines. To date, each minister has been functionally responsible for the matters he or she has received and deals with. It is only on an ad hoc basis that we have the opportunity to hold discussions, which I think are insufficiently developed. We therefore agree on cross-cutting issues at the societal level. The European Commission's annual report on progress in the implementation of European climate commitments notes that "Belgium will be able to honour its commitment under this decision, given the flexibilities provided for through this mechanism and the fact that Belgium will have exceeded its annual target in the first years of the period 2013-2020, which is covered by the Effort Sharing Decision". Belgium could be in line with its objective. This first answer is a false one against the assertions made in your question. According to the proposed Effort Sharing regulation covering the period 2021-2030, Belgium will be allocated a target of 35% reduction of its non-ETS emissions in 2030 compared to 2005. However, on an unchanged basis, the projections indicate a very large deficit in relation to this goal. This is based on official figures, approved by the National Climate Commission, in which, among other things, representatives of the federal deputy prime ministers sit. Clearly, more ambitious actions will need to be put in place for the post-2020 period. I have repeatedly said to you, particularly in this committee, that efforts have been easier to earn and record for the first period of Burden Sharing 2013-2020. The analysis carried out by the European Commission on the performance during this period, in terms of the reduction of Belgium's greenhouse gases, shows that this study is correct. It also indicates that, for the period 2021-2030, we were going to have to make extremely ambitious decisions. And this is also true of other European countries. In the Energy Pact, we have considered two lines: the production and consumption of energy and the decarbonisation of our economy. The UNEP Gap Report, the conclusions of which were presented at COP23, once again clearly demonstrates that the current commitments of the parties to the Paris Agreement are far from sufficient. In this context, the context is being broadened to include the European Union and the world in order to achieve the objective of keeping warming well below the threshold of two degrees Celsius. The watchword today is therefore the strengthening of ambition as was mentioned at yesterday's international meeting but too much in words according to some. Europe and Belgium will have to make their fair contribution. An important milestone in strengthening ambition is expected at COP24, in December 2018, in Katowice, as part of the Talanoa Dialogue, which will be informed in particular by the IPCC special report, expected in 2018, on the implications of the 1.5 degree Celcius target. There is no doubt that this dialogue will lead to conclusions that we will have to take into account in the context of updating the European contribution expected for 2020. Strengthening the perspective of our medium- and long-term ambition (2030 and 2050) must be used to develop our climate-energy policy. It is from this perspective that we have worked on the Pact and, as you have pointed out on social networks, the ambition is to achieve a 100% renewable electricity mix in 2050. This pact will have to be translated into concrete measures and it will take a long time and generate many decisions at all levels of power and in regulations. This will enable decisions to be taken in the form of cooperation between the different levels of authority. These measures will also be the subject of an integrated national energy-climate plan, the draft of which is expected to be submitted to the European bodies by the end of 2018. This plan will include a component for federal measures in various sectors such as taxation, mobility, energy or product policy. It will therefore involve different federal departments and ministers. There will also be a regional aspect that I will not address here. An important element of this policy framework could be the consideration of a carbon price on the basis of the results of the ongoing national debate on the subject. As for the funding of these measures, as the Prime Minister has just announced, the government will issue green bonds in the short term. I would like to add that the national strategic investment plan will play a leadership role and will provide an important funding base for this policy. This is all the more so since the Prime Minister invited the Regions to participate in this major funding plan. Since climate-energy policy is of a cross-cutting nature, action in this area can only be coordinated between different ministers and different levels of power. I'm responding to your concern. Yesterday, I said it – because I think it is and I would like it to be different – there was not enough substantive cross-cutting debate on these matters at the federal government level. But now that we have succeeded with the Regions, I do not see why we would not succeed in the federal government, based on the vision of the four Energy Ministers. Concertation with the Regions within the National Climate Commission (NCC) and even within the concertation committee, which is the forum for consultation between the Federal and the Regions, is essential, as is good cooperation between the federal ministers concerned. In this regard, I count on the full cooperation of my colleagues to develop the necessary actions within the framework of the federal contribution to the National Energy-Climate Plan (NECP). I will make proposals to the Council of Ministers in the course of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u41	Minister, I hear your ideas, your plans, your proposals, sometimes even your ambition. But I see the delays. I note, like the European Commission, that Belgium is lagging behind in the 2020 target. All these beautiful speeches are interesting. I can join them. When it is, I say it. You've seen him recently. But when the acts do not follow the speeches, I see the problem and I have to point it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u42	Minister, almost all experts agree that a carbon price is the cornerstone of an efficient climate policy. At the Edora AG on 31 May 2016, you mentioned the value of implementing such a carbon pricing policy. As a result, you have decided to hold a national debate on this matter. The work should be spread over one year and end at the end of 2017 with a closing event, before you make a series of concrete proposals to your colleagues in the Council of Ministers. That is what you were committed to, in answer to question 12104. Where are we? What is the result of this year of work? What are your first conclusions? What are you going to propose to your colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u43	Mr Nollet, I agree with you. As you say, carbon pricing is a particularly effective tool to encourage economic actors to change their behaviour and adapt their investment choices to activities compatible with the decarbonisation objective of our economy. In this regard, I had the opportunity to see yesterday, on a French channel, a very interesting show, in the wake and in the margins of the Parisian summit, which dealt eminently with this issue. In addition to the emission reductions it allows to be achieved, this pricing also provides many opportunities. In this way, it can promote job creation - particularly through tax slides - and ultimately improve the country's energy independence, stimulate innovation and help reduce air pollution. As indicated in the latest national climate survey published this week, more and more Belgians would be in favour of a CO2 tax. Their number would be even higher than those opposed to such a measure. Many actors, both public and private, want to discuss with us the relevance of this tool. Careful consideration of how to implement such an instrument is indeed crucial in order to seize the socio-economic opportunities associated with the low-carbon transition. It is equally essential to reflect on the potential negative impacts - you will agree - in order to avoid, mitigate or compensate for them. It is for all these reasons that I decided at the beginning of the year to hold a national debate on carbon pricing, which aims to study the modalities of this instrument in our non-ETS (Emission Trading Scheme) sectors. To ensure that this debate is based on facts - not impressions or slogans - it is based on solid analyses prepared by my administration and a consortium of consultants from Climact, PwC Belgium and Sumac (?). In addition, to ensure convergence of this policy with those undertaken at different levels of power, this debate involves very closely representatives of the Regions, other federal administrations and civil society - employers, trade unions, NGOs and consumer representatives. I have ensured that this policy is included in the energy pact with the Regions. As you also know, I launched this initiative last January at a high-level political event. Since then, the technical phase of this action has continued in the form of sectoral workshops at which stakeholders in the sectors concerned - transport, construction, agriculture, non-ETS industry - are consulted and can express their views on various aspects of the proposed mechanism. At this stage, three workshops were held. The first was cross-cutting and related to issues of price level and scope of the instrument. The second and third dealt with building and transportation. Two additional workshops are still planned: the first on agriculture and non-ETS industry, the second on synthesizing the entire exercise before organising, by mid-2018, a new high-level event at which we will probably have an opportunity to present the results of this initiative. The event will be followed by an invitation to the stakeholders to provide a formal opinion within federal and regional advisory bodies. It is obviously premature to give you the conclusions of this exercise, but some strong trends are emerging and may interest you. The idea we are working on is to put in place a carbon price, initially relatively low, and then grow it on a predetermined path. The direction, the long-term signal, is indeed essential in order to guide investment choices. This is proof of my discussion yesterday in Paris with the new Quebec Minister of the Environment. With it, as well as with other countries that have launched carbon pricing, I exchange good practices, knowing that Quebecers have a three-year decline in this policy. They have told me that their starting point - of which they are satisfied - is a rather low rate which is growing on a monitored path. The construction and transportation sectors have already been the subject of preliminary discussions. For the first sector, a major challenge will be to understand the distributive impacts of carbon prices, particularly among households with energy poverty. Carbon pricing revenues can contribute to this. The proper targeting of such support will be essential to promote the necessary "price signal" while avoiding income distortion and allowing disadvantaged households to also benefit from improved energy management of their housing. For the second sector, the main challenge is to link carbon pricing in line with other policies aimed at meeting the many challenges in this sector, such as the continued rise in greenhouse gas emissions, record levels of road congestion and reduced demand for mobility, significant air pollution and the reform of the tax system for corporate cars, the promotion of public transit, the kilometric tax, the excise system, etc. Overall, these preliminary discussions demonstrate broad stakeholder support for carbon pricing in non-ETS sectors. As I mentioned earlier in June 2016, this initiative aims to put forward concrete proposals to my colleagues in the Council of Ministers, based on their competence in certain tax areas, but also because there is a need to ensure coherence between fiscal climate policy and other climate policies - also with the Regions. For the rest, I cannot move further since it is premature to detail what the measures will look like. But we're on track to get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic781x.u44	Madam President, I have no reply to make.
