ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u1	My fellow Members, Mr Maingain and Mr Blanchart, have not spoken. I propose that we ask their questions. Skip item 15, 17760 and 18824. When they arrive, they will be given the floor. Mr Crusnière is apologized; he is abroad. Mr Flahaux will come later, so his questions will be dealt with later. Agenda item 19, Question No 18394 by Mrs Grovonius, has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u2	Mr President, Minister, the EU Summit of 28 April had only one item on the agenda, a text of nine pages containing the guidelines to which the 27 Member States wish to adhere in the negotiations with the United Kingdom on the Brexit. The clear message to the British Government is to negotiate first on divorce and then on trade relations. The future negotiations raise a lot of questions, some of which I would like to put to you. First of all, what is the state of play in the meantime? Is there any common position on the scenario to be followed? A great deal has already been tested on the left and right, among others by Mr Macron. There have been a lot of political debates in the media. How do you see things right now? Secondly, this is an important issue for us too. We are net contributors, and our contribution to the EU could increase. How do you see that? Thirdly, on a future trade agreement, there are even more differences of interest. There were consultations between Denmark, the Netherlands and Ireland, which drew one card together. I have the impression that Flanders is pulling that card too. How do you see that? How do you see the affair? Fourthly and finally, the EEB and EBA will move from London to one of the Member States of the European Union. Belgium is, or was, a candidate, but it was not possible to agree on a common candidacy. Meanwhile, there are a lot of other players on the field. How do you see this decision evolving? How do you think this can be resolved? Thank you in advance for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u3	Mr Luykx, I assume you included your question about the elections in England in your first question. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Peteghem and I propose that he put both his questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u4	Mr President, Minister, in April there were elections in Britain. There was a defeat of the Prime Minister's party, which caused her to lose her majority in Parliament, precisely what she wanted to avoid in order to be able to negotiate more strongly with the EU on the Brexit. In the meantime, a coalition has been set up, but we continue to ask questions about the Brexit negotiations, which will undoubtedly also have a significant impact on timing. To what extent do you suspect that the election result will have an impact on the British mandate, but certainly on the timing of the negotiations? In addition, there has been a debate on the rights that EU citizens will retain in the UK. Today, everyone has the right to live, work and study in another EU Member State. In the negotiating mandates on the Brexit, both the EU and the United Kingdom have made it a priority to preserve the rights of EU nationals and the British. The EU directives, which have been adopted, also state that mutual guarantees must be found in order to preserve the status of citizens and their family members, as well as rights arising from EU law, including a permanent right of residence after a continuous legal stay of five years. Minister, what is our country's position in the debate on EU nationals in the United Kingdom and vice versa? How many Belgians currently live in the United Kingdom and will this situation be dealt with?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u5	Mr President, Minister, my question is dated 8 June and things have obviously changed. In mid-April, when Theresa May announced the early parliamentary elections, observers predicted a tidal wave to the Conservatives and a historical defeat to Labour. A month and a half later, Theresa May was forced to form a government with the Irish Unionists, thus failing to achieve a large majority in order to negotiate Brexit with the European Union. I'd tend to say it's better for us. The Tories remain the country's first party, but they lose the absolute majority. The disaster scenario is confirmed for Theresa May, who had organized these early parliamentary elections in order, on the contrary, to strengthen his position. Minister, I know that Mr Baroin is in charge of the negotiations. What will be the different stages and timing for Britain's exit from the European Union? What is your analysis of the impact of the new political configuration on the British position in these negotiations, especially when we know that Northern Ireland voted in favour of maintaining the European Union in the majority? Brexit will have consequences for the Belgian economy. We have already seen it in committee thanks to the studies received. Are further studies in progress?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you said, Mr Flahaux, following the elections of 8 June 2017, the Conservative Party lost its absolute majority in the United Kingdom. Nevertheless, this party remains the most important and Prime Minister Theresa May formed a government with the parliamentary support of the Democratic Unionist Party, but without really strengthening its position with a view to negotiations on Brexit. It is not excluded that there will be a reorientation of the Brexit position within the UK Government. The effective Brexit negotiations were formally launched on Monday 19 June, despite the unclear situation on the British side. It is in the interest of all parties that the Brexit Negotiating Act can be launched as quickly as possible, given the limited period of two years within which the withdrawal agreement must be approved. Then there will be European elections. The European Union is ready to begin negotiations in accordance with the guidelines of the European Council and the negotiating mandate. We have received a first clarification of the British Government's positions on the protection of citizens' rights. It is important to do the same with the method of calculating separation in order to ensure progress in this first phase of negotiations and to meet the deadlines for the European Council to launch the second phase of negotiations, that of the future partnership. This sequenced approach is part of the negotiating strategy agreed by the European Council; the Treaty Article 50 provides for a maximum period of two years from notification to conclude a withdrawal agreement. This period may only be extended by unanimity of the 27 Member States and the United Kingdom. For the European Union, it is important to know what negotiating positions the United Kingdom will put forward, in particular its position vis-à-vis the customs union and the single market. With regard to the postponement of the Brexit, I do not want to anticipate this, as the European Union has not received any questions to this effect. So that seems premature to me. Moreover, there is no clarity as to what possible circumstances could lead to such a question. As regards a possible financial shortfall in the multi-annual financial framework 2014-2020 following the Brexit, the position to be defended by the Commission will be clear that both the Union and Great Britain must respect their commitments and the objectives defined when the United Kingdom was still, and is still today, a member of the European Union. According to our latest information, the official number of Belgians in the United Kingdom is 26 326. Belgium fully agrees with the EU position expressed in the Commission's position paper on the essential principles of EU citizens' rights and, on the contrary, British rights on the European continent, which are similar for both categories of citizens. That is one of the three very important points in the negotiations. A second important point is the financial modalities of separation. The third important point is the Irish situation, which is also a very difficult issue, given the composition of the present new British Government. In this context, we are still waiting for some elements of the British position. Indeed, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the European banking authorities must leave the United Kingdom. On 22 June, the European Council approved a procedure and criteria for the allocation of the European Medicines Agency. The Federal Government and the Regions are working closely together to submit a well-founded dossier by the deadline of 31 July. The so-called EEA Task Force meets on a weekly basis. Already at the beginning of that dossier, at the end of March this year, the federal government and the Regions are working constructively together to compile a high-quality dossier. The promotional brochure and the ema.be.eu website are the result of this close collaboration. In the same vein, the technical dossier is now being prepared and will be submitted before 31 July. The EEA as such has not indicated any specific preference. However, the option in the Rue de la Loi seems best suited to the criteria laid down by the European Council and the timing imposed. Most of the Member States have formally or informally announced their candidacy for the EEA, leading to around 22 applications for a possible new location so far. It is true that Brussels meets almost all the criteria of the European Council. So we are offering a very competitive candidacy and are not without a chance at all. There are three possible locations in Belgium, one per Region. That's almost normal. However, at the most recent meeting of the Consultative Committee, we reached an agreement. Initially, the location in Brussels is preferred. Secondly, if necessary, we can still go to the other two locations in Flanders or Wallonia. This was done on the basis of an initial visit by the representatives of the EEA in Belgium. As has already been said, it is preferable to have a location in Brussels. I repeat, however, that the agreement in the Conciliation Committee means that the choice is first and foremost Brussels. If necessary, there is a presentation of the other applications. I referred to a brochure, which can include, for example, the three locations with explanations for every possible decision. At the initiative of the Minister of Economy, Kris Peeters, a high level Brexit group was set up to study the economic impact of Brexit on the Belgian economy and the challenges to be met on the basis of reports provided by various sectors of activity concerned, as well as the National Bank and the SPF Economy. The working group presented a report of recommendations at the end of January. The FPS Foreign Affairs continues to work on the good cooperation between the FPS and the Regions to get more information from the different sectors. We are therefore now presenting all the specific Belgian interests on the basis of the question put by the three Regions in this regard. I repeat that so far there has been a clear and clear common position of the 27 Member States to give a mandate to Mr Barnier. Mr Flahaux, it is Mr Barnier, Mr Baroin, who is dealing with something else at the moment in France. We have given a clear mandate to Mr Barnier and are waiting for Britain to react. On the basis of that response, we may be able to move forward and have a real debate within 27.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u7	Thank you, Minister. In the meantime, Mr Van Peteghem has informed me that he will refer briefly to his question No. 19688 on the relocation of EU agencies, which you mentioned in your reply. First, I give the floor to Mr Luykx.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u8	Minister, as far as the seat of EEB and EBA is concerned, it is good that there is consensus. That increases the chances of a possible location here and that is to be encouraged. As far as the Brexit dossier is concerned, because of Mrs May's weakened position and because of the whole start of these negotiations, we have a certain delay in any case. That's not so much a delay behind the scenes, but it's a bit of a cup of coffee right now. The proof of the pudding is in the eating, as the British say so beautifully. In concrete terms, we cannot enter into a debate until the results of these negotiations have been achieved. We have also heard Mr Barnier here and it goes without saying that in his position he does not let his cards be checked and is cautious. We will follow this process closely over the next few months, and we are counting on you as a well-informed reporter to keep us informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. Indeed, we must avoid uncertainty and uncertainty, both for our Belgian companies and for our EU citizens living in the United Kingdom. The formation of another coalition, which will be somewhat less strong at the negotiating table, will undoubtedly have an impact on timing, which will undoubtedly have an impact on the uncertainty and uncertainty that will arise. We have always stressed the importance of maintaining clarity, especially for our Belgian companies. With regard to the rights of our EU citizens, you have raised the number of Belgians in the United Kingdom, 26 000 to 27 000 for them, it is important that there is clarity so that they know where they stand when the Brexit becomes a reality. Indeed, I also had a question about the European Medicines Agency. You have largely given the answer to that. It is very good that there is consensus on a location. It will be important for us to submit a very strong dossier, because many other countries are also interested. In this respect, it is a good thing that we can put forward one candidate with the Regions and the Communities and the federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u10	I thank the minister for his response. In any case, I think that in order to negotiate Brexit properly, we had to have a strong front on the European side. In this sense, first of all, I think that the election of Mr Macron and the likely re-election of Mrs Merkel will be an element which should make it possible to have a good European tandem, even if Europe does not, of course, amount to those two countries, which may sometimes be able to imagine themselves. Secondly, I heard what you said about the agencies. What I found extremely interesting since yesterday is that Chancellor Merkel and her party are going to act to ensure that the European Parliament is fully in Brussels and that in exchange, we could give the Medicines Agency in Strasbourg. If we could have both, of course, it would be good; we are not going to squander our pleasure, but I think that the European Parliament is a fundamental institution. And it would be very good if she were entirely in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u11	Mr President, Minister, of the deaths and disappearances by hundreds, this is the record of the crisis in Burundi since President Pierre Nkurunziza decided to be re-elected by violating the Constitution. On Thursday, 15 June 2017, an international commission of inquiry issued its report to the UN Human Rights Council after four months of field work. Fatsah Ouguerguz was very clear to the Human Rights Council. The first months of investigation confirmed "our worst fear", he said, on the scale and gravity of the allegations of human rights violations in Burundi. The chairman of the commission admits this himself; the work was not easy because Bujumbura denied them access to Burundian territory. The investigators investigated the more than 400,000 Burundian refugees in neighbouring countries. They gathered nearly 500 testimonies about the serious human rights violations committed since the beginning of the crisis in April 2015. And what struck the investigators most was the "sentiment of deep and widespread fear" felt by refugees "traumatized" by the violence they suffered. On the government side, the Minister for Human Rights rejected this report on Wednesday, 14 June 2017. The Permanent Representative of Burundi to the Human Rights Council responded. He violently attacked the European Union accused of being the instigator and of being practically part of an international plot against Burundi. Minister, I know that this country is part of your interests. Do you have any information consistent with this commission of inquiry? What about the fate of Belgian expatriates on Burundian territory? Is a possible evacuation plan for our nationals on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u12	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, thank you for giving me the opportunity to take stock of the situation in Burundi, which is still in a political impasse. Opposition parties continue to be harassed, in particular Mr. Rwasa's FNL, many of which have been arbitrarily killed or imprisoned in recent months, and the MSD, which was recently suspended for six months. Elections are scheduled for 2020, but the fundamental freedoms of political parties are still not respected. I am concerned about the constitutional review process that has just begun. This process seems to have as its main objective the removal of the limit of presidential mandates. While Burundi has, of course, the right to revise its basic law, the time does not seem to be right. The current crisis prevents any constitutional review that would be consensual and inclusive, in particular because much of the opposition and civil society is in exile. The economic situation is deteriorating rapidly. It's a destabilizing factor. The most dramatic manifestation of this crisis is the fuel shortage in the country, which is taking on very worrying proportions. The situation of students is also very difficult. It was the transformation of their stock market into a loan that caused their movement. The students have now resumed the courses but this has been at the price of the arrest of some leaders of the student movement. Today, four students are still detained in Mpimba prison, awaiting trial. They are accused of trying to prepare an insurrection. Our embassy in Bujumbura closely monitors their situation. I haven't heard of any waves of arrests targeting women in particular. On the other hand, we received videos showing Imbonerakure (CNDD-FDD youth activists) calling for the rape of opponents. In particular, these intolerable acts were denounced by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. With regard to the human rights situation in general, our concerns are great, as are your concerns. Our information overlaps with that of the investigators of the United Nations commission. The information comes not only from refugees and other exiles, but also from local sources. Despite the difficulties, there are still a number of human rights observers on the ground who are doing a remarkable job. All these sources refer to arbitrary arrests, unexplained abductions, extrajudicial executions, torture and the widespread climate of fear among the population, particularly as a result of the abuses of the Imbonerakure. Improving the state of human rights is one of the main requirements of the European Union for lifting the measures set out in Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreements. The commission of inquiry reported to the Human Rights Council in June on the human rights crisis that has lasted for more than two years. The committee describes a climate of widespread fear, severe restrictions on fundamental freedoms, violence (including sexual violence) fuelled by hate speech, in a context of impunity. Burundi rejected all the accusations and returned them as attacks on national sovereignty. The Commission therefore faces challenges in carrying out its mandate, which are its short duration and the total lack of cooperation of the Burundian authorities. It wishes to continue its efforts towards these authorities with a view to achieving the necessary cooperation. In the interactive dialogue with the Committee of Inquiry, we stressed once again the importance of Burundi's rapid resumption of its cooperation with international human rights mechanisms. I regret that United Nations investigators did not have access to Burundian territory. I also call on the authorities to allow the observers of the African Union and the United Nations to carry out their mission. Such measures would promote confidence-building with the international community. About the security of our expatriates, our embassy on site has a crisis plan developed with the Ministry of Defence, which allows the rapid evacuation and security of our nationals. This plan is regularly updated. At the moment, however, there is no new threat to the Belgian community. We're still vigilant, but we're not talking about evacuation yet. I would remind you that this measure is obviously exceptional. On the issue of pressure, in March 2016 the European Union initiated a procedure "Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreements" and suspended part of its development aid. An assessment is under way, after which these provisions should, in the next few days, be extended for six months, given the lack of favourable developments. Therefore, I do not believe that certain European Union projects directly benefit Burundian leaders. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the European Union and Belgium continue to provide massive assistance to the Burundian population. For our part, we are particularly active in agriculture, health and education. As for individual sanctions, the European Union's list currently includes four names, but the effect of such a measure seems rather weak in Burundi, as its leaders rarely travel and hold few assets and bank accounts in Europe. As long as the region is not truly committed, these means of pressure only produce limited effects. She seems to have become aware of the impasse and seems to want to get out of it. Thus, despite President Museveni's charge against rule 96 at the last summit of the East African Community, it should be noted that the report of the facilitator Mkapa was adopted there. This text presents an analysis very close to ours and proposes ways out of the crisis based on inclusive dialogue, without preconditions, as well as the adoption of measures of appeasement by the Burundian authorities. The team of former President Mkapa, assisted by the United Nations and the African Union, was preparing a new meeting to be held in early July. We hope that all parties to the conflict will participate in a dialogue, in a spirit of reconciliation and with the main objective of free and transparent elections in 2020. As far as civil society and human rights defenders are concerned, many people have had to go on their way to exile, particularly to Belgium. One of our demands to the authorities is to allow these people to return to Burundi and work there safely and freely. For those who are still there, security is far from guaranteed. It will surely be one of our topics of conversation with the new UN Special Envoy, Michel Kafando, who, through his experience in Burkina Faso, knows civil society well. A strong United Nations presence in Burundi is necessary under the current conditions. But, I repeat, we are in a kind of political impasse. In any case, we do not see the situation changing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u13	Thank you, Minister. The picture you have just drawn is both extremely precise, but equally worrying, because we wonder whether we should not mention it, and perhaps come to an outside intervention. I would not like the situation in Cambodia to be reached with the Khmer Rouge, where the international community has finally not intervened, and there have been millions of deaths. We are not here, fortunately, but this is very worrying, especially for the civilian population. I would also like to thank you for saying that, for the possible evacuation of the Belgians, as a last resort, everything is already planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u14	Mr President, Mr Minister, Turkey seems to be moving away every day from the democratic model that we are defending in the European Union, in particular by moving firmly towards a totalitarian regime. Moreover, the leader of the main opposition party has just declared it. Thus, the press becomes the target of the Turkish authorities as in the worst dictatorships. Erol Önderoglu was accused of apologies for Kurdish terrorism at a press conference on 2 March 2016. He is threatened with a 14-year prison sentence. "Our representative is being prosecuted for terrorist propaganda, for taking part in a solidarity campaign with a Kurdish newspaper that has since been banned," explains Johann Bihr, one of Reporters Without Borders (RSF) officials. A total of 56 journalists are being prosecuted for participating in the solidarity campaign. More than a hundred journalists are imprisoned. Over the past year, more than 150 media outlets have been closed as part of the state of emergency. This country is ranked 155th out of 180 in RSF's annual press freedom ranking. In May, the organisation launched a campaign specifically dedicated to journalists imprisoned in Turkey. Mr Minister, do you think that, together with your Council of Europe colleagues, you can really put pressure on Ankara to influence its policy towards more freedom of the press?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u15	Mr Flahaux, the situation in Turkey continues to be a source of serious concern and is closely monitored by my services. Our positions are relayed both at European level and in the Council of Europe and the United Nations. They also translate into concrete actions of solidarity at the bilateral level, for example with the presence of our diplomatic representatives in certain trials. In the European Council, Belgium has for several months adopted one of the strongest positions. It is no longer credible to maintain the fiction of the continuation of accession negotiations as if nothing were happening. We need to reflect at European level on our future relations with Turkey. In Belgium's view, a consequence of this must also be a reversal of European financing for Turkey. Intrinsically linked to the enlargement process, IPA funds, a pre-accession aid instrument, can no longer be spent without major adjustment and serious reorientation. IPA funds should, as a matter of priority, contribute to the strengthening of Turkish civil society, promote people-to-people exchanges and finance programmes under the Facility for Syrian Refugees in Turkey, which is already the case. The relevance of all other programs should be reassessed in the light of the current context. One of the messages that can be drawn from the informal Foreign Affairs Council last April is the need to maintain a dialogue on the common interests of the Union and Turkey. I believe that dialogues on migration and the fight against terrorism are important. I also believe that the European Union must consider all the levers it has to exert on Turkey, whether in terms of mobility or in terms of economic and commercial matters. At the meeting of President Erdogan with the President of the Council, Donald Tusk, and the President of the Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, on the sidelines of the NATO summit on 25 May, a list of possible meetings was suggested by the President of the Commission, based inter alia on the already existing principle of high level political dialogue and sectoral dialogues. Certain conditions for visa liberalisation and the modernisation of the customs union have been repeated. Let us not forget that the Cyprus question is a central element of the problem of the customs union and this discussion on the customs union is an important lever in the hands of the European Union. At the level of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe decided on 28 April to put Turkey back under monitoring, in response to the measures taken after the attempted coup d'état. This autonomous decision of the Assembly is final and does not require the approval or formalisation of the Committee of Ministers. At the last meeting of the Committee of Ministers in Nicosia on 18 and 19 May, I called on the Turkish authorities to dialogue and cooperate fully with all the monitoring mechanisms established by the Council of Europe. I also called on the Turkish authorities to follow up on the recommendations through concrete responses and measures. I also stressed that freedom of expression and association, freedom of the press and political pluralism must remain key principles of the Council of Europe's work vis-à-vis Turkey. A possible referendum on the reintroduction of the death penalty would be a break with the acquis of values developed within the Council of Europe for decades, as we have already said with regard to the process of accession to the European Union. These messages are also relayed at the United Nations level. On 12 June, at the 35th session of the UN Human Rights Council in New York, the Belgian delegation made three strong demands in particular: the end of the state of emergency in order to guarantee once again the full enjoyment of fundamental rights, the release of all persons detained for using their right to freedom of expression and the establishment of an impartial and effective redress mechanism to deal with the complaints of tens of thousands of dismissed officials. As far as press freedom is concerned, Mr Flahaux, you are referring to Mr Erol Önderoglu's situation. He appeared before the Istanbul Assize Court on 8 June. At the conclusion of this fourth hearing, his trial was postponed until 26 December. This trial is followed with the utmost attention by our Consulate General in Istanbul, as are followed, moreover, by our embassy in Ankara or our post in Istanbul, other trials opened against journalists, human rights defenders or members of civil society. In this regard, we can still refer to the arrest of Mr Taner Kiliç, President of Amnesty International in Turkey. His situation was discussed at the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday, 19 June, when I had the opportunity to reiterate a message of support and solidarity. We are trying to convey our message but also to take action, in collaboration with our European colleagues and with European diplomacy. I repeat, we must continue to pay close attention to the situation in Turkey. At the same time, there is a need to be able to continue dialogue on matters of common interest in the field of migration and the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u16	I thank the minister for his answer. It is certain that the issue of freedom of the press is not, unfortunately, limited to Turkey. We have a resolution being drawn up in the Committee on External Relations on this subject. Secondly, the Committee on External Relations will visit Turkey very soon. I hope that this will be an opportunity to clear some lines. Finally, more fundamentally and globally, it is certain that the situation will gradually deteriorate from week to week in all respects. The problem is, we don't have all the instruments to counter this. In fact, Turkey is a member of NATO, Turkey is a bulwark in the problem of refugees. We must hope that the conflicts in Syria and Iraq will end because there will be no more refugees. That would be a way for us to be able to influence Turkey more strongly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u17	Minister, Ukrainians will soon be able to travel visa-free to the EU. With a biometric passport, Ukrainian citizens will be able to come to the EU for a maximum of 90 days as a tourist or for business or family reasons. According to the European Parliament, Ukraine meets all the criteria and is a strong message that Ukraine is an important partner for the EU. However, we have to make a note of that. There is the increasing power of the far right in the country. There are more and more violent protests against the government in Kiev. Politicians are being held hostage, buildings occupied. Strangers get beaten up and so on. It's hard not to see that. In addition, the country is still suffering from a devastating war and substantial savings are under way, which undermine the last forms of social protection. It is not unthinkable that Ukrainians will use this visa waiver for a better life in the European Union. It is good that the EU strengthens the suspension mechanism for these visas, making it easier to re-introduce the visa requirement in exceptional cases. Minister, do you have any estimate of how many Ukrainians will use this? Do you think there is any possibility that these Ukrainians will use the exemption to travel here and apply for political asylum? Do you share this concern? Could you also explain further the tightening up of the suspension mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u18	Since June 10 and 11, Ukrainians in possession of a biometric passport have been able to travel without a visa to Europe. It is a short stay for tourist, family or business reasons. This is a good thing for freedom of movement, and economic benefits can be expected. Still, I'd like to ask you a few questions. The aim of this agreement is to counter certain fears that Europe could derogate from this measure if the migratory pressure intensified or if Ukrainians were to remain in the territory beyond the three months allowed. There has been some mistrust. What economic returns can be expected from this type of issue? What were the main reasons given to our embassy in Kiev for applying for a visa? Will this measure encourage trade?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some of these questions fall within the competence of my colleague, Mr Francken, but I will answer them. Ukraine has more than four million valid passports in circulation, of which the majority, 2.8 million, is already biometric. However, following the visa waiver reserved for biometric passports, many Ukrainians can be expected to exchange their non-biometric passport for a biometric copy. The visa waiver applies to all holders of biometric passports from any region of Ukraine, as recognised by the international community. There is no difference between one region and another, it applies to the whole country. It cannot be estimated exactly how many people will travel to Belgium and how many of them will abuse the exemption regime, for example by submitting an unfounded asylum request. At the same time as the proposal, the Commission has carried out a comprehensive analysis of the possible consequences of visa waiver in the area of migration and security. Of course, a limited increase in the number of asylum applications can never be excluded, especially in the first few months following the exemption. In any case, we will closely monitor the evolution of the number of Ukrainian asylum applications and, if necessary, intervene. The reformed visium suspension mechanism, of which Belgium was one of the initiators, gives us additional tools to take action at European level if necessary. That may be necessary after the first experience. This partial liberalisation of visas should help to promote trade between the European Union and Ukraine. Within the limits of exercise, increased mobility tends to favour interpersonal contacts. These contacts are also a priority of the European Union's action with regard to the Eastern Partnership countries of which Ukraine is a member. In general, the more sustained trade will strengthen the European anchoring of these countries. It should also be stressed that the economic dimension, with potential prospects for the tourism sector, is one of the benefits envisaged as a result of the increased mobility brought about by the partial liberalisation of visas. However, it is still too early to comment on the extent of these economic and tourist benefits. The image of a growing influence of extreme right-wing nationalists who would also be involved with the authorities is largely fed by campaigns of disinformation from Russia and from the separatist regions of Eastern Ukraine. These are mainly aimed at discrediting the government and pro-European movements. It is therefore appropriate to take into account the true impact of far-right groups in Ukraine. For example, the representation of the far-right party in the Ukrainian parliament is few. However, such nationalist extremist groups are able to take harmful action. A recent example is that of road and rail blockades in respect of goods from the occupied territories in eastern Ukraine and trucks registered in Russia. Although this was a reaction due to Russia's nationalisation of companies in the eastern part of the country, these actions have led to an escalation of tensions and the creation of an additional obstacle to the implementation of the Minsk agreements aimed at achieving a lasting solution to the conflict. The Ukrainian Government has been critical of these actions and has now dismantled the blockades. The suspension mechanism was reinforced, inter alia, at the request of Belgium, as an additional guarantee for the current wave of proposed exemptions, not only Georgia and Ukraine but also Kosovo and Turkey. Additional criteria were laid down which could trigger the suspension mechanism, such as an increase in the number of entry refusals and an increased risk to public order and security. In addition, the Readmission criterion will now be charged not only for refusals of own nationals but also for refusals of third-country nationals, where applicable on the basis of a European Readmission Agreement as is the case with Ukraine. The reference periods of these increases are also reduced from six to two months. The comparison with the period prior to the visa waiver can now be made without any time limit. The previous period of up to seven years shall be deleted. In future, the Commission can also initiate the suspension itself, without the notification of a Member State. In practice, a Member State will often be reluctant to notify the first or only such situation, even if the criteria are met in themselves, as this will be very sensitive to the third country concerned. The Commission may do so in the same case as the Member State. Moreover, for third countries exempted on the basis of a visa dialogue with a list of criteria to be fulfilled, the Commission will be able to do so even if the criteria are no longer met. There is therefore always the possibility for the Commission to go in the same direction as some Member State. It is also new that the Commission will be obliged to propose an implementing act to impose the suspension at the request of a majority of Member States. The first renewable period of suspension shall also be increased from six to nine months. However, during this initial period, the Council may no longer impose the suspension on all nationals of the third country concerned, but only on certain categories. That was a concession to the European Parliament during the negotiations. However, the categories can be very broadly defined, for example all holders of ordinary passports, as mentioned in a joint declaration by the Council and the Commission. If the suspension is extended, it may be imposed on all nationals, but this will require the approval of the European Parliament. The extension is possible for 18 months. It was a very long debate, Mr Luykx, in the Council to get the noses in the same direction. I have already said that a suspension mechanism was introduced, first and foremost at the request of Belgium, and other partners. After that, negotiations with the European Parliament were necessary, with certain adjustments, especially with regard to nationals where we are striving for precise categories. It's possible to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The debate has been held in detail there, and we will not repeat it here. I think it is important to shorten the reference period: faster measurement is also faster knowing. The whole package of accompanying measures to allow a suspension is good. I understand that a precise assessment is not possible today, but it seems that the dossier is being followed with due attention here and in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u21	Mr President, Minister, the European Commission has recently ceased its financial support for the organisation helping refugees in Greece. The NGO in question is suspected of having sexually exploited migrants upon arrival on the Greek peninsula. It is the European authority that has itself discovered the alleged wrongs. The European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) has already opened an investigation. Minister, are the name and origin of the organization being charged known? How can an investigation be initiated in this case? What procedures should be followed to withdraw funding from NGOs charged with such misdemeanours? In the event that the aid has not been properly allocated – which is clearly the case here – can the European Union claim restitution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u22	Ms Jadin, most of the NGOs dealing with refugees in Greece who receive European aid are supported by the Commission under the emergency aid instrument activated in March 2016 for a period of three years by a Council regulation (Regulation 2016/369). With regard to project monitoring and monitoring of the proper use of EU funding, Commission experts deployed in Greece cooperate closely with implementing organisations and monitor projects financed by the Union in order to ensure their efficiency. The monitoring procedures introduced include fraud prevention and reporting measures and a mechanism for responding to the various irregularities found. Through these monitoring tools, the Commission has recently identified two grounds for serious complaints concerning an NGO. One concerns the fraudulent use of European funds, the other concerns serious suspicions of the sexual exploitation of refugees. With regard to the fraud complaint, OLAF, in accordance with the procedures in force, is currently conducting an investigation. With regard to suspicions of sexual exploitation of migrants, the Commission has informed the competent Greek authorities as this is a criminal offence that falls within the competence of the Member States. The follow-up to this procedure will depend on the evolution and results of OLAF's investigation. I also note that the payment of funds to NGOs suspected of fraud, corruption or illegal activities is suspended during OLAF's investigation. Depending on the results of the investigation, it is possible that the funds may be permanently suspended or that the NGO concerned may have to return the funds already collected. That's the usual procedure. The Commission provides humanitarian aid throughout the world through numerous NGOs and mentions a few cases of organisations whose funds have been suspended or who have had to return funds. However, the Commission cannot communicate the number and names of these NGOs as some investigations are still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u23	Mr President, Minister, as you may know, I examined the use of digital platforms and social media through diplomacy a year ago. I have looked at how the government applies itself abroad via social media and what message it sends. It is an important instrument which is now part of a current and modern diplomatic policy. My attention was drawn by a call from the social media, in which our embassies, through the project "Invite an Ambassador', give organisations the opportunity to invite a diplomat. That's an interesting project. How big or how small is the success of this project? Is there an evaluation planned yet? Who were the users who responded to the call? How is it paid? Is there an extensive or a modest cost element in this? How did you select the individuals to be one of those ambassadors? How does this group of people come about? Are those volunteers or individuals who were designated as Chinese volunteers to do this, if they want to stay on a good page with the FPS? Was the question also put to the regional representatives? Were they involved in this in order to proclaim the complementary story of our federal complexity through Invite an Ambassador?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u24	Mr President, this is a new initiative of the Press and Communication Directorate, launched in December 2016. To date, this initiative has been called upon a dozen times, about twice a month. Indeed, an evaluation is foreseen by the end of 2017, after a period of approximately one year. The programme is open to all Belgian organisations. In practice, Femmes MR du Brabant wallon, International Association for the Exchange of Students for Technical Experience of the University of Ghent, VVN several times, UNRIC, Jong CD&V, Olivaint Society, University Foundation in Brussels, University of Antwerp, EURON Modern Association in Leuven, VVN Youth Leuven, ELSA European Law Students' Association in Leuven and Fedasil. That's a pretty diverse group. A speaker may always refuse if he or she does not feel familiar with the subject or refers to another speaker on the list. This program generates no costs. The speakers are volunteers and will not be reimbursed. Supplementing the list of speakers is done on a voluntary basis. Both active employees and retired former colleagues are welcome. This is an initiative of the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. In principle, our speakers are competent for all the themes covered by these terms. However, it should be noted that senior diplomats who were already employed as ambassadors were asked and that the themes were always of a political nature and not of an economic nature. Cooperation with the Regions and the Communities has not been discussed for these reasons so far, but of course I am not ruling that out in the future, should there be any interest on their part. After all, civil society should get to know more about the workings, the thematic variety and the diplomats of our country in all its parts. I believe that, after an initial evaluation, it will be possible to make a proposal to the Regions and the Communities at the end of 2017. Why not take the same initiative with the representatives of the various federated entities abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u25	Minister, it is a good initiative. I would almost suspect that you have come to get the mustard from us, because we have been organising a similar initiative in our group for several years, including your current director, the former Ambassador Johan Swinnen, and Mr Axel Buyse, who represents the approach from the federated Flemish state. I think it is a very good initiative. You've listed the list. Can you give me this list in writing? Thank you for that. As you can see, the N-VA has not yet been a requesting party among the organisations that have called on this initiative. That's because we created an offer ourselves. However, I will certainly follow it up further. In this context, I will very soon examine the representation of the FPS Foreign Affairs in other areas, such as social media and facebook. I have heard that there are good initiatives and that in your services too, people have been behind them to improve things. We'll follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u26	Mr President, Minister, on his first trip abroad, President Trump gave a speech to a panel of representatives of Muslim countries on the subject of Islamic extremism and, according to the US President, Iran's support for terrorism. His speech contrasted with those held during the campaign and his desire to deny access to the United States to Muslims. What appears to be a change in external policy also seems to be reflected in reality in a rapprochement between the United States and Saudi Arabia in the fight against terrorism. Minister, what analysis do your services make of President Trump's speech and his rapprochement with Saudi Arabia? What consequences will the accusations made against Iran have on Iran's relations with the European Union? What could be the impact on the stability and regional balance of greater involvement of Muslim countries in the fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u27	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates announced on Monday, 5 June, the breakdown of their diplomatic relations with Qatar, accused of supporting terrorism, including Al-Qaeda, the Islamic State Group and the Muslim Brotherhood. On 20 and 21 May in Saudi Arabia, Donald Trump had identified Iran as the source of all terrorism. An unblemished support for the policy advocated by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, which, together with Bahrain and Egypt, are on a hard line against Shiite Iran and the Sunni Muslim Brotherhood. Qatar has always ensured good relations with Iran and has given asylum to militants of the Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas, who have been chased by its neighbours. A real campaign started against Qatar from there, to the point that, just a few hours before the announcement of the breakdown of relations by Bahrain, the Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Egypt, Qatar was preparing to expel Hamas members to lower the tension. It remains to be seen what the Sultanate of Oman, which also has always maintained good relations with Iran, and Kuwait, which in recent days has attempted a mediation between Qatar and Saudi Arabia, will do. The message sent by Riyadh is clear: all those among his neighbours who do not align themselves with his hostile position against Iran will now be considered enemies. "These measures have a clear objective: to place Qatar under guardianship, which is a violation of its sovereignty," said Qatar's Foreign Minister. This breakdown in diplomatic relations is geographically isolated from Qatar. Qatar is a peninsula whose only land border is with Saudi Arabia. But in the longer term, it is the great American base in Qatar that could be concerned. The Emirates, which already have a French base, would dream of seeing the American base move to their home. Minister, what are the possible consequences for Belgium and Europe of a burning in the Middle East, fuelled by Donald Trump's Manichean statements? Given the concentration of oil producers in the region, are there already signals of febrileness in international markets, with the consequences that one imagines? I could add gas production because there is a common basement in Iran and Qatar, I believe. Since the crisis in Ukraine, the price of oil has been kept at the lowest. Would such a crisis in the Middle East be a perfidious way of creating a sharp increase in the price of the barrel while maintaining official measures against Russia? Mr President, I now come to my second question. Minister, events continued following President Trump's visit. I would have liked to know the interests of Riyadh and his allies to break up their relations with Qatar. It is indeed difficult to establish a link between events. What impact will this rupture have on relations between external countries such as the United States, which have established their regional military command in Qatar, and Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u28	Pending the arrival of Mrs Onkelinx, I propose that the Minister respond to the two questions relating to Mr Trump's statements and to relations between the United States and Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President Trump's speech focused on Iran's role in the region and the need for local actors to be more assertive in the fight against terrorism. Belgium, for its part, supports any initiative aimed at strengthening the fight against terrorism and its financing. We believe that all the regional actors concerned must be involved in order to combat this phenomenon effectively and to resolve the various regional crises, as is the case in Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Libya. Saudi Arabia has a certain local influence. Hence the need to maintain a dialogue with that country, inter alia, on these issues. As we have seen in recent weeks, tensions have worsened in this region of the Gulf – I will return to that in response to the following questions. We agree with the US President on the need to strengthen the fight against terrorism, but believe that in order to resolve the major regional crises and regain local stability, a dialogue – albeit critical – with Iran is essential. In our view, the divisions in the Gulf constitute a handicap in the fight against terrorism. As you know, the countries of the region are all affected and affected by this scourge. Indeed, the vast majority of victims live in the Middle East. Several countries in the region are engaged in the fight against terrorism within the framework of the international coalition against Daesh – whether military or countering terrorism financing. Strong international cooperation is and will remain necessary in order to contribute to the stability of the region and to the containment of this scourge. To answer your other questions, I can provide you with the following information. A slight fluctuation in gas and oil prices was observed immediately after Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates broke up their relations with Qatar – we will return. Several experts in the press said that the energy sector would not have to suffer too much from the current crisis. Some logistical problems are possible in the transport of liquid gas. After the crisis broke out, the price of the barrel of oil ranged from 45 to 55 dollars. Experts expect the price to remain stable. It is no secret to anyone that Saudi Arabia would like a higher price. This would support the financing of its new economic policy entitled "Vision 2030". At the end of last year, OPEC and non-OPEC countries entered into a production reduction agreement to reduce reserves and thereby stabilize prices. At the end of May, this agreement was extended. I propose that you then address the specific issues relating to the Gulf crisis and its consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u30	Thank you very much, Minister, for taking stock and clarifying the attitude of the European Union and our country in trying to strengthen the dialogue between the Gulf countries, and for continuing to engage in an equal dialogue with all the Gulf countries. This is important for the pacification of the region. We'll get back to it. As you have pointed out, we must not lose sight of the need, including for many Gulf countries that suffer far more than we do in our countries, to stem the phenomenon of terrorism, which seems to me to be an essential element. The information you gave us is consistent with my analysis of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u31	Minister, for the second part of my question, I will wait because it is related to the questions that still need to be asked. On the other hand, we find ourselves somewhat on a powder keg. It is hoped that in the coming weeks, the problem of the "Naz Islamists" – I prefer to call them such as to mention them under the name of Daesh – will be resolved on the ground. Of course, other dangers in other regions will remain. What is happening with Mr Trump's statements is extremely challenging. Indeed, it seems to encourage Saudi Arabia's war-end. In any case, that is how they will interpret it. On the contrary, we are at a time when things should be calmed down, especially in Iran, where the situation is not easy. Even if reformers have won, they are, if I may say so, very conservative reformers, unfortunately. Let us remember that Iran, Saudi Arabia and China are the three countries where there are the most executions. It's really challenging.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u32	Mr Minister, my question is a little older, but the coincidence is that this week in Knack there is an interview with a Flemish specialist who is working as a professor in Qatar, Mr Gerd Nonneman. In fact, that is a very readingable piece which goes beyond a number of clichés and which deals with the subject which has already been raised here and which we are now developing a little further. It is, of course, the diplomatic split between Saudi Arabia and its allies, Egypt, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates, and Qatar. Later the Maldives, Yemen and Libya followed. Officially, it points out support for Qatar's terror and the destabilisation of the region, with of course Iran always showing up in the background. In the discourse of Saudi Arabia and its allies Qatar has a very distinct attitude. This creates a situation with on one side the Shiites and on the other side a divided Sunni world, which, of course, only makes the situation more fragile. We have seen Saudi Arabia in the past, strictly technically speaking, as a stabilising factor in the region, but that is less and less the case. There are also Turkey's role and Qatar's ties with the Muslim Brotherhood. Furthermore, President Trump's role is unclear. However, the impression has emerged that his visit to Saudi Arabia has given the green light to Riyadh to be more explicit. The Saudis seem to feel strengthened by the President's visit. Today it has become known in the media that Qatar has responded to the demands of Saudi Arabia and its allies, but its content is not yet known. In any case, we are faced with a destabilising element in an already unstable region. I come to my questions. What are the consequences of the current situation for Belgians in Qatar, which is a young, flourishing economic power, especially in that region? Does Saudi Arabia's attitude with its allies have an impact on our policy in the Middle East and on the way we look at it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u33	Mr President, Mr Minister, I do not know whether, in your committee, you have already spoken about the situation of the breakdown of diplomatic relations between Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Yemen and Egypt with Qatar. Minister, I tabled my question on June 16. A plug has been disconnected there too and it is a question of seeing what the consequences will be. Saudi Arabia thus closed its land and sea border with the Emirate. Egypt and six Gulf airlines suspended their flights with Qatar. Qatar, for its part, believes that the breakdown of diplomatic ties is based on unfounded allegations. This also raises the question of our own diplomatic relations with Qatar. Under the previous legislature, on the occasion of the granting to Qatar of the organisation of the World Cup of Football in 2022, the PS had already asked the question of our relations with a country where respect for fundamental human rights and decent working conditions on construction sites was highlighted. This is, of course, the question of support for terrorism. It was obvious that you were asked the question to have your assessment of the allegations made by this coalition of the three countries of the Gulf, Yemen and Egypt. What do you think of these allegations? What attitude are we going to adopt at Belgian and European Union level? What will be our regional approach? This is a sensitive subject in view of the growing importance of Qatar's presence and investment in a number of European Union countries, including ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u34	Colleagues, several factors can be put forward to explain the current crisis between Qatar and some of its neighbours, including Saudi Arabia. Doha is accused, among other things, of hosting terrorist and sectarian groups, such as Hamas and the Muslim Brotherhood, of financing them, of promoting the literature and programmes of these groups through its media, as well as of supporting terrorist groups active in the region. Qatar is also accused of failing to deliver on its promises made in the Riyadh agreement following the 2013-2014 diplomatic crisis. The precise content of this agreement has not been made public, which does not allow us to know all the details of it. A certain rapprochement between Qatar and Iran may have also had an influence in this crisis. Of course, we are concerned about the situation. Belgium encourages all parties to the dialogue in order to avoid any escalation of the crisis and a polarization of the conflict. This is also what we are calling for at European level and the message I brought at the Foreign Affairs Council on 19 June. I think it is in plenary that we have already had an opportunity to discuss this situation. Following the break of diplomatic relations and the imposition of economic sanctions by Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt, a list of 13 demands was handed over to Qatar on 22 June 2017, which should be accepted within 10 days. On Monday 3 July 2017, we learned that the deadline was extended by two days. One of the demands is the closure of the Turkish military base currently established in Qatar. Qatar has immediately responded that it considers the demands both unacceptable and unrealistic, but remains prepared to engage in dialogue. A further escalation of the current crisis is in nobody's interest. However, the road to a solution is still a long one and recent developments will make Kuwait's role as a mediator more difficult. The international community is trying, through diplomatic channels, to remove the situation in order to create an appropriate climate so that Kuwait, I repeat, can continue its task of mediation under the best conditions. The situation on the ground is calm. The Qatari authorities have assured the population that no effects will be felt in daily life. Life goes its own way. There are also no noticeable shortages in the purchase of food. The government has ensured that there is no concern about this either because there are sufficient alternative supply channels. Our post in Doha is, of course, following the situation very closely. For our compatriots staying in Qatar, travelling to the United Arab Emirates may become more difficult because no more visas would be issued to the holders of a Qatari residence permit. Even if that measure did not apply to the Schengen countries and in the light of the visa waiver agreement, our post will continue to follow closely so that our fellow countrymen can move freely, especially now that the holiday period is announcing. On 8 June, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Barhein and Egypt issued a list containing the names of 59 individuals and 12 entities accused of terrorism. Belgium obviously supports in general any initiative aimed at combating terrorism and its financing. However, it is a matter of encouraging all parties concerned to step up their efforts in this area and not just Qatar. Belgium aligned itself with the statements made on 9 June by the High Representative of the European Union, Federica Mogherini, who called for dialogue and expressed support for the mediation efforts undertaken by the Emir of Kuwait. Indeed, a resumption of dialogue between the GCC countries will prevent this crisis from having a negative impact on relations with third countries. The United States maintains strong diplomatic, economic and military ties with the various parties to the crisis, including Qatar with the presence of the United States regional military command. In the meantime US Secretary of State Tillerson has called for renewed dialogue and stressed that common interests, namely the fight against terrorism and extremism, are stronger than differences. Beyond the discussions that we have already conducted, I would like to add and repeat that, first of all, we are involved in a number of steps with the Gulf countries, whether Saudi Arabia or Qatar, particularly in the military coalitions against Daesh, since the military base at Al Udeid, which is south-east of Doha, includes, I believe, 8,000 American soldiers and it is also here that our soldiers are in charge of monitoring operations. For the moment, operations are being carried out with our F-16s from a base in Jordan, but the military command of the entire region is located in Al-Udeid. There are contacts with Qatar, Saudi Arabia and also with other countries in military action on the field. Secondly, we also have economic interests in Qatar, as in Saudi Arabia and many other countries in the region. Qatar is a gas supplier, but there are also many Belgian companies present in Qatar. I have already given some details about our countrymen who live there. I regularly receive requests from companies who wish to visit. Mrs Onkelinx, to answer your question as to what relations we can maintain, I have again received a request from a Walloon company to be able to obtain the support of our embassy in Tehran to fly over Iran in order to travel to Qatar, to be able to present military equipment there. We will probably have to discuss with the Regions how we will develop our relations with each country, in particular Qatar. For the time being, the requests that I have received relate to facilitating the overflight of Iran to Qatar. The third element concerns the call for dialogue. Together with the European Union, we will take the initiative to contact the representatives of the whole region, namely the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). I have already said the following in the debate in plenary. I have received a question from my colleagues from Qatar and Saudi Arabia to be in touch. We will organise this and have direct contact with the two countries, through the two fellow Foreign Ministers. I repeat that it is important that we insist on all our partners so that the fight against the financing of terrorist groups or the financing of the dissemination of radical or extremist ideas can stop. This request is addressed to several countries in the region and not exclusively in Qatar. Beyond that, I remain convinced – as I told the Secretary-General of the United Nations at our last meeting a few weeks ago in New York – that it is the role of the United Nations to try to organize, in the months or years to come, a real dialogue between the Sunni world and the Shiite world. As long as we cannot put around the table countries that claim to each of the orientations of Islam, for example Iran and Saudi Arabia, I believe that we will allow proxies, wars by intermediary, which are known in the region, from Yemen to Iraq, Syria or Libya to develop. Even in Lebanon, external influences are very strong. There was Yalta after the Second World War, there was Helsinki to try to bring security to the European continent. If we can't get those responsible for the main currents of Islam and the main states involved in the region to talk to each other, I think we won't get out of it. Mr De Roover, it is necessary not only to engage in dialogue with Saudi Arabia or Qatar, but also with Iran, Turkey and other countries in the region. At the moment, we are trying to have a dialogue with the various countries. That's not easy. There is, as has been said, an initiative by Kuwait to do so. This is now the best possible initiative in the region. We will also continue to maintain direct contact with both sides, and contacts with the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u35	Minister, you have spoken about the need for a calming in the region, as the freezing of relations continues – or worse – to the point of causing disturbances of which the gravity is not sufficiently imagined. So when you say that dialogue must be encouraged in order to reduce tensions - particularly through the United States - and wait until we see what initiative Kuwait can take in this regard, I answer you: of course. And I can only congratulate all those who work in this direction. However, it turns out that the allegations are characterized by their seriousness, since it is a question of support for international terrorism. That's not bullshit. Of course, it is important that all these countries calm down and eventually agree. However, we do not consider what these allegations, if proven, would entail as consequences for our country. In other words, if another attack is committed here, it will no longer be necessary to ask for the establishment of a commission of inquiry into the attacks, but to try to understand in what way a particular country is one of the predominant actors, one of the protagonists, and to know whether or not our country has been right to neglect, in its diplomatic action, the signals addressed to it. Objectively, in this second part of my question, I did not get an answer. You haven't seen the ambassador of Qatar. I do not know exactly what the content of your discussions at European level was about the veracity of the allegations. So, as far as mediation and the need for further dialogue are concerned, I fully share your position; as much on the aspect of the terrorist threat and support for what is unfortunately our daily lot in the European Union, I remain very sincerely on my hunger.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u36	Mr Minister, when I referred to the interview in Knack, it was not only because the person concerned has a very positive opinion on your policy at the end. I'm sure you won't disagree. It also contains a number of important and sharp insights. You referred to Turkey's military interests and, of course, to the United States in Qatar. This seems to be a regional problem, but it nevertheless carries important global aspects. We must be aware that what has bound us is also pointed out in the international press over the past few days, namely the fight against IS, which has been waged with various degrees of intensity, was formal, and that we must now realise, by reducing and eliminating IS in the territory, that this does not necessarily make the region more stable. On the contrary, the parties with various interests are now going to meet physically on the front. We are already seeing a number of examples of this today. There is probably a general agreement in the fight against terrorism and extremism, but that agreement falls away from the moment those terms are given meaning. When those words are given substance, it will become clear that what one calls a terrorist or extremist is an ally to the other and vice versa. We are sitting there with the rather forceful figure of Mohammad bin Salman is Saudi Arabia, which at the same time gives hope but also justifies some restraint because people can also be too activist. In your reply, and we support you in that, of course, you say that we must make use of the relations we have, whether through Kuwait or not. Against the background of the problems that we have discussed both in committee and in plenary over the last few weeks, I would like to conclude by saying that we can only use our relations if there are relations. It is of the utmost importance that we keep a number of doors open in this area, inter alia because, in addition to the global aspects involved, there is always the risk of terrorism, which is unfortunately also very active in our countries at certain times. The conditions in the Middle East are changing rapidly and, above all, dramatically. This means that our approach to the problem must also remain flexible, especially at tactical level. What seemed to be facts six months ago is obsolete today. We support you in dealing with this with the necessary sense of realism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u37	Mr President, Minister Dhaka Tribune, a newspaper in Dhaka, relayed the remarks of the head of an elite police battalion, who said that he had arrested 27 homosexuals in a community centre in the city. It appears that drugs and condoms were also discovered at the scene. However, the police did not specify whether they were going to be prosecuted for possession and use of drugs or for homosexuality. According to a law inherited from the British Empire, same-sex relationships are illegal in Bangladesh. Beyond the case of this massive arrest, homosexuals in Bangladesh live in permanent fear of being imprisoned. Worse, they are also the target of radical Islamists. For example, two leaders of LGBTQI human rights associations were murdered in 2016, making this entire community afraid to be discovered, and pushing it into hiding. Before the Human Rights Council – where Belgium is represented – meeting in Geneva in early March, Bangladesh's Minister of Justice, Anisul Huq, reiterated his refusal to end the criminalization of homosexuality: "We live in a country where these rights are surely alien to us. Our society is not yet ready for such liberalisation," he said. Minister, I would like to remind you that you are a great advocate of these issues in the world. Moreover, we unanimously voted in Parliament just a few months ago on a motion on the decriminalization of homosexuality in the world. What do you think of this situation and how do you intend to relay your position on Bangladesh, particularly through our embassy? Do you intend to put this item on the agenda of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, so that the weight of our condemnation is stronger? As a member of the Human Rights Committee, what action could Belgium take at this level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u38	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, you know that this is an issue on which I have the opportunity to address a number of colleagues and countries on a regular basis. This is very often done in coordination with the European Union. This is again the case with Bangladesh, since we do not have an embassy in Dhaka. We are monitoring developments in cooperation with delegations from the European Union on the spot. Our country continues to refer to the human rights situation with Bangladesh. I did so recently during the Minister of Justice's visit to Brussels on 10 May, and my services do so at their level. With regard to the arrest of the 27 homosexuals, the vast majority was released without charge. Five persons remain in pre-trial detention for possession of drugs. The European Union and its Member States remain aware of this issue, both in Dhaka where they follow developments closely and in Brussels. Indeed, LGBTQI rights in Bangladesh were on the agenda of the European Union-Bangladesh subcommittee on human rights, democracy and good governance, which met on 20 December 2016. The issue can again be discussed at the meeting of the European Union-Bangladesh Joint Committee scheduled for 12 July in Brussels. In general, the European Union and its Member States expect Bangladesh to comply with its preferential treatment obligations, particularly when it comes to human rights in all their aspects. With regard to your last question, it seems to me that it relates to the Human Rights Council and not to the Human Rights Committee, which is a body composed of independent experts who monitor the implementation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights by States parties. At the level of the Human Rights Council, Belgium supports the resolution on sexual orientation and gender identity. This resolution created in 2016 the mandate of the independent expert on protection against violence and discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. We will continue to act in that direction. On the specific file that you have addressed, as I have told you, a large number of people are now released and we will monitor the situation of those who remain in detention. The exact allegations and evidence of them, including possession of drugs, will need to be verified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u39	Mr Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response, which is very much in line with your action over the past few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u40	Minister, on May 17, 1990, the World Health Organization removed homosexuality from mental illness. However, in China, for years, textbooks used in universities have always taught that "homosexuality is a disease". A Chinese student, who reported her homosexuality, refused to let herself go. Qiu Bai therefore went to the Minister of Education to ask him to remove these homophobic textbooks from the programs. After having been refused, she brought the matter before the court. She has a lot of courage but the judges also ignore it and continue to reject the case. Qiu Bai recently ended up being heard by one of the largest Chinese publishing houses publishing teaching manuals. They promised to remove homophobic content from their books. Minister, can you tell me from your information whether, for China, homosexuality is a disease or not? Can you remind me if China is a Member State of the WHO? Can you tell me, if so, whether or not membership of WHO can force a country to follow its decisions? If so, what steps could Belgium take to invite China to review its textbooks and university textbooks or to formally comply with the WHO on the status of homosexuality?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u41	Mr Flahaux, since the psychiatry society in China removed homosexuality from its list of mental illnesses in 2003, homosexuality is no longer considered to be such in China. I confirm that China is also a Member State of the WHO. A WHO member country cannot be forced to follow the decisions taken within the Organization. WHO is only helping Governments, at their request, to strengthen and maintain national public health capacities. According to the Chinese authorities, some textbooks are still not adapted due to lack of resources. But I must also confirm that although China officially accepts the WHO's interpretation of homosexuality, the social acceptance of homosexuality remains limited. By subscribing to local initiatives, our positions in China support NGOs committed to raising awareness and organizing calls for the recognition and protection of the rights of the Chinese LGBTQI community. The problem is, therefore, first of all, to see how to get into practice, on a daily basis, what has been decided at the national level but is probably not yet the subject of strong social acceptance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u42	Thank you, Minister, your answers are extremely complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u43	Minister, the Reuter agency tells us that the Indonesian police raided a building in Jakarta with a gymnasium and sauna on Sunday, May 21. She arrested 141 men suspected of participating in a gay party. This arrest is a further sign of the repression suffered by the homosexual community in this country with an overwhelming Muslim majority. However, homosexuality is legal throughout Indonesia except in the conservative province of Aceh, which applies Islamic law. For some time now, hostility against Indonesia's small LGBT community has been growing. Ministers, conservatives and Islamist groups have publicly spoken about homophobic issues. Some members of the government have launched a media campaign since January 2016 against the LGBT community, which they accuse of threatening national morality. It would appear that, in a comprehensive way, the Indonesian population is open and tolerant of homosexuals. Only a few members of the government are distinguished by their homophobia. Minister, are you aware of a homophobic campaign that started in Indonesia in January 2016? Are you also aware of this mass arrest of 141 people? What do you think of this situation? How do you intend to convey your position on Indonesia, particularly through our embassy and through the Council of Ministers of the European Union? Our country, a member of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, what action could Belgium take at this level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u44	Mr Flahaux, although homosexuality is legal in Indonesia, a country that is generally open and tolerant, the subject remains sensitive. In recent years, my services have observed that Islamist groups are attacking LGBTQI protests in the country. Our embassy in Jakarta alerted me directly after the events of 21 May 2017. It is known that 141 people were arrested on the evening of May 21 in a club sauna in Jakarta where they participated in a party called "The wild one". The arrests were also the subject of articles in the Belgian and international press. According to our information, most people have since been released, but at least 10 people are prosecuted on the basis of articles 4 and 10 of the Pornography Act. On 2 June, the Belgian Embassy joined an approach taken by the European Union Delegation in Indonesia regarding the LGBTQI community. The delegation denounced the discrimination endured by the community as a minority. The discussion was frank and constructive, as is regularly said; Indonesia took note of European concerns, while adding that the Indonesian Government was fully committed to the defence and protection of human rights. With regard to your last question, it seems to me that it concerns the Human Rights Council and not the Committee. The latter, as I said in my previous reply, is a body composed of independent experts who monitor the implementation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights by States parties. As a member of the Human Rights Council, Belgium supports the resolution on sexual orientation and gender identity. This resolution created in 2016 the mandate of the independent expert on protection against violence and discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u45	Minister, here too, your answer is quite complete. I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u46	Minister, the Filipino island of Mindanao has been plagued for several decades by various rebel groups of diverse plumage. Although there have been peace negotiations with the main groups in recent years, there are still smaller but, above all, radical groups that are becoming increasingly active and violent. The Maute group is one of them. This group has intensive connections to IS. The group has recently become more militant, probably also in order to gain recognition of IS. In the meantime, he also joins another pro-IS group, Abu Sayyaf. The Maute group has also in the past committed several attacks in the Philippines, including a recent bombing.. Recently, the situation has escalated further, after a failed raid by the Philippine police to arrest Abu Sayyaf's leader. After that, the Maute terrorists took over large parts of Marawi, allowing them to form a human shield against the government forces. The Filipino President Duterte has promised to be relentless, but has warned for several years about the contagion of IS in the Philippines, as the wars in Syria and Iraq seem to be at their disadvantage. In February of this year, the Filipino Minister of Defence stressed that IS provided financial support to IS-related groups in the Philippines. More and more foreign fighters are also joining, including from neighbouring countries such as Malaysia and Indonesia. Now that the battle in Iraq and Syria seems to run against IS, it looks like some foreign fighters are about to move. It is feared that they will move towards Asia, including the Philippines. The action in Marawi may indicate a certain success in shifting their battlefield, so to speak. My questions are as follows. How do you see the situation in the Philippines evolving? To what extent do you see the risk of contamination for neighbouring countries, such as Malaysia or Indonesia? Do you see opportunities to reverse this trend through international fora?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u47	Mrs Capoen, I will try to answer your three questions. Mindanao and the smaller islands in the south of the Philippines have a long history of violent terrorist secession movements that simultaneously rely on extremist religious views. Due to Daesh's attractive surf, several of these original movements have pledged their loyalty to Daesh without the official establishment of a Daesh province. The Philippine government has proclaimed the martial law in Mindanao, but the Philippine security forces are bumping into strong resistance from the terrorist cells. Good news is that the key players in the peace process remain on board. This does not seem likely to allow the combination of IS and existing terrorist movements to overthrow the local institutional structure in the long term. However, without a drastic economic revival of the southern Philippines and without a long-term peace agreement, it seems that the region will be facing this phenomenon for some time to come. The recent successes against Daesh in Syria and Iraq are no reason not to see any further terrorist activity in the south of the Philippines. They have different motives than just the affiliation with Daesh. Unlike Malaysia and Indonesia, IS and related movements have managed to control certain areas in Mindanao, which gives them a base for training and a hiding place for foreign fighters, including possible returns from Syria and Iraq. So the risk of contamination remains real, but in both directions. The neighbouring countries of the Philippines have a negative impact of terrorist violence on their regional trade and development. The Foreign Ministers of Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines met in Manila on 22 June for a trilateral security meeting. On this occasion, a 15 point action plan was adopted to combat terrorism and violent extremism. This is based on a comprehensive approach, including cross-border actions to reduce the risk of contamination. The Philippines are members of Asia/Pacific Group on Money Laundering but not of the Global Counterterrorism Forum. However, ASEAN is an important partner of the Global Counterterrorism Forum. The Philippines are also not members of the Advisory Board of the UN Counter-Terrorism Center. Within ASEAN, there is a clear recognition of the need for more intra-regional cooperation in tackling terrorism. Cooperation with the partners of the region, EU, Japan, Australia, is also stepped up. That is why Belgian and European support for the EU-ASEAN Action Plan 2018-2022 is very important. This Action Plan aims at combating cross-border crimes and addressing non-traditional security issues. The Belgian-Filipino Joint Plan of Action 2013 also provides for an exchange of information and cooperation in the field of international terrorism. I have been in contact with a number of colleagues from several ASEAN Member States. We are always trying to bring about an exchange of information, but also to see regional action against terrorist groups. I told you, cross-border actions are the most important for the region and certainly also for foreign fighters. The perpetrator of the first terrorist attack in Brussels, on May 24, 2014, at the Jewish Museum, was a Frenchman who had also been to Syria and Iraq after a trip to several Asian countries, and then returned to Brussels. We need to have more and more contact to ask for a real exchange of information, but also a real regional action between the different ASEAN countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u48	Minister, I personally think it is a good idea to continue supporting ASEAN in its plans to tackle terrorism. Improved intelligence can also only benefit the countries on the ground, but also Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u49	Minister, in March Taiwan was not invited to participate in the World Health Assembly on 8 May. We suspect once again an attempt by China to put pressure on Taiwan's international mobile space. Nine years ago, Taiwan acquired observer status in the same World Health Assembly. It has to be said, since then Taiwan has actively contributed to many technical discussions, both at the World Health Assembly and at the World Health Organisation. This has also affected the fight against certain diseases in Taiwan and in the world. Diseases and health, of course, have no limits. We therefore regret that Taiwan was not present at the latest World Health Assembly. Let me give you an example. Taiwan manages the Taipei Flight Information Region, which controls 60 million travellers per year for various diseases, e.g. Ebola and Zika virus. The many millions of migratory birds flying over Taiwan and using that country as a stop point also make Taiwan an important link to monitor the avian flu. Minister, countries such as the United States, Canada and Japan supported Taiwan's presence in the World Health Assembly. What is Belgium's position on this issue? Has there been a common position within the European Union on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u50	Mr Luykx, in line with the one-China policy, Belgium is in favour of a significant participation of Taiwan in specialised multilateral fora if this participation is in general and in the European interest and in so far as these fora are not exclusively reserved for sovereign nations. This Belgian position is fully in line with the EU consensus established in the China Reference Lines, adopted on 24 September 2014. There is a consensus among all European countries to maintain the same direction. Belgium encourages China and Taiwan to find a pragmatic solution through dialogue to Taiwan's participation in international organisations. If this fails, as is currently the case, Taiwan is encouraged by the European Union institutions to develop alternative strategies for international engagement through practical cooperation at technical level. We will continue in the same direction and ask China to evolve towards a pragmatic solution for Taiwan's participation in different organisations. But sometimes we get a negative answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand the diplomatic and pragmatic attitude, but here there is a departure from a certain tradition that worked and produced good results. I hope that, in addition to the public and diplomatic response, Belgium will ask with a clear voice in the European Assembly that this needs to be resolved and that Taiwan will certainly have to sit at the table at another World Health Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u52	Minister, in South America, only Uruguay, Guyana and Cuba allow abortion in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy, while Argentina - through a Supreme Court decision - authorized abortions in case of rape in 2012. Brazil, for its part, allows abortions in cases of rape, danger to the life of the mother or fetal malformation. The situation is quite different in El Salvador. While this country has already inhuman legislation, according to human rights associations, the extreme right-wing or extreme right-wing political party, Arena, has proposed to increase prison sentences in case of abortion. Women could thus risk up to fifty years of detention. Fifty years in prison is the penalty that may be imposed on Salvadoran women convicted of having resorted to a voluntary termination of pregnancy. The aforementioned party introduced a bill to that effect in 2015. The country already prohibits abortion in all circumstances. Women face up to 30 years in prison, while doctors who help them face 12 years in prison. According to several investigations, it is customary for the Salvadoran authorities to confuse "abortion" with "false diaper". Thus, in September 2013, Glenda Xiomara Cruz's sentence fell: she received ten years in prison for miscarriage. On 30 October 2012, the 19-year-old Salvadoran girl experienced abdominal pain. In the hospital, she's told she's pregnant. Yet, she continued to have her rules on a regular basis. So nothing could have made her think that she was pregnant. All the more so since the girl from Puerto el Triunfo had undergone a negative test in May of the same year. Minister, it seems to me that we do not have an embassy in El Salvador, but what information can we collect? What are the means of pressure available to our country? Belgium and El Salvador maintain links under the agreement concluded in Tegucigalpa on 29 June 2012 establishing an association between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Central America, on the other. Could you refer the matter to the European Council in order, possibly, to put pressure on El Salvador through this agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u53	Mr Flahaux, my services are aware of the situation of women undergoing miscarriage in El Salvador. El Salvador applies one of the most restrictive abortion laws in the world. Abortion is not permitted under any circumstances, not even when the mother's life is in danger. El Salvador has also established a presumption of guilt against women who suffer from complications during pregnancy or in cases of spontaneous miscarriage. Women's rights, including reproductive and sexual rights, are an ongoing priority, as you know, in our country's international human rights policy. I raised this specific issue during the bilateral meeting with my Salvadoran colleague, Mr Martinez, on 7 March. I have expressed my concern about the restrictive abortion legislation in Belgium, as well as about that of civil society and politics in Belgium. My counterpart told me that the government was going to hold a debate in parliament with a view to making this law more flexible. Belgium does not have an embassy in El Salvador, but is monitoring the situation from Panama City, in cooperation with the United Nations European delegation on the spot. Women's autonomy is one of the priorities of the European human rights strategy. The strategy emphasizes the importance of supporting gender-based violence prevention and sexual and reproductive health prevention. The European Union financially supports several projects, including a project that provides legal assistance and social support to ensure access to appropriate legal remedies. With regard to your last question, I refer you again to my comment on the previous questions. It seems that this is more about the Council of the European Union this time, and not about the Council of Europe, an intergovernmental organisation based in Strasbourg. So you'll have corrected. Belgium would like to rely on the relevant instruments of the Association Agreement between the European Union and Central America, but they can only be used after the full entry into force of the Agreement, i.e. after the ratification of the Agreement by all Member States. I would remind you that Belgium has not yet ratified this agreement, because not all Belgian parliaments have yet ratified it. I would therefore urge once again that the approval process be completed as soon as possible in Belgium, and that our country join the 22 Member States that have already ratified the agreement. I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that the blockage in some federated entities means that we do not have the opportunity to use the instruments of the Association Agreements to intervene in such matters. I hope we can move forward. For the rest, I have not had any follow-up so far to the announcement of a possible relaxation or debate that would allow for a possible relaxation of the law, but we will continue to monitor the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u54	Thank you, Minister. Your answer is particularly comprehensive. I hope that as far as this famous agreement is concerned, we will soon be able to reconnect the plug.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u55	Mr President, Minister, according to various American press reviews analysing the G7 Summit and the NATO meeting, the relations between Chancellor Angela Merkel and the President of the United States are at the lowest. I believe that this will not improve with the preparation of the G20. "The time when we could rely entirely on each other is almost over. I've experienced it in the last few days. We Europeans must take charge of our destiny." This sentence of Angela Merkel will certainly become historical. That is what she said when she returned to Germany, after the NATO meeting in Brussels and the G7 summit in Sicily. "The chancellor does not name him directly, but it is clear that his remarks are the result of President Trump's catastrophic tour of Europe," says The Los Angeles Times. "His refusal to commit himself to Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, the fact that he leaves doubt about his intentions regarding whether or not to retain the United States in the Paris agreements on climate change, or his doubtful position vis-à-vis Moscow, make the most influential of European leaders today believe that the United States is no longer a reliable partner." Angela Merkel's statement is all the more important because "the chancellor is a cautious personality, quite the opposite of Donald Trump," notes the Washington Post. "And her well thought out words show that Mrs Merkel now wants to change the European Union so that it is stronger, more independent, especially from the United States. If the Chancellor wins the parliamentary elections next September in a convincing way and if she gets enough support from other states, she could initiate a profound change in relations between the United States and the European Union." The New York Times even speaks of a "earthquake in transatlantic relations". "This is the end of the time when the United States was leading and Europe was following," notes a former American diplomat to NATO in the columns of the newspaper. "Donald Trump harms American interests," alarms for his side The Atlantic. For the monthly magazine, there is only one beneficiary of this geopolitical evolution. It's Russia. "Donald Trump's tour of Europe was perfect for the Kremlin. Putin could not have invented a better scenario." Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, what would be the place of our Belgian diplomacy in a Union that is more independent of the United States? What would be the possible military, economic or strategic consequences, particularly in the exchange of data on terrorism? Personally, I note that Europe has always advanced when it was "in danger". We saw him when we had the wall in the east. In my view, the fact that there is a challenge can encourage Europe to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u56	Mr. President, Mr. Flahaux, I will come back to your questions. As regards the place of our diplomacy in a Union that is independent of the United States, I would say that our diplomacy relies heavily on the effective and rapid implementation of this comprehensive European strategy, which is perfectly in line with our foreign policy. We are trying to develop strong international cooperation, to defend our democracy, human rights and the rule of law. I believe that we can make real progress in this process. This does not, of course, prevent a strong transatlantic link, with a series of common interests between the European Union and the United States. But we must be able to place our diplomacy in this logic of strengthening a Union that is independent of the United States. On the military consequences, in November 2016, the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council identified avenues for action to better meet current and future security and defence needs, while also stressing the need for complementarity and close cooperation with NATO, thus avoiding unnecessary duplication. On 15 December 2016, the European Council reiterated that Europeans must assume more responsibility for their security, stressing the need to mobilise additional resources to this end. At European level, a series of concrete measures have been taken in this direction, which I am not going to list. As far as the economy is concerned, I do not believe that we can really have a definitive view of the economic aspects in the broad sense at the moment, because we have to see how we are going to advance the European project, and what exactly the American positions will be in this area. I would like to stress one point which has already been the subject of comments on other countries in previous questions: it is clear that on the fight against terrorism, we must contribute to the development of a strong European policy, but also an exchange of information and cooperation with the United States. They play a major role in a number of efforts to combat terrorism, not only at the military level, but also in the collection and exchange of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u57	Mr President, I have nothing to add. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u58	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, a draft resolution has been discussed in the European Parliament and it has just been voted on. It concerns the fight against anti-Semitism, a very commendable objective. However, this project raises serious difficulties, not on the principle of the necessary fight against anti-Semitism, of course, but on the definition of anti-Semitism which it intends to have politically validated. The resolution takes up the "working definition" adopted by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA), which is directly modelled on that adopted by the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC) in 2005. This very particular definition, through various examples given in the resolution itself to illustrate the concept of anti-Semitism, has the consequence that the criticism of Israeli policy is very broadly assimilated to a form of anti-Semitism. The adoption of such a definition at European level poses a serious threat to freedom of expression and political activism in relation to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The willingness of some parliamentary groups to adopt this definition is very clear with the aim of holding back criticism of the Israeli occupation policy of Palestine. Various amendments have been tabled by some progressive groups to make a clear distinction between a direct or indirect appeal to violence, hatred or intolerance towards Jews and a legitimate use of freedom of expression, for example a criticism of the actions of the State of Israel, but to no avail. Vice-Prime Minister, we know that the pressure is strong and exerted by various lobbies to impose the highly oriented definition of anti-Semitism as carried out by IHRA and EUCM. Is this definition supported or opposed by Belgium, both in its multilateral relations within the European Union and in its bilateral relations with Israel? How do you see the turn taken by this resolution? What position does Belgium stand in the European fora and the United Nations in relation to the fight against anti-Semitism? Is a European position common to the 28 Member States in the process of being established? If so, will it still allow for the legitimate political criticism of Israel's illegal occupation of Palestine in the eyes of international law?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u59	Mr President, Mr Hellings, the definition of anti-Semitism developed within the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance is a definition of work designed to facilitate the debates and awareness-raising activities of this organisation of which Belgium is an active member state. It is an important instrument for the fight against anti-Semitism. In this context, Belgium joined the consensus within the organisation to adopt this definition. Last year, the German OSCE Presidency proposed that this definition of work also be adopted within this organisation. Here too, Belgium has shown its willingness to join the consensus to support this definition of anti-Semitism work. In the European Parliament, the resolution to which you refer includes an appeal to adopt, in national legislation, and to enforce the resolution adopted within the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance. This resolution was adopted by the European Parliament on 1 June with very broad support, including - if my information is correct - from the Green Group. It's just to understand! The question of the tension between the adoption of such a definition and the risk to freedom of expression is certainly at the heart of such a debate. The fact that the definition adopted within the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance has met with such broad support, however, shows to me that at the end of this debate, the negative analysis you make of it is not appropriate. In the organization's text, the examples accompanying the definition are clearly presented as illustrative and are preceded by the explicit mention that legitimate criticism of Israel cannot be considered anti-Semitic. Belgium attaches extreme attention to the fight against anti-Semitism. I constantly remind you of this in all the appropriate instances. This definition, I repeat, is an important instrument to support this struggle and contribute to its development around a common vision. At the same time, Belgium attaches equal importance to freedom of expression and it is clear that, in our view, the adoption of this definition cannot under any circumstances be read as a restriction on the legitimate right of everyone to criticize Israel's policy if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer and for your clarification. Words have significant political and symbolic meaning and impact. The way you answered reassures me as to how we see things. Anti-Semitism is totally illegitimate; criticism of the colonial policy of the State of Israel is something else, but it is entirely legitimate. This must be the case today and in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u61	Minister, in 2014, the House voted in favour of a strong resolution to save the Kimberley Process. Three years later, however, nothing seems to have changed. I would therefore like to ask you for an update on this resolution. 2017 is a year of reform for the Kimberley Process. However, the remaining NGOs that remain involved in the process threaten to withdraw if their requests are not fulfilled again. They often feel instrumentalized to give credibility to a process they no longer believe in. If they withdraw, we can imagine the impact it could have. Indeed, the Kimberley process remains the precursor to traceability and certification, and its death would be all the more violent. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this point. Given that there are many cases of infringements by both producing and importing countries, how does Belgium ensure that the Kimberley Process is respected and safeguarded? What initiatives does Belgium intend to take to promote a broader definition of certified diamonds, as foreseen in the 2014 Resolution? What is a definition that "would unequivocally and definitively exclude the production, processing and trade of rough diamonds that may or may not be directly associated with an armed conflict, violence or serious human rights violations"? What action has Belgium taken to support the request for the establishment of a permanent and independent secretariat, which effectively monitors the implementation of Kimberley Process standards? What are the conclusions of the Kimberley Process Reform Working Group? What positions does Belgium hold in the European Union at the negotiating table on this subject? While support for Belgian NGOs is in sharp decline in the DGD's five-year plan, how does Belgium, in line with its 2014 commitments, intend to support civil society organisations in the Kimberley Process? Does the Belgian State intend to mobilize to meet the expectations of civil society with regard to the Kimberley Process? Finally, my last question was not originally intended for you or Mr. From Croo. On the Selor site, my attention was drawn to a job offer for a diamond analyst. This announcement explicitly referred to the 2013 Financial Action Task Force report. So it seemed strange to me that the SPF Economy is publishing this offer now. Therefore, I would like to know, minister, whether this job offer has any bearing on the parliamentary issues that have been tabled in recent days.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u62	Minister, while the 2007 Brussels Declaration required traders who import and export rough diamonds to maintain verifiable trade records, reports show that despite the Kimberley Process, many illicit financial flows are still circulating. Reports from the Egmont Group's Financial Action Task Force – of which Mrs Grovonius has just spoken – highlight the porosity of the diamond trade with crime in general, including in its most atrocious forms. A particular risk for diamond trading centres is the trade-based money laundering, which is the sub- and over-evaluation techniques that contribute to the money laundering process. Dubai, which is nevertheless an important trading partner for the Belgian sector, in particular Antwerp, finds itself at the centre of this controversy. Adding Dubai's "certificates of mixed origin" results in a very obscure or even totally inefficient control system. We know the importance of the diamond sector to the Belgian economy, and it is therefore our responsibility to play a leading role in ensuring that standards are harmonized internationally. Hence, Minister, my five questions. What measures are envisaged, in United Nations circles or elsewhere, to strengthen internal controls, to create a genuine vigilance plan, particularly to meet the challenges of under- and over- and illicit financial flows? What concrete steps are being taken by our country to ensure the implementation of the Brussels Declaration on Internal Control in International Trade and Manufacturing Centres? How does cooperation between producing and importing countries materialize? Do these coordinating bodies have sufficient resources to meet the challenge of truncated evaluations. I am thinking in particular of financial intelligence units? In accordance with the Washington Declaration of the Kimberley Process, how has the Belgian State put in place support measures for producing countries with a view to strengthening their internal controls? Finally, have any contacts been made with Dubai, both at the ministerial and diplomatic levels, in order to put on the agenda compliance with the Kimberley Protocol in our bilateral relations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u63	Mr Minister, my questions have largely been asked by Mr Grovonius. I would like to endorse it, but I would like to highlight two points to which you would like me to reply. Firstly, there have been several reports of infringements due to both importing and producing countries. How does our country monitor compliance and the protection of the process? Secondly, what are the conclusions of the working group working on the reform of the Kimberley process for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 2017 is indeed a decisive year for the Kimberley Process because the important debate on reform has just been launched. Indeed, in 2016, the process experienced difficult times. The civil society coalition had given up participating in the meetings. Thanks to the dialogue supported by Belgium and the European Union, the civil society coalition was reintegrated into the Kimberley Process family during the current year. Belgium has a continuous dialogue with representatives of the three pillars of the Kimberley Process: participating countries, industry and civil society. Belgium is constantly calling for the concerns of civil society to be reflected in the European Union's proposals. Our latest proposals were discussed during the first reform debate at the Kimberley Process inter-sessional meeting in Perth in May this year. In concrete terms, proposals have been put forward for the reform of assessment missions to monitor compliance with the acquis of the process by participating countries. The recommendations of those missions must be implemented more strictly. In addition, the adaptation of the definition of "conflict diamonds" was discussed, as was the establishment of a permanent secretariat for the process and a multi-donor fund to enable NGOs to participate effectively in assessment missions and process meetings. The European proposals to which Belgium has actively contributed will be incorporated into a reform proposal which the Chair of the process wishes to submit to the plenary meeting to be held in December in Australia. Previously, Belgium will take the initiative to discuss these texts informally with the African countries concerned on the margins of the African Diamond Conference, co-organized by the SPF Foreign Affairs on 14 November at the Egmont Palace in Brussels. In the event that the reform debate cannot be closed in 2017, discussions will continue during the European Presidency of the process in 2018. Belgium is called upon to play a crucial role. Indeed, the two annual meetings of the process will be organised in Belgium: the intersessional meeting in June 2018 in Antwerp and the plenary meeting in November 2018 in Brussels. With a view to the European Presidency of the Kimberley Process, I have taken the decision to second a diplomat to the European services to enhance the impact of Belgium's efforts in this area. The 2007 Brussels Declaration contains some recommendations and guidelines on internal controls. The monitoring system established by law in Belgium shall contain the provisions necessary to apply and implement this Directive. The basis for this is the Programme Act of 2 August 2002 and the Implementing Decision of 30 April 2004. The 2002 European Regulation 23/6/68, the implementation of the Kimberley process, also provides for measures on internal controls and self-regulation of industry. The Belgian surveillance and monitoring system established by law contains the following concrete elements: compulsory registration of traders in diamonds, both in rough and cut diamonds; compulsory declaration and centralisation of the import and export formalities in Antwerp Diamond Office; mandatory physical inspection of each consignment imported or exported in Belgium; compulsory annual declaration of stocks and activities; compulsory keeping of verifiable documents and data for all activities for at least five years, data containing the purchase and sale, invoice details of customers and suppliers, Kimberley Process Certificate, stocks and so on. In the context of self-regulation, diamond traders who are members of a diamond exchange should have an annual audit carried out to confirm that these documents and data are present in the firm. The government supervises compliance with these provisions, including through checks and periodic spot checks. In addition to these measures in the Brussels Declaration, diamond dealers in Belgium are subject to legislation in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. In implementation of this legislation, the diamond dealers have additional obligations, including the identification and verification of customers. Within the Kimberley process, Belgium always strives for a level playing field. In this context, other trading centres such as Dubai are often reminded of their obligations. Belgium also participated in the Kimberley Process Review Mission in the United Arab Emirates. Mrs Grovonius, with regard to the job offer that you have identified on the Selor site, I refer you to the Minister of Economy. I don't have any information about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answers. I strongly encourage you to take advantage of these meetings in Brussels and Antwerp to "put the package" on global governance in the diamond sector. Even though the stone is transparent and precious, this area looks cloudy and opaque to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u67	Minister, I would urge you and your diplomats to continue on the slopes of which Belgium has been a pioneer. We have always played a very important role in the Kimberley process. My group supports you in broadening and deepening the Kimberley process.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u68	Mr President, Minister, we all know that the fight against radicalism, terrorism and jihadism requires cooperation between public bodies but also between national and international police and intelligence services, internet companies, access providers, encrypted courier operators. Initiatives have already been taken in recent years. However, the European Commission is currently making progress in developing new regulations requiring better collaboration between encrypted courier operators and safety and security services. This issue is obviously crucial, since we now know that terrorist operations have already been coordinated through such couriers. The Court of Justice of the European Union has, a few months ago, framed certain requirements of States wishing to require data retention for the effectiveness of terrorist research and investigations, but today it seems that States no longer have the possibility to require the systematic preservation of metadata. Moreover, your Justice colleague seems determined to favour legislation at European level, but it is certainly not easy to put in place when one finds, for example, that a Belgian, who communicates with another Belgian by WhatsApp, actually passes through an American platform. Since the submission of this question, the subject has experienced several news: a European summit with your counterparts in Luxembourg, but also a Franco-British summit, some recent communications, the G7, major internet companies that have positioned themselves. It appears that important points remain sensitive, even if, on a case-by-case basis, investigation by investigation, the collaboration between state services and enterprises takes place rather positively. A sensitive point is the question of the initiative of private companies themselves, as defined by the principle of censorship a priori, that is, without waiting for the intelligence and police services to contact the operators. Another issue is the definition of a terrorist message, also that of the presence of counter-speech to be put in place and promoted by internet companies. Moreover, even today, Mr Terrorism of the European Union, Gilles de Kerchove, whom you are very familiar with, explained the challenges of the fight against terrorism, particularly in terms of preventing jihad on the Internet. In his view, prevention should not only go through the police and intelligence services, not only through the internal services of Internet companies, but also through better consideration of information from citizens' users to the internal services of Internet giants.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u69	Minister, what are the recent initiatives taken at both national and European level to ensure full cooperation between courier operators in investigations into acts of radicalism and terrorism? What information can you give us about the work currently under way in the European Commission? Can you tell us a few concrete elements about the cyber-diplomatic toolbox that you adopted at the Luxembourg summit a few days ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u70	Mr President, Mr Pivin, many European initiatives have been taken with regard to the exchange of information and cooperation between national counter-terrorism services. I had already had the opportunity, after the May 2014 attack, to urge Europe as well as NATO to strengthen this collaboration. I reiterate our demand systematically in our bilateral contacts. With regard to initiatives within the European Union, in January 2016, the European Counter Terrorism Centre (ECTC) was set up within Europol and, since July 2015, the Internet Reference Unit in charge of combating radicalisation on the Internet. This unit must ensure better coordination between detection, signage, tracking and analysis of terrorist content on the Internet. In addition, the European Commission has launched a ministerial IT forum with the Internet industry, with the aim of bringing together Member States' governments and large Internet companies and improving cooperation against the misuse of the Internet for terrorist purposes. This allows Member States and Europol to discuss with a few large Internet companies. Belgium welcomes this increased cooperation between public sectors and Internet service providers. As far as national measures are concerned, I refer to the Ministers of Justice, Defence, the Interior and the Prime Minister responsible for these matters. Criminals are increasingly using electronic means to communicate with each other or to prepare for their misdemeanours or even perpetrate them. These communications leave electronic traces that can be collected by investigators and used as evidence before the courts. Digital testing (e-evidence) is increasingly important in criminal investigations into serious crime and, in particular, terrorism. In June 2016, the Council adopted conclusions inviting the Commission to take initiatives in this regard. An expert group has been set up. At the end of its work, a report was adopted, which included a number of practical measures and envisaged a possible legislative initiative that could be presented in early 2018. Belgium is in favour of a swift legislative initiative in this area, and stresses the importance of the debate on electronic evidence, which is crucial to ensuring the effectiveness of criminal investigations in an increasingly digitalised world. With regard to the use of encryption in the detection of serious crimes and the fight against terrorism, discussions are still under way. Member States recognise the importance of encryption for data protection, cybersecurity, privacy and confidentiality of communications. At the same time, it is necessary to have access to digital information in the case of the detection and prosecution of crimes. On the basis of the expert group's proposals, it is possible that legislative initiatives will be launched in 2018, in order to put in place legislation that requires companies to make encrypted data accessible to the competent authorities. I am, of course, prepared to provide you with more information on the report of the expert group itself, which contains a number of elements, including the toolbox to which you referred.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. In my opinion, we will still be discussing this subject very thoroughly in the committee of inquiry which deals with radicalism. Indeed, a chapter is dedicated to this extremely delicate aspect. For my part, I remain convinced, despite everything I read and hear, that the word must remain "collaboration" and not "obligation", since too many obligations may lead to reflexes which are not the ones we are looking for, and which may strengthen what is called the darknet, or in any case, to deprive us of prospects for investigations. As long as we go in the direction of better collaboration with the IT giants, we will do better.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u72	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, geostrategic balances can change radically in a few elections. Thus, since the decision of the British people to leave the European Union and Donald Trump's inauguration at the White House, in a few months we have faced as many challenges as opportunities to seize. In France, the recent election of a fairly liberal and openly Europhile president reinforces the European project that is so dear to me, as well as to you. Europe has been built on successive crises, I recalled earlier, but paradoxically, it has always emerged stronger. Unfortunately, the image of 500 million citizens is often tarnished by Eurosceptic or even radical Europhobic discourse. The Greek crisis and the influx of refugees could have been managed more in solidarity between the different member countries. We are at a time of challenges and opportunities. Belgium is one of the pillars of the European Union, from the ECSC to the end of the war. At each stage, we were actors in its construction with obstinacy and even self-denial. Mr Minister, what are the opportunities, in the short and medium term, that Belgium could seize so that its voice can be heard more closely, in the vicinity of a Franco-German couple that seems to be consolidating, which we must rejoice at? What concrete elements could our country provide to help move beyond new courses in a Europe that is still to be reformed? What are the new challenges facing Belgium within the Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u73	Mr Flahaux, as you mentioned in your question, the Franco-German couple has often played a decisive role in deepening European integration. We therefore welcome the new momentum that the outcome of the recent presidential elections in France seems to have generated. Our country intends to remain in close contact with Paris and Berlin on European issues. Recently, I was able to talk to my new French colleague, Mr Le Drian, which allowed me to pass messages in connection with the Belgian position. Cooperation within Benelux also allows us to amplify the Belgian voice in European fora. The same contacts will take place with my German colleague. In other words, the Franco-German couple is indispensable for European integration, but it is not enough. Other actors must also play a leading role. The debate on the future of the Union is under way. The declaration adopted in Rome in May, on the occasion of the sixtieth anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, recalled the Union's fundamental objectives: a secure and secure Union, a prosperous and sustainable Europe, a social Europe and a stronger Europe on the international stage. The European Commission has published a White Paper on the future of Europe and discussion papers on the social dimension, mastering globalisation, European defence, economic and monetary union and the future of the Union's finances. The process is only in its infancy. The December European Council should, in principle, make it possible to take a first look at the matter. Belgium is actively involved in the discussions and is prepared to support concrete projects, such as deepening economic and monetary union or strengthening the European Union. The challenges within the Union are known, be they socio-economic, geopolitical, security or migration. Our preferred option is, of course, to continue to work as much as possible with all Member States. However, we must also face the reality: on several issues fundamental to the future of the Union, there are deep divergences or different degrees of ambition between the Member States. That is why we must also address the debate on differentiation. There are policies in which the will of some to go further should not be hindered by those who do not wish to move forward. This was the case with Economic and Monetary Union, and it may also be necessary in other areas, including migration. I can indeed confirm to you that the elements of crisis that surround Europe today on the international stage and sometimes within it, such as Brexit or other internal debates, are also opportunities if a number of European officials choose to seize this opportunity and to relaunch the project on concrete subjects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u74	Deputy Prime Minister, I am completely satisfied with your answer. I will add a little comment by saying that it must be extremely exciting to be Foreign Minister at this time!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u75	And Minister for European Affairs!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u76	We turn to question No. 19433 by Mr.Flahaux on "the abduction of an Azerbaijani journalist in Georgia on 29 May 2017".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u77	Mr President, I know that the minister's time is running out. I would like to turn my questions in items 54 to 61 of the agenda (Nos. 19433, 19441, 19444, 19449, 19469, 19470, 19472 and 19594) into written questions. This will save you time and allow you to completely exhaust the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u78	Thank you, Mr. Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u79	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, thank you for your time. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in the Chamber resolution adopted on the freezing of Turkey's accession procedure to the European Union, Parliament asked for the budget allocated to Turkey from IPA II to be deleted. IPA II is an instrument for pre-accession assistance that aims to support the necessary reforms in candidate countries to achieve the EU acquis on democracy, the rule of law and social policy. However, the accession negotiations between the European Union and Turkey are not making progress and reforms in Turkey are also being reduced. The resolution also calls for the funds released to be allocated to Turkish civil society and non-governmental organisations through the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights. Minister, have you already put that question within the European Union? If so, what is the position of the European Commission, the European Council and the Council of Foreign Affairs on this matter? If not, when will you submit it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u80	Mr van Peteghem, since the extremely negative progress report on the accession negotiations with Turkey in November 2016, I have consistently advocated a refocusing of resources for Turkey. This means that payments should be partially suspended and partly reoriented towards strengthening civil society and promoting human rights and democracy. This formal Belgian position was also taken at the December 2016 Foreign Affairs Council on the EU enlargement process. This was repeated at all levels, including the informal Foreign Affairs Council in April and the June European Council. Within the Council, our country receives support from some Member States, but there is no unanimity on this. However, the European Commission has already indicated that the 2017 Annual Plan for Pre-Accession Assistance to Turkey will be significantly restricted to the areas of strengthening civil society, the rule of law and democracy. This annual plan will be submitted to the opinion of the Member States by the appropriate procedure after the summer recess. We are trying to achieve unanimity or consensus within the Council. So far there has been no unanimity or consensus. However, we are also arguing in the European Commission in the same way, and we may have a better chance of achieving a reorientation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you have indeed expressed the position set out in the resolution on several occasions with the various possibilities you had for doing so. We must strive for unanimity, and I can only ask you to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u82	Minister, the negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, the EU-US trade and investment agreement, have not continued since the entry into force of current US President Trump. However, at the CDU Party Congress last week, German Chancellor Merkel stated that negotiations on TTIP should be restarted. She was joined by the American Minister of Trade, Wilbur Ross, among others. Minister, how do you estimate the possibilities of continuing the TTIP negotiations, following the statements of German Chancellor Merkel and the US Trade Minister? Following the recent statements, were any further steps taken by the EU and/or the US to restart the TTIP negotiations? Following the recent statements, has our country taken steps within the EU to resume negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u83	Mr Van Peteghem, I have also taken note of the recent unilateral statements made by the German Chancellor Merkel and the US Trade Secretary Ross. On the European side, Trade Commissioner Malmström met both Trade Secretary Ross and Trade Representative Lightzinger. However, there is no formal or even informal debate for the time being on the possible re-launch of the TTIP negotiations. Moreover, the decision to stop these negotiations was never taken on the EU side either. The EU has only found that after 15 TTIP rounds of negotiations no agreement could be found with the US administration of then President Obama. On the Belgian side, for example, it was felt that the US level of ambition could be higher, including as regards the opening up of maritime services. You know that this is a recurring question from Belgium. In addition, there was discussion of access to public procurement outside the federal level and mutual commitments on social and environmental standards. The Belgian desire to reach an ambitious, balanced and comprehensive trade agreement with the United States remains unchanged. However, before continuing to do so, it should be confirmed that the negotiators on both sides agree on the starting point and the objectives of an agreement to be pursued. So far we have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic702x.u84	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
