ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u1	Mrs Pas, your conversation has been on the agenda for some time, which is why it is now at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u2	Mr President, I cannot be present in all the committees at the same time. It is therefore an advantage that this interplay is at the top of the agenda, so that I can go to the next committee in good time. Mr Minister, today I would like to have a legal explanation from you on the question of language legislation. Article 32 of the language legislation clearly defines what a regional service is: a service with a scope larger than a municipality but less than the entire territory of the country. Last year I asked all ministers which services fall within their competence under Article 35 (1) of the language legislation; all regional services with the scope of Brussels-Capital municipalities, as well as municipalities from Brussels-Capital and from the Dutch-speaking language area, the French-speaking language area, or both linguistic areas at the same time, without covering the whole territory. I received an answer: four services, two of which are covered by the Public Health Office, one of which is covered by the Minister of Pensions, and two services covered by Social Affairs. They're all covered by that arrangement. I've been looking into the language legislation in those services. Article 35 (1) provides that, according to the language provisions, all staff of those local services in Brussels-Capital should have the knowledge of the two languages and should be able to submit a language attestation. The Ministers themselves indicated that the said services fall within the scope of Article 35 (1) of the Language Act. The definition of their scope also shows this. However, the Ministers' reply also showed that almost none of the staff of these services can submit the required bilinguality attestation. When I asked about this, those ministers indicated that they were not going to take measures to ensure that the language law was respected by those services. They were even looking for a way out of not having to do that. They had the bright idea of asking for advice on the status of these services from the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring. The VCT immediately served them, because in its opinions it states that those services would not be regional services according to Article 35, § 1 of the language legislation. They call it central or executive services, in other words, services whose job covers the whole country. The problem seemed to be solved by the ministers, because the staff of these services do not need to be bilingual. However, that is not a solution. The VCT is based on a report by Saint-Remy from the early 1960s. I have read that report once, but I have found nothing at all that could justify that those services could be central or implementing services or could be considered as such services in their field of operation. Those advices of the VCT are therefore no different than typical examples of the meanwhile absurd advice practice contra legem of the VCT. However, these opinions do have considerable consequences. They completely undermine a basic principle of language law, that of the scope. They can also be used as a precedent in other cases. Of course, the consequences can be far-reaching and lead to the undermining of the language law. This also leads to numerous inconsistencies, a substantial expansion of facilities and all kinds of vagueness. If those services, which operate in Brussels and in Flemish and Walloon Brabant, are now suddenly regarded as central services, which they are not, then one may wonder about other regional services which are currently covered by Article 35, § 1 of that language legislation. Are these also suddenly central or executive services? If they are not, what is the difference with the four regional services that the VCT now suddenly considers to be central services? What about equivalent regional services, which are responsible for these matters for the rest of Flanders and Wallonia? Should they also suddenly be regarded as central or executive services? If they are regional services, why are they and not the other four services? These are all matters that are not really clear and have implications for language legislation, which applies in all the services mentioned. For example, if a service is suddenly regarded as a central service or an executive service instead of a regional service, that service should not, as has been the case so far, be communicated only in the language of the language area, but should now suddenly be communicated in both national languages. I do not see any justification for the argument that the four mentioned services, which have always been regarded as regional services over the past few decades and whose staff should be bilingual, would suddenly be transformed into a central or executive service, which would have far-reaching consequences. That is why I have the following questions for you. Do you subscribe to the VCT's advice or theorem versus legem? Is it central or executive in all four cases? On what grounds is this the case in the light of language legislation? If that proves to be the case, should the reasoning not be consistently extended to all other regional services, with the result that the facilities for foreign speakers are substantially extended? Finally, if you do not follow that reasoning contrary to the VCT, will you take action with regard to your fellow ministers on the four services, in order to point out to them that they are indeed regional services and that the language legislation in those files must be complied with?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u3	Mrs. Pas, I will answer you officially first. Firstly, I must draw your attention to the fact that each minister within his own competence is responsible for the correct application of the administrative language law applicable. Secondly, I would like to reiterate that the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control is an independent body that belongs to the legislative power. In that capacity, it shall deliver opinions in accordance with language legislation in administrative matters. It must also do so in accordance with language legislation in administrative matters. I am not aware of any advice given by the VCT to the Minister of Pensions or Social Affairs. The opinion shall be requested by the Minister concerned and shall also be delivered to the Minister concerned. It is they who have been given the advice. Officially, therefore, I cannot comment on an opinion that I have not seen. However, I would like to say that I think your interplay is meaningful enough to investigate that further. I will take the time to do so, but we are going to look at this in order to see what clarifications we can make and whether we may need to take other initiatives to ensure that language legislation is correctly applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The opinions of the VCT are available. So you could definitely get them. I would also like to deliver them to you, but I'm sure you'll get them from your colleagues. The problem is that language legislation is currently not being respected. The cases that are Dutch are done by the Dutch speakers and Walloon Brabant is taken care of by the French-speaking staff. So if you raise this issue with your fellow Members, I think it would be the best solution to split up such services. In Flemish and Walloon Brabant the problem has been solved in this way, because then we no longer have a bilingual obligation. This applies only to Brussels. Perhaps that is a suggestion that you can make to your fellow Members. I have referred in my speech to all the written questions I have asked them. Of course, the VCT's opinions are not intended to go against language legislation. You must find a solution to this problem. I will certainly come back to this. I will already give your support to your fellow Members with a motion of recommendation to sit with your fellow Members and take measures to ensure that the language law is strictly respected in administrative matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u5	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, - having regard to Articles 32 and 35 (1) of the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters (SWT), - whereas the regional services of Medex, the Federal Health Inspectorate, the Federal Pension Service and Famifed competent for Brussels and parts of Walloon and Flemish Brabant must without any doubt be regarded as regional services within the meaning of Article 32 of the SWT and therefore fall within the language regime laid down in Article 35 (1) of the SWT; - whereas most staff of these services do not have the necessary bilingualism certification required in accordance with Article 35 (1) in order to be able to perform their duties in those services; - whereas, in order to legitimise this violation of the language law, the Ministers responsible, following an absurd opinion by the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control, have stated that these services are central, i.e. services whose scope covers the whole country; - considering that it calls into question a basic principle of the SWT; - whereas this may also have a far-reaching impact on the equivalent regional services of these administrations serving the rest of the country, opening the door to an extension of facilities for foreign speakers in the monolingual regions, asks the Minister - to inform his fellow Members of the Environment, Pensions and Social Affairs that the four mentioned services are indeed regional services within the meaning of Article 32 of the SWT, which are subject to Article 35 (1) of the SWT as regards their language arrangements; - take measures to ensure strict compliance with the language law in administrative matters in this matter." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, - having regard to Articles 32 and 35(1) of the Coordinated Acts of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters; - Whereas the regional services of the Medex, the Federal Health Inspectorate, the Federal Pension Service and the Famifed competent for the Brussels-Capital Region, certain parts of the Walloon Brabant and the Flemish Brabant must undoubtedly be regarded as regional services within the meaning of Article 32 of the abovementioned coordinated laws and are therefore subject to the language arrangements provided for in Article 35(1) of the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters; - Whereas the majority of the agents of these services do not have the bilingualism certificate required in accordance with Article 35(1) to perform their duties in the above-mentioned services; - Whereas, in order to legitimise this infringement of language laws, following an absurd contra legem opinion of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control, the competent ministers have stated that they are central services, i.e. services whose activities extend throughout the territory; - Whereas a fundamental principle of laws relating to the use of languages in administrative matters is thus compromised; - Whereas this interpretation may have enormous consequences for the equivalent regional services of these administrations whose activities extend to the rest of the territory and could pave the way for an extension of facilities for allophones in unilingual regions, asks the Minister - to point out to his colleagues in the Environment, Pensions and Social Affairs that the four above-mentioned services are indeed regional services within the meaning of Article 32 of the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters and are therefore governed by the provisions of Article 35(1) of the same Law in language matters; - to take measures to ensure that laws relating to the use of languages in administrative matters are also scrupulously observed in this respect." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Veerle Heeren. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Veerle Heeren. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u6	You will not be surprised, Minister, that the workload of the police is very high on all fronts. That is certainly the case at the local level. This has to do, among other things, with the continuing threat of terrorism and with the attacks we have seen. This jeopardises the increased capacity normally devoted to basic tasks such as local interventions. I'm not just speaking here on my own behalf. We have several mayors here on this committee. Recently, an article was published in some magazine by several police officers who brought this up. At the same time, we are also entrusted with federal assignments. We live in a country of solidarity, so all the local police areas also carry out these tasks. We have already discussed the problems of Brussels and the need for additional resources. You have also mentioned that you are going to recruit additional forces, in the budgetary negotiations and in the discussion of the policy paper. However, at the moment when these forces are actually coming, they are all going to Brussels. You have greatly reduced the whole posting story to the local government, with all the consequences. Many local authorities and local police areas call on those positions that are seconded to the local level. It's been screwed back over the past few weeks. When we are talking about integrated police care, we are talking about the fact that we need to focus on the outside, work problem-solving, show involvement and, above all, have competent policemen. This has the effect of creating a lot of expectations everywhere, including from the population. As a result, our police officers are getting more and more security and protection orders. Even district teams are used for such assignments. A final pain is the financial one. In my opinion, local authorities are more responsible than ever at the financial level. At least that's my experience. We also work with different municipalities in our region. That is not really under pressure, because we know that this is our responsibility. The fact that a large part of the local budget goes to the police by means of support has never been questioned in my knowledge in the region where I am active. If, of course, the pressure is so great that it is very difficult to call on the federal police, on the one hand, and if one experiences that posting becomes impossible, on the other hand, it is also reduced, then one has to ask oneself what to do at the local level and by what means. That is worth a wider debate and it goes beyond my question of explanation, but in the light of the article I read, I thought I had to bring it up one way or another. A lot is expected of policemen, just like soldiers. The whole psychological aspect of the job is not insignificant. A lot of cops can't handle the pressure today. That is also one of the reasons why we are faced with a great deal of absenteeism. One gets an average of three to four rest days per month. That really is not much, if one knows that a month counts 31 days. The pressure is increasing and the question is how the hell to deal with it. Is that what is being done at the federal level, from the FPS, to support the local police areas in that too? We've been living under terror level 3 for almost a year. I sometimes wonder whether we will ever get rid of it or whether it is something we will have to live with permanently. If it is something that will last a very long period, several years, then the question is how the police will be organised. Are you thinking of a reorganisation yourself? How are we supposed to deal with that? As I said, I start from the idea of solidarity: we must all, throughout the country, show solidarity with Brussels. That's true. You have indicated that you will employ additional men, but in the end there is also a limit to what can be physically paid to men and women, hence my question. In what way will you be able to fill in the shortage of personnel in the Brussels area in the short term in 2017 so that there can be room for the rest of our country again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Heeren, I had originally received more questions from you, but you have now given a whole explanation to ask a rather simple question. How will we cope with that? In the only way it can be done, namely with additional recruitments and with federal and local efforts. For the local efforts I cannot show up in Brussels, for the federal efforts I can. All the men we have promised in the framework of the Channel Plan are currently being filled in by scraping together the word "sorry," either from federal services or in the context of HyCap schemes from local services. That is not a sustainable solution. The sustainable solution will come from 1 May. A total of 400 people are currently being trained, who will graduate at the end of April. Of these 300 have been allocated to the Channel Plan in Brussels and the Channel Zone. Then the phase of scraping 300 people together to have them on the premises because we already need them there, falls away. In addition, the local police in Brussels must fill its frameworks. That's what needs to be done. Finally, I have said this on several occasions in this committee, and we are working together with local and federal police on a new HyCap regime. I know that the current HyCap regime in the stress situation we experienced in 2016 has shown its limits. We're working out a new HyCap scheme. In 2016, I recruited 1,600 people, this year we recruit 1,400 people and next year another 1,400 people to complement and bring the devolved federal reserve and the central federal reserve to the level that is foreseen. Those reserves were completely removed during the previous government. I have also repeated here a number of times that the political decision can be taken today, and we have taken it a year ago in order to add to it, but that is what time is about. I have the capacity of the police schools. That's a given, and there's the time it takes to recruit, select and train. I do not wish to shorten the time factor in any of these three phases and therefore to reduce quality. A training course lasts a year, and I think this is even rather short. If we look at the training of police officers in the future, this training will certainly be extended because a year is actually too short. When I look at the selection and selection interviews to see who is fit to be admitted to training, this takes effort and time. There is not much to admit to. Fortunately, we are now in a context where people will leave the police school every month in order to catch holes in the local and federal levels. From 1 May 300 people will be deployed for at least three years for the Channel Plan. In this way, the reinforcement in the Brussels areas of federal and local services could be abolished.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u8	Could you give us some more information on HyCap's reworked scheme? There is also the psychological aspect of the job. I don't have an answer to that myself, but I assume the federal police are working on it. We are faced with a great deal of failure and I am not talking about the various leave schemes to which everyone is entitled. This is making it very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u9	You asked about the situation in Brussels. I have no problem with you asking an additional question now. As far as the HyCap scheme is concerned, allow me to postpone this for a while. Local and federal police are currently finalizing their proposal. This will be discussed in the coordination committee during this month. If we validate this, I can communicate it. There is no point in communicating working hypotheses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u10	I have the impression that at the local level they do not have a view on this. I don't know about the flow of communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u11	If it wasn't important, I wouldn't worry about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u12	We think this is more important than ever. And then the psychological aspect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u13	I can tell you the following. The aspects of psychological management of situations encountered by police officers and inspectors are given particular attention in the training. I believe that this level of attention should certainly be maintained and possibly even increased. Moreover, the particularly difficult context facing police officers today must be taken into account. I would also like to stress that, on the one hand, there is training and, on the other hand, there is control and supervision at the level of the police services themselves. One can train people, but that education is fading. The control, the human resources in the police zone itself is very important. As far as your question about training and the attention given to these issues is concerned, there is first and foremost basic training. The basic training shall pay particular attention to this problem as regards the training of the members of the operational framework. In the existing training as inspector applicable in police schools since October 2015 all people who are now in police schools who are trained in different cross-sectional clusters of Stress Management have been addressed, mainly in the cluster 12, Social Orientation, in which one of the competences to be acquired is that the prospective inspector becomes aware of the structural and social causes and consequences of stress. In cluster 15, Violence and Stress Management, the following competences are pursued: dealing with stress and building resilience, recognizing stress signals and others, applying stress management techniques and increasing emotional stability. In the basic training candidate police officer, which is the lowest degree of police, 12 hours are also devoted to well-being at work and stress management. There are also specific training courses of the psychosocial type, in particular those on stress management. These have a great success and the demand for them is considerable, which is of course easy to understand given the context you have also outlined. The police schools are doing their utmost to meet this. These training courses are constantly evaluated and updated in order to respond even better to needs. I would like to give some examples of such training: the numerous continuing training courses of the psychosocial type offered at the level of police schools, I am thinking primarily of training on stress management and training on the use of violence against police officers who include a section on psycho-medical-social aspects and a section on well-being and safety at work. Furthermore, I am thinking of the various courses offered on conflict management and the certified training of suicide prevention, stress management and active listening, provided for the members of the administrative and logistical framework of the police services. This training has already been followed by a large number of them. It also involves HRM, stress and burn-out, HRM and management of stress situations for the HR-responsible and the employees. Finally, some questions of well-being at work and stress management are also addressed in other existing training courses that are not directly related to the problem. I am thinking here of the preparatory training for specialist inspectors and Commissioners, and of the training of coaching or still listening actively to the training.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament 16285 by Mrs Katja Gabriels has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u15	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, I return to our old common love: the NRP.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u16	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u17	These are, in any case, common interests. After the vote on your bill in the House on 22 December, you took advantage of the informal meeting of European Interior Ministers held on 26 January in Malta to discuss the PNR system for high-speed trains to be implemented with countries, as your spokesman said, "with which we have a direct connection". In an article published on 8 January in the British newspaper The Times, the oppositions of the tourism sector are recalled, especially since recent cases of closure or restriction of borders in Europe (identity control) have led to important complications for travellers. In this article, your spokesman even states the following: "Ideally, we would like to be able to say that, from a safety point of view, these train tickets can no longer be sold less than 12 hours before departure." On 16 January, the European Passengers & Federation (EPF) wrote a letter to the members of the European Parliament's Transport Committee expressing its total opposition to the implementation of a PNR on trains. Its main objection is the obstacle that this type of measure represents for the modal shift between the polluting means of transport and the train. For example, the Association of Train Users noted that, when Sweden and Denmark reintroduced, between 2015 and 2016, the systematic verification of identity documents for train passengers on the Oresund border bridge, the use of this means of transport had decreased by 12% over a single year. The EPF also insists on the safe absurdity of this type of measure: lines that will inevitably be created at stations will become easy targets for potential terrorists. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, will your royal orders in preparation for the implementation of a PNR for cross-border high-speed trains provide for the impossibility of rail operators selling last-minute tickets and/or less than 12 hours prior to departure? Do you confirm that only those persons whose flight attendants have checked the match between the ticket and the identity document will be able to use the cross-border high-speed trains in the future? How do you plan to manage the risk of terrorist danger being delayed between these high-speed lines and cross-border regional rail lines, not to mention the individual motor vehicles that terrorists have already borrowed? What technical and financial measures are you planning to implement in order to prevent the danger posed by the lines that will be created at our country's international stations following the implementation of this system? I am thinking here of the lines which we have seen in the past in Brussels Airport, following measures which had been taken and which, in the meantime, have been removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u18	And have nothing to do with the PNR but good! Repetitio is mater studiorum. I'm going to put all my answers on a USB stick and when you want to, you'll be able to see them right away. I will listen to them again because everything you have asked for, I have already answered them several times and - that's my style - I normally do not change my mind if there are no new elements. On Thursday 26 January 2017, Belgium, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom reached an agreement on the launch of a task force which will draw up, through a pilot project, a joint proposal on the application of the NRP to high-speed trains. This important signal shows that Belgium is not alone in its approach to high-speed trains, but that its neighbouring countries support it and support it. In addition, this agreement responds to the industry's demand that the different countries apply the same approach in the interests of uniformity. Now, let me answer all your questions. The claim that booking is no longer possible within 24 hours of departure is false. The Belgian framework law on PNR and therefore also the royal decrees resulting therefrom do not prohibit last minute reservations or non-nominal tickets. Of course, we encourage carriers to issue nominative tickets as much as possible, but there is no obligation. Secondly, Belgian PNR legislation provides for compliance checks between the travel ticket and an identity document. The way in which this compliance check will be carried out will be defined specifically by sector in our royal decrees - by sector and after consultation with the sector. The aim is to reconcile the security interests of society with commercial interests. Thirdly, in order to avoid the creation of a displacement effect for travel within the European Union by introducing the system only for the air sector, Belgium has decided to involve high-speed trains in the scope of the PNR law from the outset. I would like to point out that the NRP is only one of the 18 measures that this government has taken in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. Other measures such as the ANPR camera network being developed or ad hoc border controls can in turn help to solve the problem of car transport. All these measures must help to strengthen security in our society. Finally, the task force's objective is precisely to fight, in collaboration with rail carriers, against the problem of queues. I cannot yet comment on the conclusions of this task force. You referred to the lines of the first day after the reopening of Zaventem airport. At that time, we thoroughly checked every person, every passenger upon arrival. Not only the passengers, but also the visitors: all the people who arrived in Zaventem. A thorough check also means opening the bags. It is clear that this is not the point at all. But I can go back to all these details once this consultation has taken place and we have a royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u19	Minister, thank you. First of all, you mentioned Belgium, France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, but not Germany. I have heard that Germany is not part of the project, but we have rail relations with Germany too, so it is important. I'm not going to tell you again that the reason you're implementing a PNR for high-speed trains is the missed attack in Thalys. Let's remember it! It is, in any case, as explained in the development of your bill. Know that this terrorist, who fortunately was arrested by two American soldiers, had bought a last-minute ticket. If your royal decree makes it possible to buy tickets at the last minute, it will not prevent a terrorist from doing so. So what is the meaning of a PNR for trains? You already had the opposition of the European Commission's Transport DG. You have received a letter from three Commissioners in charge of safety at European level, and today the members of the European Passengers Federation (EFF), which includes Belgian associations such as TreinTramBus, Shuttles.be or Vlaamse Reizigersbond, are extremely clear and are opposed to the principle of this PNR, which runs counter to the modal transfer of the car to the train. It is clear that the implementation of the NRP in high-speed trains will postpone the danger to cross-border regional lines, which you have not mentioned. The exact route from Anis Amri to Germany to Belgium, via France and the Netherlands to Italy, should be analysed in detail, and I hope that we can do this together and calmly. But it is likely that Anis Amri did not take a pre-booked high-speed train, and probably took cross-border trains that were not high-speed. Therefore, the implementation of the NRP for high-speed trains does not meet the identified hazards at this time. Systematic control of train tickets and identity cards or passports will obviously lead to queues in stations, which are not organized to remedy them. Finally, Minister, in considering this issue, I have wondered whether, from the point of view of proportionality and efficiency, it would not be more useful to control in an extremely effective and thorough manner than the journey of those who book their journey at the last minute - since most terrorists have taken trains in this way. In this way, you would focus on a very small part of the population. We know that this is where the problem lies. In any case, I am very concerned about the implementation of this measure. This is the case with other people in Europe, like the Germans, I assume, since they are not part of this pilot project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u20	Questions Nos 16349, 16350 and 16351 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u21	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the press recently revealed that the staff of the Anti-Criminality Brigade of the Midi police zone, operating in the Brussels communes of Anderlecht, Forest and Saint-Gilles, were carrying out their daily operations with obsolete equipment. It would appear that the bulletproof vests used by the police have exceeded their expiry date for almost a year. Police officers are also in charge of the transfer of detainees, including those referred to as Level 2 detainees, who are considered dangerous. In order to do so, of course, they have a bulletproof vest, but due to the number of transfers of prisoners registered in recent months and the shortage of equipment, some vests had to be borrowed from other police services. Minister, this is a worrying situation for the law enforcement agencies, which ensure meritorious actions on a daily basis under very difficult conditions. Can you confirm the situation affecting the personnel of the Anti-Criminality Brigade of the Midi police zone? In concrete terms, what is the state of play with regard to the equipment in bulletproof vests? What evidence is there to explain that such a situation, both in terms of outdated equipment and in terms of lack of equipment, can occur within the police forces? What measures have already been adopted to address this problem? Finally, can you tell us whether similar situations are known in other police areas in Brussels or elsewhere in the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u22	Mr Calomne, I am always at the service of parliamentarians. I will provide you with information on an area for which I have no responsibility. According to information obtained from the local police zone Midi, the police in this area all have classic bulletproof vests, class 3. Exceeding the expiry date applies only to certain Class 4 vests specifically designed to withstand weapons of war. The Anti-Criminality Brigade (BAC) in the Midi zone, consisting of 24 units, had 20 class 4 group vests expired in 2016. Prior to the terrorist threat, the use of Class 4 vests was limited to the transfer of detainees and, therefore, was sufficient. It should be noted, as indicated in the Safeguard Clothing report, that the validity of Class 4 vests is considered by manufacturers to be unlimited. In 2015, in the context of the terrorist threat, 75 placard holders, including 12 for LAC, were ordered to transform a Class 3 vest into Class 4. With regard to your second question, in 2016, 80 new tray holders for Class 4 use were ordered by the Midi zone, 15 of which are reserved for LAC. They were delivered in mid-January this year. As far as your third question is concerned, it is not physically possible, given the time limit, to consult the other 188 police areas in the country on this subject. If you're really interested, send me a written question and we'll do the search for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u23	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. Indeed, this is not your responsibility and I did not question it in any way. But when I read these elements in the press, it came back to me that this raised some concerns. That is why I wanted to know if you had come back that this had happened in other communes and other police areas of the country. I would like to thank you for the answers you have given me to this particular situation in this area in the Brussels region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament 16411 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu will be converted into a written question. Mrs Lambrecht is not yet here, but we will try again to contact her. She certainly announced she was coming. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 16447 by Mr Kir President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Debates of the European Parliament 16451 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u25	Mr. Chairman, Minister, this issue is more directly related to the facts of everyday life than the previous ones. On 23 January, the Belgian General Union of Cleaning (UGBN) issued a statement astonishing the terms of a cleaning contract recently concluded by the SPF Finances. Indeed, according to the UGBN, these conditions are "well below normal market prices" and are "impossible to achieve with labour at current wages and conditions". In other words, the Union accuses the FPS Finances of participating in a social dumping dynamic in the context of the conclusion of a public cleaning market. It states that the contract was awarded at an average hourly price of EUR 16.91 whereas the hourly wage of an ordinary cleaner reached at least EUR 21 including social contributions but excluding equipment and supervision costs. By including these last two variables, the wage then approaches 25 euros per hour. UGBN also indicated that "In the Internal FPS, a similar situation may arise" as another public procurement is under negotiation. This is to ensure that this will not be the case when the federal government announces its intention to combat social dumping and to include ethical and social clauses in public procurement. Minister, do you confirm that a cleaning contract has recently been or will be awarded by the Interior FPS? What benefits are covered? How long and how much is it worth? If it has already been awarded, can you tell me what hourly price is provided for in this contract for cleaning services? Can you tell me what social clauses were or will be included in the special specifications? Do you have firm guarantees that the successful tenderer will not resort to social dumping and pay a fair wage (salary + social security contributions) to his workers? What checks will be carried out to ensure this? The public authorities must set an example in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u26	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I fully agree with you. I can tell you that the contract was not awarded. Indeed, following a procedure in the Council of State, it was decided to waive the award of this contract. The contracting authority is currently examining the organisation of a new cleaning contract taking into account this judgment. The methods of control to avoid the use of social dumping will be specified in the special specification which is being drawn up. I can also explain to you the reason for this great difference in hourly prices between 16,91 euros and 25 euros. This is due to the fact that the initially designated maintenance firm was part of the social economy. It employs staff who are disabled or excluded from the traditional employment system. But, as I indicated in my answer, the contract was ultimately not awarded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u27	Minister, thank you for that clarification. As I said, public authorities must be able to set an example and include clauses in public procurement to ensure that there is no social dumping. I do not, of course, equate the use of social economy operators with social dumping. These are two different things. Public contracts can be reserved specifically for this type of operator, which allows people with disabilities, in particular, to gain access to employment. However, it is true that FPS, the Internal FPS, the Finance FPS and all the others must, in the context of public procurement, provide for clauses that avoid situations that are not desirable from a social and economic point of view. I hope that you will pay attention to this on the basis of this decision of the Council of State which cancelled the contract which had been concluded by the Internal SPF. We will also be paying attention to this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u28	Deputy Prime Minister, emergency services officers, including fire brigades and emergency medical response teams, have recently sounded alarms at the resurgence of aggression in society. In this regard, questioned in a daily newspaper, the president of the Royal Federation of Belgian Firefighters stated: "If we do not have precise figures to give, it is very clear that verbal but also physical violence is increasingly important to firefighters and/or ambulance workers during our interventions. This is one of the great difficulties we face in the various relief areas. The aggression of people towards us is no longer uncommon. It is mainly verbal, even if physical assaults are also to be deplored (...) The injured rescue workers will have no benefit for the victims, especially since these situations delay the relief to be provided, which could have dramatic consequences." Deputy Prime Minister, if the estimates are accurate, there would be an attack every month on a firefighter in the Brussels Region. That is the reason for my questions because these facts are worrying and they obviously call for a strong reaction from the public authorities, to protect those who have to protect us on a daily basis. Do you have an objective record of these attacks on relief workers? In concrete terms, what is the state of the situation? Is there indeed a resurgence of these acts of incivility and, more serious, of aggression against these various agents? What measures are currently being deployed by your services or under consideration to further enhance the safety of these relief workers? What mechanisms are in place to better combat these verbal but also physical violence, which, I repeat, are unacceptable and unjustified?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u29	Mr Calomne, my services have already been aware of cases of aggression or violence against firefighters in the course of their mission. Currently, the response report template to be used by emergency areas includes check-boxes to collect data on firefighter assaults. Emergency zones have already started to send their response reports via the computer application by checking these boxes. The reports submitted are currently being consolidated by my services. In the meantime, I have been able to make use of the data recorded by the police services in the initial minutes and included in the general national database. It is noted that the number of incidents recorded against public service occupations, except the police, is more or less constant for the period from 2013 to 2015. More specifically, 175 crimes were recorded against medical personnel, including paramedics. I have more precise figures, but I suggest that you introduce a written question so that we can give you all the details. With regard to other offences, such as contempt, threat or other forms of violence, the information contained in the General National Data Bank (BNG) does not provide sufficient reliable or complete data. In other words, it is not possible to provide reliable data on victims, since information that specifies the category of victim, in this case a rescue service officer, is not required to register. Certain measures aimed at ensuring the safety of firefighters for the purposes of the intervention itself may constitute a protective measure in the event of violence against them. Thus, firefighters are equipped with ASTRID radios with an emergency button which, with a simple pressure, puts them in direct contact with a 112 centre. Some areas have also installed black box track & trace in their vehicles in order to be able to determine at any time where the vehicle is located. For the rest, the priority demand of the field is to ensure the safety of firefighters given the risks associated with the intervention. These risks are not caused by violent persons but by the circumstances of the incident. This is why it is a policy to purchase personal protective equipment that is promoted, in particular through the federal allocation that the areas receive. I would also like to inform you that attacking a firefighter in the performance of his duties is an aggravating circumstance, provided for in article 410 bis of the Criminal Code introduced in the Code by the Act of 20 December 2006 amending the Criminal Code with a view to punishing more severely violence against certain categories of persons, including firefighters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u30	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. I take note of your various points of answer, even if I will introduce a written question for the remainder, as you have suggested to me. Your answer reinforces me in my reflection on these professions carried out by people who, in addition to having to protect us by taking risks in the context of interventions, are still threatened by external elements of verbal or physical violence. It's challenging, and we'll keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic588x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 16504 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu Mr Kir's 16510 was postponed. Since they are not present, Questions Nos 16420 by Mrs Lambrecht and 16444 by Mr Demon are postponed.
