ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u1	Mr. President, Minister, after many debates within the government, the flexi-jobs principle came into effect in 2015. The measure is intended to help companies in the horeca sector meet their labour needs. However, many interpretative questions arise. I think, for example, of the very strict status of an economically unemployed worker who has entered into a full-time employment contract. When a company is no longer able to pay staff who, in the absence of an activity, do not need them on an ad hoc basis, the employee must wait until the order book is completed and the activity resumes to return to his or her position. The sectors that can use it are limited in number. Therefore, the Horeca Federation wonders whether employees who are unemployed are eligible for flexi-jobs. Moreover, the same question could arise in the event of technical unemployment. Indeed, the status of the worker concerned is hybrid. If it is actually the responsibility of the unemployment insurance funds, it is also not officially seeking employment. It would therefore not be unreasonable to consider that, during this period of inactivity, he could occupy his time in the Horeca in order to improve his income. Minister, can this worker in economic unemployment be considered for flexi-jobs, even if he is in possession of a full-time contract or, at least, four-fifths of the time? If so, are any adjustments planned or possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, as long as he meets the general conditions for being employed in the flexi-job scheme, a worker who is temporarily unemployed with another employer may exercise flexi-job during his days of temporary unemployment. This ancillary activity will of course have an impact on the amount of unemployment benefits for the month concerned. If the worker performs flexi-job one or more days corresponding to days of temporary unemployment, these days shall not be taken into account when calculating the amount of unemployment benefit for the month. If he performs flexi-job on a normal day of inactivity or on a Sunday, the amount of allowances for the month is further reduced by an allowance for each day of benefit in a flexi-job situated between the first day of actual unemployment in the month concerned and the end of the month. The temporary unemployed person must indicate on his control card the days on which he performs a flexi-job. These rules are the general rules for temporary unemployed persons who are engaged in an ancillary activity. There is no reason to derogate from this for flexi-jobs. It will be up to the worker himself to decide whether the flexi-job's income compensates for the loss of unemployment benefits. I think it's normal. Combining the two is not an option, but we can sort it out as I just explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u3	Thank you, Minister. What was of interest was the question of principle: in these circumstances, can you claim a flexi-job? You answered yes, but it is normal, if the worker receives income, to reduce his unemployment benefits pro rata.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u4	Mr President, Minister, ING Belgium recently decided to remove 3 000 of its 9 000 jobs over the next five years. In order to avoid as many redundancies as possible, the bank provides 1 500 of its employees over 55 years of age with the possibility of retaining 60% to 80% of their wages without having to work until their retirement age. In the past, you have been very negative about this. You saw it as a wrong signal and said that this arrangement runs counter to the government's objective of making everyone work longer. You have asked your administration to examine whether or not there is discrimination on the basis of age in this case. That legal investigation is complete and it shows that the departure scheme, while maintaining the bulk of the wage, would not be discriminatory. You informed Mr Eric Van Den Eynden, the CEO of ING Belgium. The results of this study can obviously have important consequences for other companies. The energy company ENGIE Electrabel stated that it will leave 116 employees over 53 years of age at home while retaining a large part of their wages. Mr President, first of all, why do you believe that there is no discrimination, including age-based discrimination? Secondly, can we get a copy of the legal investigation carried out in this case, as well as of the letter you sent to Mr Eric Van Den Eynden? Thirdly, are you not afraid that more companies will follow this example? Fourthly, is such an attitude by these companies not contrary to the government agreement and the positive attitude that human capital is the most important part of an enterprise? Fifthly, can it not be ruled out that companies will use such schemes in the future to undermine the so-called Renault Act? Sixthly, have you already instructed your administration to investigate whether a possible change of law could be helpful in order to avoid such practices in the future? In addition, you will undoubtedly have heard that ING has decided to reject its Record Offices. What will happen to those 488 offices? Do you have any idea how many staff are employed there? About 1,000? What are the prospects for these workers? Have you announced any layoffs yet? Has there been any such consultation between the social partners? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u5	We are all interested in the answer, but we are going to listen to Mrs Winckel first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the company ING is experiencing difficult times and the managers have planned a restructuring plan. By 2021, 3,500 departures are planned, of which less than 1,000 are redundancies. A company policy favours departures aged 55 and over, with a proposal for advantageous conditions. On the same day that the collective agreements were signed between the unions and management, you said you wanted to have the social agreements analysed in order to point to possible age-related discrimination. Minister, did you actually have ING's social agreements analysed? What came out of it? Have age discrimination been raised? Could you take stock, within the limits of your powers, of ING's restructuring file? The CEO of ING has recently explained that workers aged 55 and over, affected by the advantageous departure measures, would have a count and a simulation of what would happen. These employees are expected to express their views on these conditions during the month of June. Do you know more? How is this social plan progressing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ING's social plan provides for measures that allow workers who have reached a certain age to be exempted from the provision of employment benefits, while maintaining a certain amount of pay, until they retire. You are right, Mr Van der Donkt, when that news came out, I expressed my disapproval. I didn't think that was a good evolution and not a good measure, but a minister is bound by laws and rulings of courts. So I immediately asked my administration to examine whether that measure could be regarded as discrimination. I'll get you the questions for information. What I have received, I will deliver to you. The advice has been given. On the basis of Article 12 (1) of the Law of 10 May 2007 on combating certain forms of discrimination, a direct distinction based on age in employment relations does not constitute discrimination where that is justified by a legitimate objective, such as employment policy, the labour market or any other similar legitimate objective, and the means for achieving that objective are appropriate and necessary. You can find a justification for this in that direction. Based on this principle, the European Court of Justice has ruled that a national legislation which provides for workers who have reached a certain age to be retired with the aim of combating unemployment does not constitute discrimination. This is stated in a judgment of 16 October 2007. In the same vein, the High Court has also recognized that national legislation provides for an automatic termination of the employment contract when a certain age is reached. That is a judgment of 12 October 2010. Finally, in the Age Concern England judgment, the Court held that compulsory retirement at the age of 65 does not constitute discrimination. There is therefore a great deal of justice in this direction. As regards the Belgian caselaw, the Arbeidshof of Ghent held that a difference in treatment based on age could be objectively and reasonably justified by the fact that, as a result of collective redundancies, only employees aged 55 and over were dismissed. The aim of the difference in treatment is to reduce the social impact and reduce as much as possible the number of naked redundancies by making maximum use of the bridge pension. That is a judgment of 22 October 2008. On the basis of these legal bases and on the basis of those judgments, the measure of the social plan, which includes an age limit from which the worker is exempted from the provision of employment benefits while maintaining wages, does not appear to be discriminatory. I would like to say something about this, because I think it is important to stress that such a measure can be objectively and reasonably justified if it allows it to avoid naked redundancies and reduce unemployment. This age limit has been set according to the age at which one can retire, while the legal definition of a maximum retirement age does not constitute discrimination. I would like to stress once again that I personally am not in favour of this system that places older workers on inactivity. The agreement with ING does stipulate that this scheme will be introduced on a voluntary basis, which means that the number of employees employed will be much smaller than the number of employees required to leave the company. In addition, ING's collective agreement provides that the employees concerned may, while retaining their pay, be employed elsewhere where they can make their expertise available. The procedure provided for in the Renault Act was followed. It is precisely in the context of this consultation that this collective agreement has been established. My administration is investigating a legislative amendment which makes it more difficult for older workers to remain inactive. This can be done, for example, by extending the DECOVA contributions due under the SWT scheme to this form of non-activity of older workers. You're referring to ENGIE Electrabel. We are also aware of this. I do not think that many companies can afford to say: stay home, we will pay you. Companies such as ING and ENGIE Electrabel, who do, send a terrible bad signal to the rest of the employees and to the other companies that are unable to do so financially and whose employees are not eligible for it. We will therefore put this issue on the table in the next few days and weeks, whether or not in super-Ministers' Councils and budget statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I look forward to the further progress of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u9	Minister, if I understand correctly, this is not considered discrimination. As a result, it seems to me that nothing will change in the case of ING. When you think that the measure is not good and you want to adapt the regulations, it is therefore a matter of future closures. Do we agree that in the case of ING nothing will change? So this is good news for the workers. I believe that all measures aimed at reducing redundancies to the maximum are good measures, especially if the company is in favour of adopting such a plan. We know that in Belgium the figures are very low. They are the lowest in Europe for workers over 55 years of age. We also know that this tranche has the most difficulty in being included in the labour market. You want to lengthen career time. If you amend the law when social plans are adopted by companies to force workers to remain in the labour market, when in this case no burden will be placed on the state accounts since the company bears the full costs, I do not understand and cannot follow you until measures are taken to improve the labour market situation of older workers. Rather, I believe that it is a good measure to consider that this is not discriminatory and that it will really help the workers. Because in this case, I do not see what is negative. Firstly, the burden is on the company and secondly, the workers are voluntary. I can only encourage this type of procedure when social plans take place in companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u10	I understand your position, Mrs. Winckel. However, these words are a little odd, because, as I have pointed out, it is not possible to organize this for each company, as is done for ING or ENGIE. It is very rich companies that have the opportunity to pay. But let us not forget the solidarity between the workers. There are workers in small and medium-sized enterprises too, in sectors that are not in a position to do this. I hope that, for you too, this aspect of solidarity between workers exists; it is not at all possible for all workers to have a regime such as that which exists within ING.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u11	Minister, I fully agree. I am, of course, in favour of solidarity between workers. That said, from the moment a company can pay for social plans, as is the case here, why not? I'm sorry, but when we're 55, it's really complicated to get back on the job. Therefore, I do not really see where the problem lies. Moreover, the European Court of Justice and the Belgian courts are in this direction. I therefore encourage you not to change the rules in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u12	Mr Minister, as you know, on Monday 24 April, the combined commissions of the Economy and Social Affairs received representatives of the workers of the Caterpillar site of Gosselies, who came to present to them the social agreement concluded as part of the closure of the site, while setting out their point of view, all the pleasure they had to work, among other things, with the Walloon government, which allowed to recover the site for a euro. They told us something quite surprising. Thus, I was outraged to learn that negotiations on this agreement were concluded at the Ministry of Employment and Labour, two days in a row, without food, heating or water. All the more so since under these conditions, the trade union organisations were told by Mr Thompson, the financial director of the Caterpillar Group, that "if they could not find a solution at midnight, all the proposals he made would be obsolete." You can imagine that these working conditions are intolerable, especially when it comes to important issues for the thousands of workers who worked on the site. Therefore, Minister, I hope that these conditions are not the image that the government wishes to convey and that they do not participate in a disinvestment in social and collective relations on your part and on the part of the federal government with trade union organizations, which we would like to undermine. They said: "We dare to hope that this is only an example of Belgian surrealism". Is it true, Minister, that the negotiations took place under these conditions? Without heating, water, or food for two days? If so, why did this happen? I hope you will reassure me that these working conditions do not mean a disinvestment in social and collective relations with workers' representatives, or even a nose for social consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u13	Mr. President, Mr. Massin, I have a little history here. You've been following Caterpillar's story. Caterpillar underwent a first restructuring in 2013 and announced a new collective redundancies on September 2, 2016. A new procedure for informing and consulting workers' representatives has therefore been initiated. A new file is therefore being drawn up; this is not a continuation of the previous restructuring. The applicable rules concerning the age of access to the scheme of unemployment with a supplement to enterprises are valid in view of the date of the announcement of collective redundancies. This date corresponds to the date of the beginning of the period of recognition as a restructuring undertaking. In September 2016, it is not legally possible to request a reduction in the age of access to the CCB above 55 years. The parties concerned filed in December 2016 at the Registry of the Directorate-General for Labour Relations, collective labour agreements concerning the RCC and requesting a lowering of the age to 55. I must strictly abide by the legislation in force in the application of rules which are already derogations from the general principle. The restructuring carried out by Caterpillar in 2013 was subject to legislation allowing for a further start in RCC at 52 and a half years, as well as the restructuring carried out by Ford Genk in 2012. You are aware that in the area of CCB, the age of access to these plans has been gradually raised over the years. Of course, the Minister of Finance is responsible for the demand for defiance. As far as the Renault law is concerned, the social partners have dealt with the problem of collective restructuring and redundancies. The review of the improvements and/or corrections to be made, including my proposals, is currently under way within the National Labour Council. The 2017-2018 interprofessional agreement provides for the social partners to examine by 30 June 2017 the joint proposals that could be formulated. Finally, I would like to clarify some of the elements concerning the conduct of the conciliation office held on the premises of the Employment FPS during a weekend. The company's management was informed that during the weekend only coffee distributors are available. Indeed, the SPF does not have canteen staff during the weekends. As a result, the company's management has itself been responsible for bringing the necessary drinks. Furthermore, none of the officers of other services present in the building during the weekend complained about the temperature on the premises. As usual, Saturday and Sunday meetings were frequently suspended to give the opportunity to eat or buy sandwiches nearby. I believe that conditions can be improved and I will ask my administration to make proposals. It is not linked to a disregard for social dialogue. The administration is also the victim of several budget rounds. I have asked for proposals to prevent this from happening again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u14	Minister, thank you. Your answer was particularly long, since my question was attached to Mrs Fonck's question when their objects were different. I had no doubt that you favoured social consultation. So your wish was not to divest you of these social relationships. But, if we are used to painting surrealistic paintings, the medium was this time not a painting, but actors, who suffered from it. I hear the firm was informed. The only problem is, it's not just the firm that was there. It's a first thing. Secondly, I took note that you were going to ask for proposals from the Employment and Labour FPS so that this would not happen again. I believe it is essential, because working for two full days, in the endish, under the threat of the employer, without having to drink and eat and, as the organisations representing the workers have said, without heating – but I have taken note of the challenges of the SPF – these are not conditions that are acceptable. It seems to me that in discussions or negotiations with the FEB, we are still better received. Perhaps you can confirm it to me based on your previous jobs? I believe that it is essential that from the moment that trade union organisations and an employer decide to go to the SPF Employment and Labour to negotiate and meet there, the least thing is that they are received in good conditions. Of course, they are not asked to have pizzas or hot dishes but to make available some sandwiches and bottles of flat water and sparkling water. That's the least I can do! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u15	Mr Hedebouw cannot be present, his question No. 18091 is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u16	Minister, the new Peeters Act, as it is called, as part of the career savings account, saves time to take leave later. This is positive for you: a recent survey shows that 67.3% of workers and 59.2% of employers consider this measure to be positive. Nevertheless, many believe that this measure is one of the most complex of the law to be implemented. Beyond that, it is pointed out by labour law lawyers. Indeed, it raises many questions, particularly in terms of the management of accounts by the employer for its employees - the responsibility of the employer for this management. The costs involved are also called into question, and the questions that arise if the worker changes business. According to the labour lawyers I was talking about, the whole should or could be settled by the social partners at the National Labour Council. I have several questions about this career savings account, minister. Beyond the intervention of the social partners, I wonder whether you and the government intend to take concrete steps to ensure that this account is properly implemented. Will it be the employer and only he who will have to manage this account for his employees? Do you already have an idea of the costs to the company? Fundamental question: what happens if the worker changes society? Beyond changing society, how do things happen if the company goes bankrupt or disappears? Will you ask the social partners to come together to discuss it? If you have already asked for their opinion, do you have a specific agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u17	Mr Massin, the law of 5 March 2017 on feasible and manageable work created a legal framework to set up a career savings account system. This new concept offers the worker the opportunity to save time in order to take it later during his appointment, in the form of leave. In this way, the worker has the opportunity to manage part of his career and to incorporate moments of respite, when he considers them necessary. The worker may not be obliged to participate in the time-saving account system. He has complete freedom. Similarly, the employer is not obliged to organise the time-saving account system within the company. It is important to note that unlike other measures of the law on work that can be done and manageable that can be activated since 1 February 2017 at sectoral level, this is not the case for the system of the career savings account. The law of 5 March 2017 provides for an entry into force at the earliest on 1 August 2017, with a possibility of postponement by royal decree until 1 February 2018. For your information – but you are as always well informed –, this draft royal decree is being drafted and its entry into force will be effective on February 1, 2018. The aim is to respond to the desire of the social partners represented in the National Labour Council (NCT) to be able to develop regulations on this subject themselves, in order to achieve a more practical measure. If they reach an agreement before February 1, 2018, then the current legal framework will not apply. Therefore, sectors and companies wishing to use this framework must wait for the views of the social partners before taking steps to apply the time-saving account measure in practice. Therefore, the initiative of the service provider referred to in your question certainly concerns another framework, purely conventional. Indeed, the employer always has the opportunity to offer additional days of leave to workers. The parties may take them at the time and in the form desired by the parties. On the other hand, and you know as well as I do, statutory holidays cannot be spared, because the regulations on annual holidays expressly provide that they must be taken within 12 months of the end of the previous holidays. As for the conventional days of leave granted by the sector, the employer will have to ensure that the hierarchy of standards is respected. Finally, as regards the validity of such a mechanism in terms of taxation and social security, I would refer you to my colleagues in charge of these matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u18	Minister, thank you. My reply will be very brief. We have to wait until 2018. I hope that the social partners represented on the National Labour Council will lead to an agreement that can remove several uncertainties. Indeed, the investigation shows that there is a clear interest in this measure. In addition, I hope that your present commitment to waiting for the agreement of the social partners on the proposed measures will also be respected by the whole government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u19	Mr President, Minister, according to an investigation conducted by the Tempo Team Interim Agency, a fifth of the workers and employers are concerned about the consequences of your new law on flexibility at work. This test was conducted with a sample of 1,050 workers and employers. The least we can say is that there is less enthusiasm than in the career savings account. Indeed, 20% of employers and workers are concerned because they feel that the changes made by the law are worrying. 43% of the sample believe that the whole law will not be easy to implement because, in general, they believe that its implementation will require a lot of work and will result in additional administrative costs for businesses. For example, the development of occasional telework, voluntary overtime and floating hours will require negotiation with employee representatives to change collective agreements or labour regulations. In addition, many questions are also to be detected at the level of measures such as the least conto, the annualisation of working time and the indefinite acting period, which are, in particular, twice as much desired by employers as by workers. For these respondents, all this involves a considerable amount of work and it is necessary to provide answers by providing more information and taking concrete measures, particularly at the level of government and social consultation. Minister, have you been aware of this investigation? What are your responses to the concerns of workers and employers? Are you going to take royal orders? If so, can you give them to us? Do you have any idea what additional administrative costs this legislation will entail for businesses? Do you have any idea how much more work it will generate? With regard to measures such as the most minor conto, the annualisation of working time and indefinite acting, some employers say that this seems unclear to them. Do you share their analysis? Will you consult with workers' and employers' representatives to provide answers to their questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u20	You will not be unaware, Minister, that the labour market and labour law are constantly evolving. The law of 5 March 2017 on workable and manoeuvrable work, also known as the Peeters Act, seeks to provide a response, in particular by improving working conditions throughout the career and increasing the sustainability of the work. So they want to keep as many people working as possible for as long as possible. Flexibility is central to this. The law provides for a wide range of measures that can be used: sliding timetables, occasional telework, career savings, constant training, vacation days, etc. Certain measures are immediately applicable, others are subject to prior negotiations. Employers and trade unions are currently negotiating the concrete implementation of the law on workable and manoeuvrable work. The biennial sector negotiations are an ideal opportunity for this. According to the press, I realise that we should not always believe them. Some negotiations have already been concluded, but are still waiting for the adoption of the supporters. For other points, the discussions are still ongoing. A total of five collective agreements have already been submitted. Some aspects of the law do not affect employers, others do not affect trade unions. Mr Minister, can you update the state of play on the measures provided for in the Act of 5 March 2017? These measures include working time, part-time work and holidays. I have listed about eight points in my written submission. Do you think the criticism is justified from certain angles? Thirdly, when do you think that all the countries involved and that the law will effectively enter into force and be implemented? Fourthly, will you possibly take additional flanking measures if the social partners fail to implement the law effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, you must not believe everything that appears in the press. Unfortunately, that also applies to what is raised in the questions. I'll get back to you on that. Secondly, we must, of course, look at and evaluate how things are going in practice. First of all, we need to give time and space to put what is laid down in a law into practice. I just wanted to say that in advance. For the implementation of the law on feasible and manageable work, consultation at the sector and enterprise level has an important role to play in complementing and developing the menus provided for in the aforementioned law. Concerns about the administrative burdens and costs that may result from the new measures are understandable, but a thorough assessment of a new law can only be done if there is sufficient space and time for actors on the ground to benefit from it. Let us therefore first grant this space and time for social consultation and then carry out the evaluation later! The sectoral negotiations in the Joint Committees and Sub-Committees have, understandably, only really started after the publication in the Belgian Official Journal of the Law of 5 March 2017 and the Law of 9 March 2017 amending the Law of 1996 on the remuneration standard, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, after the National Labour Council of 21 March 2017 collective agreement No. 119 fixing the maximum margin for labour cost development for the period 2017-2018 and collective agreements 120 to No. In the case of various systems of unemployment with single payment and time-credit. The law was passed here, then published and then all other phases had to be completed. I would just like to point out that we need to give some time before an evaluation or an in-depth discussion can take place here in committee. The sectoral negotiations, in addition to the measures contained in the WWW Act, naturally also cover a number of important issues such as wage developments. Sectoral agreements have already been concluded in a number of sectors, sometimes still to be translated into implementing directives. In many sectors there are currently draft sectoral agreements for a formal agreement. Its approval is a matter of days. However, in a considerable number of sectors, negotiations are still ongoing, while other sectors still have to start discussions. If I were to give you a concrete update on the state of play of the measures under the WWW Act, this would at present only give a partial picture. An overview that we consulted with stakeholders on 19 June 2017 shows that agreements have already been concluded in 35 sectors. Thirty-five sectors are more than five according to the press! So 35 sectors have already concluded agreements. The themes that have resulted most from an agreement are investment in training. This concerns 28 of these 35 sectors. There are also sectors that have concluded agreements on flexibility in work organisation such as annualisation, career savings and a quota of voluntary overtime. The statement that, according to the press, negotiations were difficult, does not correspond to this reality. After all, negotiations have only recently begun effectively and 35 agreements have already been concluded. If people say that there are only five collective agreements, this does not correspond to reality. The journalist in question should be better informed. From the date of 15 March, the date of entry into force of the WWW Act, more than 200 collective agreements were concluded on all subjects, including the WWW Act, until 15 June 2017. So that is a bit wider, a whole package of collective agreements that are not directly related to the WWW Act. Thus, saying that the sectoral negotiations are on apegapen is not correct, apart from the fact that the claim that only five collective agreements relate to WWW is also incorrect. I would like to stress once again that I, as Minister for Employment, cannot and will not intervene in the autonomous sectoral social dialogue. This consultation is a consultation between employers' and employees' organisations. So I am not going to intervene, which was not your question either. I would also like to mention that many parts of that WWW-law have already entered into force on 1 February 2017, so even with retroactive effect. Finally, I will not take any accompanying measures for the time being. As I have indicated, the law is only in force for three months. It is therefore important now and certainly for the summer recess that we give every opportunity to the sector consultation and consultation at company level so that the menu provided by the legislator under the WWW Act could be fully exploited by the social partners. You will agree with me that a period of three months is very short so that a law and its implementation by means of certain implementing decisions and through the sectoral and enterprise consultation would be at cruising speed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u22	Mr President, I will be very brief. For once, it is urgent to wait. I hope that this will serve other issues that the government will not fail to put on Parliament's table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u23	Mr President, Minister, we are very pleased that the implementation of the law is at cruising speed. Of course, we need to show some patience. Given the importance of this law for our economy, however, you will not blame us for keeping a close eye on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u24	Mr President, Minister, we are still in a rather extraordinary country! Indeed, in recent months the economic situation in Flanders has been so flourishing, especially in West Flanders, that calls are being made by Flemish and Flemish companies in particular, in the north of France, to recruit staff, even without training. However, it is well known that the province of Hainaut, which is just next to the province of West Flanders in particular, is the most affected by unemployment. Between the Borinage – I take the middle of Hainaut – and the province of West Flanders, fifty or sixty kilometres ago. It would therefore be logical for the H annoyers to respond in bulk to the job offers of Flemish companies. Could you then, Minister, give me an evolution of the numbers of Walloon workers working in Flanders for each of the years since 2013? Indeed, I think it's a movement that should be encouraged rather than brought in Chs. I don't have anything against the Chotis. My husband's too, but I still prefer to be occupied by Walloons rather than Chotis!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u25	Mr President, Minister, in the same theme, I have gone back into the figures. Some of them are a little contradictory. The VDAB figures show that the number of Walloon workers who received employment in Flanders increased between 2014 and 2016. From nearly 13,500 Walloon workers who found employment in Flanders in 2014, we would have increased to just under 17,000 in 2016. In a second phase, the SPF Economy indicated at the beginning of May that fewer and fewer Walloon workers have been working in Flanders for five years. This trend is also continuing over the past two years. Minister, the figures seem a little contradictory between regional services and yours. Can you provide an update on this? What evidence has been brought to your attention that, since 2014, there have been more and more Walloon workers in Flanders, but that, at the same time, the overall number of Walloons working in Flanders is constantly decreasing? These figures lead me to ask you a more general question. What are your analyses of interregional mobility in Belgium? Are the measures to facilitate this mobility introduced by the various regions responsible for employment supported by the federal government? We will soon arrive at the end of the first half of 2017. What are the forecasts for 2017 as well as for 2017 as a whole?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Flahaux, Mrs Winckel, according to the annual data of the Labour Force Survey of the Directorate-General for Statistics of the FPS Economy, in 2013, 49,547 Walloon workers were employed in the Flemish Region, corresponding to 3.7% of Walloon workers. This number remained stable in 2014 with 49,553 workers. This figure decreased to 40,478 units in 2015 before returning to 43,211 workers in 2016, or 3.2% of the Walloon workers. Of these Walloon workers in the Flemish Region in 2013, 22,309 resided in the province of Hainaut, representing almost 45% of Walloon workers in the Flemish Region. In 2016, they were only 19,908 but still account for 46% of Walloon workers in the Flemish Region. Finally, of the Hainaut workers employed in the Flemish Region, 6,581 were employed in the province of West Flanders in 2013, i.e. almost 30% of the Hainaut workers employed in the Flemish Region. This number decreased to 4,722 units in 2016, or almost 24% of Walloon workers in the Flemish Region. The reduction in the total number of Walloon workers in Flanders over the last four years must be the result of the number of departures, which is higher than the new influxes. The reason for the large number of departures is not known at this time and should be further examined. In any case, this is not the result of early retirement or retirement, given the age pyramid of Walloon workers working in Flanders. The source for the overall evolution of the number of persons employed (i.e. the labour force survey) and the source for the new Walloon workers in Flanders (the regional institutions) are two different sources and should therefore be interpreted with some caution. No forecasts are available for 2017. As regards interregional mobility within Belgium, it is first and foremost the Regions which are competent. I agree, in any case, with all the initiatives aimed at increasing the geographical mobility of workers and those seeking employment that my regional colleagues are taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u27	Minister, thank you. These figures are extremely interesting. Indeed, we expected them to evolve upwards, such as job offers in Flanders, and especially in West Flanders. Video clips, videos and broadcasts are made to call the northern French to work in West Flanders. It would be expected that the number of boring Hs would also increase. But the figures you have given us show that this is not the case. On the contrary! Is it due to bad information, bad communication? Unfortunately, unemployment is still quite high, especially in Hainaut and Liège compared to Flanders. Normally, there should not be a reduction in the number of jobs. You insisted that it was not due to the start of the pension or to the early pension. Perhaps it is due to the fact that after some time, when Hainaut workers find a job in Flanders, they simply settle there? In that case, I imagine they're coming out of the statistics of those who are still in Hainaut. They just become Flandrians like the others, if I may say so. It's certainly interesting. I hope that the Minister of Employment of the Walloon Region – we still don't know who it will be in a month – will take language with you to find solutions. Currently, there are job opportunities in Flanders. Good, and I admire Flanders. It's stupid to see that 50 or 60 kilometres seem so difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u28	Minister, my reply will be short. Thank you for these figures. It is true that they should be analysed with caution. [[...]] It is important to work on this interregional mobility. We all have to win. The more we build bridges between the Regions, the more positive it is for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u29	Minister, as you are no doubt aware, the Francophone Volunteer Platform has launched a petition to remove the requirement for pre-declaration of volunteerism for indemnified job seekers. As a reminder, all unemployed and pre-pensioners who wish to volunteer must declare this to the ONEM before engaging in the activity in question. According to the Francophone Volunteer Platform, this obligation would hinder the possibility of volunteering while being a job seeker. The mere fact of having to report the activity to the ONEM would be sufficient reason not to do so. The person concerned would fear problems. Formalization would also be experienced as an unnecessary harassment, when one simply wants to give a hand. Schedules should be provided or, if not, why it is not possible to determine them in advance. However, there are many arguments in favour of volunteering for the unemployed, not only for those who benefit from their help, but also for the unemployed themselves: better health, social reintegration and the acquisition of skills and experience. Volunteering therefore deserves to be encouraged also as a means of avoiding inactivity. On the other hand, I understand that drifts should also be avoided and, if necessary, punished. I am thinking not only of black work, but also of the use of volunteerism to avoid recruiting staff. It therefore seems to me normal that an unemployed person cannot voluntarily help a business or a commercial company, for example. Therefore, Minister, has the effectiveness of the current procedure been assessed? How does the ONEM process the information collected using these declarations? On the basis of what criteria is the activity authorised or not? What is the average refusal rate? Is it true that practices can diverge from one office to another? Once the decision has been taken and communicated to the person concerned, what follow-up has been put in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u30	Minister, volunteering is a right that is accessible to all, and that provides an opportunity for development. However, all unemployed and pre-retirement workers wishing to volunteer must complete a form, the C45B, which must be completed and sent to ONEM before the start of volunteering. However, according to some associations, such as the Platform francophone du Volontariat, this administrative approach would be costly and would be a hindrance for some potential volunteers. In response to the announcement of the bill that should be introduced this summer to amend the 2005 Volunteer Act, the Platform francophone du Volontariat sent you - and your colleague Maggie De Block - a letter with the aim of making their arguments heard. Minister, what is the government's position on this issue? Is it planned to include the removal of the C45B in the upcoming bill? Have you met with members of the Platform francophone du Volontariat or other representative associations in order to obtain their views? I know that you are participating in many consultation meetings. That is why I think it is wise for you to meet with representatives of the sector. Finally, what response will you provide to the Platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u31	Mrs Caprasse and Mrs Winckel, let me begin by saying that I am fully aware of the positive effects of volunteering, both personally for the unemployed and for society. In the interest of honest initiatives, however, it is still necessary for a public body to check whether certain activities are misqualified as "volunteership" and therefore not cumulative with unemployment benefits. In Belgium, there are some 94,000 ASBLs. The activities of some of them are very close to those of commercial companies. Examples include hospitals, day-care centres, sports clubs, social secretariats, non-profit organizations created to organize a commercial activity, such as major cultural or sporting events and festivals. Many of these BLSOs operate under conditions similar to those of commercial companies and are therefore in a competitive position with them. The creation of an ASBL is not subject to administrative control. In addition, the functioning of the system is only marginal. Organizations that take action to remove the obligation to declare voluntary service to ONEM are the spokespersons for many good faith non-profit organizations serving an unquestionable humanitarian and social purpose. The dedication of these volunteers brings undeniable added value to society as well as to those concerned. In drafting the Law of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers, account was taken of the risk of abusive employment of volunteers as cheap labour or as black workers under cover of volunteerism. For this reason, section 13 of the Act recognizes the competence of the Director of the ONEM to refuse or authorize volunteering only within certain limits. This is the case when it can prove that the activity in question does not have the characteristics of volunteering within the meaning of the law, or that the activity – by its nature, duration and frequency or by reason of the framework within which it falls – does not have or more the characteristics of an activity usually carried on by volunteers in associative life. The ONEM has supervisory powers to check whether the unemployed in receipt of compensation are not engaged in an activity incompatible with the allowance. The removal of the reporting obligation to the ONEM may lead to an increase in the misuse of the legal form of the ASBL, which would not be in favour of honest ASBLs. This would also reduce the legal certainty of the volunteer as, in the absence of a prior declaration, the risk of a post-factum finding of illegal situations increases. The number of cases in which the ONEM refuses to apply for voluntary service is limited, for example, participation in a reality television programme for a commercial channel, non-emergency and paid secondary transport of the patient by ambulance and teaching during school hours in an educational institution of a subject which is part of the training programme to obtain a diploma. This, in my view, shows that the obligation to declare has its full meaning. However, not all unemployed people volunteering must declare it individually. The ONEM may grant general authorisation to certain bodies, which is accompanied by an exemption from the requirement of individual declaration. For example, Amnesty International, ATD Fourth World, the Belgian Institute for Road Safety, Blindenzorg Licht en Liefde, Caritas International, Broederlijk Delen, etc. Such a general authorisation is also possible when an ASBL organises an event involving the participation of many volunteers in the jurisdiction of an unemployment office and possibly a neighbouring unemployment office, e.g. an event organised by a football club, a music festival, etc. The maintenance of the declaration therefore retains its full meaning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that minimum control is necessary. However, I think that many volunteers do not want to go back to an administrative burden. As my colleague suggested, it might be useful to meet with certain sectors of volunteerism to hear what they have to say and to consider the solutions to be offered in order to organise minimum control without discouraging the unemployed or pre-pensioners who wish to become involved in volunteering. There are improvements to be made and there is no doubt that consultation would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u33	Minister, I agree with what Mrs Caprasse has said. Since you did not answer my question about your possible meeting with representatives of the Francophone Volunteer Platform, I imagine that was not done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u34	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u35	Yes? The firm met with several associations, including Francophones and others. I think it is important to consult the sector because its inquiries seemed consistent to me. According to this sector, there would be unequal treatment of files from one office of the ONEM to another, with vague grounds for refusal. This element needs to be investigated. Knowing the number of cases of refusal by the ONEM and the reasons given would make it possible to make progress on this issue. The association also pointed out that each declaration requires treatment by government officials, which generates costs, for a result that does not meet the objectives. I think it should be possible to keep control while modernising the procedure, in order to reduce the cost. I will return to this subject by stressing the importance of working with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u36	Mr President, Mr Minister, the Molière clause set up in Angoulême by the city's finance assistant now obliges, in France, where it was also subsequently adopted, the staff of the BTP (building and public works) to speak French on public works projects. The reasons for the introduction of this clause are to facilitate communication between stakeholders and to improve safety conditions on construction sites. Behind these official reasons is the desire to restrict access to the yards to posted workers and, therefore, the aim is to partially curb a form of social dumping which is very persistent in this country. Minister, while you are aware of the message from Confederation Construction, social dumping in construction continues to increase and, despite the growth of construction sites, the number of workers is decreasing. Do you not think that such a clause – "Goethe" or "Vondel" clause but in any case a triple clause – should be imposed in Belgium in order to allow at least for workers to speak at least one of the three national languages on construction sites? It would seem to me to be a matter of common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Clarinval, the use of languages in Belgium, particularly in the context of social relations, is a matter for the Communities. The use of languages in documents in the context of social relations in the Brussels-Capital Region and in the municipalities with facilities is a matter for the federal government. Admittedly, in practice, there are several actors in construction projects (workers and self-employed, entrepreneurs, designers, etc.) have insufficient knowledge of our national languages and, therefore, of the usual languages used on the site. This can lead to problems of understanding instructions and communication problems between the operators of the site, which can lead to accidents. In the context of the Belgian national strategy on well-being at work for the period 2016-2020, I have proposed in particular to pay attention to foreign workers who have insufficient knowledge of a national language and therefore do not sufficiently understand the safety rules or who do not understand what is expected of them. Representatives of the CNAC Constructiv, the prevention institute for enterprises and workers of the Joint Construction Commission, and the social partners in construction have already proposed several actions, among others to improve language skills and communication with foreign workers. It should be noted that several free tools are already available to the actors of the project to help them manage the challenges of the languages on their site. Examples include: - the illustrated brochure of the CNAC Constructiv, produced at the request of the ILO, among others, which aims to make construction workers aware of certain hazards and to inform them about the right working methods and preventive measures. - the silent films of the Napo character of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (OSHA). - Contracteranto, the European online dictionary on terminology related to work and safety in the construction, chemistry, steel and health care sectors. - the Non-binding Guide to Good Practice to better understand and apply the European Directive 92/57/EEC "Chantiers". Here are some examples to illustrate what has already been achieved. The current regulations on temporary or mobile work sites, which are part of the regulations on well-being at work, already provide for obligations to be borne by the various actors. They must ensure that the preventive measures at the site are respected by the people they use. This also means ensuring that the instructions for such regulations are communicated and understandable to the consignee, and that they are understood and properly complied with by the consignee. At present, imposing a general obligation to use only one or more national languages on the site for all actors, including workers at the site and, by extension, prohibiting the use of other modes of communication on the site, may be challenged by European authorities and by certain providers established in Belgium or abroad. Indeed, such a general taxation could be seen as an obstacle to the free movement of persons and services which is applicable within the European Union, which would not be proportional to the praiseworthy objective of facilitating communication between stakeholders on the site and improving safety and health conditions on the site. There are other ways to manage the diversity of languages on site. Such regulatory taxation would also be an obstacle to the occupational integration of workers who are established in Belgium but do not have mastery of national languages, whether or not they are of foreign origin. Such a tax does not in itself guarantee compliance with the safety instructions for workers, since it depends rather on the supervision and proper control of workers on construction sites. Finally, with regard to the choice of the language(s) of the construction site, we believe that it is also necessary to allow the contractor to take account of the specific nature of his construction site and the relevant employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for this very comprehensive answer. Firstly, I know that some of the responsibilities lie with the Communities and the Regions. Secondly, I note that a whole series of measures have already been taken and are moving in the right direction. Good! I believe, however, that we should go further in the fight against social dumping. Finally, this axis, which would require at least one person in the yard to master one of the three national languages, should be one of the elements of your reflection for the future, in order to combat this social dumping which is so damaging to the construction sector in Belgium. I have no doubt that, in the context of the discussions that you have had recently and that you will still have in the years to come with our European partners, you will be able to go further in this respect in the fight against social dumping, for example through this clause.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u39	Mr.President, Minister, on October 17, 2016, you received a trade union delegation to defend the rights of call centre workers. The delegation denounced the reform of working time initiated by your Government, which intends to provide even more flexibility in a sector that is heavily subject to it. Trade unions have also highlighted working conditions in these call centres, as workers are often employed under temporary daily contracts. We are talking about quality of employment, quality of life. However, when we know the day before that we are going to work the next day, we must recognize that it is difficult to live in such conditions. This fact also reminds us of the one which was reported to you in plenary session and which was related to DHL Aviation. After defending your bill, you made a commitment to contact the employers to improve the situation and the dialogue with the unions. To date, unless I am mistaken, the press does not mention the measures you have taken since 17 October 2016. Minister, can you tell us which employers you have contacted or met? How did this contact go? What came out of it? Have you been able to find any agreements? Has an agenda been drawn up yet? In general, could you provide an update on the whole issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Winckel, in addition to the delegation of trade unions, I also received the delegation of employers' organisations. It was composed of the president of the Federation of Contact Centers and the CEOs of the two largest call centers in Belgium. The purpose of the meeting was not to conclude agreements but to be kept informed of the situation in the sector. The message I gave was that the possibilities offered by the labour law that is feasible and manageable must be fully exploited in order to make work feasible, for example by introducing floating hours, career savings account, training of workers and also with a view to combating burn-out. On the other hand, I stressed that measures to make manoeuvrable, for example, the annualisation of working time, can be introduced through social consultation at the level of the sector and the enterprise. I therefore made a warm appeal for this social dialogue to be reinvigorated. Finally, I hope that the chapter on temporary contracts of indefinite duration will be implemented in a sectoral collective agreement concluded within the Joint Commission for Temporary Work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u41	Minister, I confess that I will read the answer again because I have not heard everything. I would like to draw attention to one thing. If I understand correctly, you have received the trade union delegation and delegations from employers and you have been able to exchange. I draw your attention to the difficulty of workers who do not know the day before that they work the next day. It is difficult to live in such conditions in the long term. I call for reflection on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u42	Minister, in the document of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, the limit value of asbestos exposure for workers is set at 100 fibres per litre of air. When we know that the WHO recommends one fibre per litre of air and that the limit value for French people is 10, it is surprising that this standard of 100 fibres per litre of air is accepted. This limit value is not a guarantee of health protection. What do you think? Is a revision of this standard under consideration? If so, can you give us the timing? If not, do you not think that consideration should be given to this standard? If so, will you initiate him? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u43	Mr President, if you agree to this, as well as the questioner present here, I will reply with all the elements. Your fellow Members will be very grateful if we all give that to you, I hope. The Royal Decree of 16 March 2006 on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos constitutes the transposition into Belgian law of the European Directive 2009/148. This KB was an answer to a new reality. As a result of the ban on asbestos in Belgium, exposure to asbestos fibres took place only in areas such as cleaning, repairing, renovating or removing asbestos or materials containing asbestos. The obligations listed in Mrs Gerkens' question have therefore been included in this Royal Decree since 2006. I would like to underline a number of things. As regards the checks during the period 2014-2016, 2,058 planned asbestos removal works were notified to my inspection department, as required by the Royal Decree. On the basis of this notification, 3,059 inspection visits were carried out. No infringements were found in 56% of cases. In the other cases, a corrective opinion or an oral or written warning was given, depending on the seriousness of the facts, or measures were imposed and agreements were made. In two cases the works were shut down. In one percent of cases, a pro justitia has been established. In parallel with these targeted inspection visits on the basis of notifications, the asbestos aspect was also taken into account in 1975. Another inspection file is opened, for example when the inspector requests the asbestos inventory or when the inspector finds a potential asbestos problem. Because of the confidentiality, I cannot of course provide information on specific inspection files, but I can tell you that the images of the asbestos dump in Sint-Niklaas will be investigated by the competent inspection of the Welfare at Work. Following the findings made on the basis of the images, interviews and on-the-spot findings, the inspection may impose the necessary measures to ensure the protection of workers, such as urgent measures in the event of a threat to health and even the immediate closure of the landfill. For possible infringements of environmental legislation, the Flemish Environmental Inspectorate is competent. Currently, 39 companies are licensed in Belgium to carry out asbestos demolition and removal work, as a result of which large quantities of asbestos can be released. The recognition is governed by the Royal Decree of 28 March 2007. In addition to a number of more technical conditions, there are also recognition conditions, of which I have mentioned the most important, but you know them, and so I may not have to repeat them, which makes the answer shorter. Recognitions are limited in time. They shall be awarded for a maximum of five years. In recent years no accreditations have been withdrawn, but our inspectors have given 112 corrective opinions and 480 oral or written warnings for obliged asbestos yards in the period 2015-2016. No approval was granted for six new applications submitted during the same period, due to failure to comply with the conditions for approval as a candidate. The removal of an asbestos-cement roof, referred to in Mr Calomne's question, is generally covered by the so-called simple operations in which only limited asbestos fibres can be released. These works should not be carried out by an approved undertaking, but where workers are involved they are covered by the Royal Decree of 16 March 2006 on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. This means, among other things, that the work must be reported, that specific prevention measures must be used and that workers must be trained. Fifth, the federal authority has developed several information brochures on asbestos. They are available in electronic form from the websites of the public services concerned. I have taken a small list of all these brochures for you. Sixthly, with regard to the possible reduction of limit values. As regards the reduction of the limit value for occupational exposure to asbestos, I can tell you that the Belgian limit value is currently equal to the European limit value. The Netherlands and France have recently lowered their limit values. That is why I have instructed my administration to inform about the approach in both countries. A reduction in the limit value cannot be implemented in Belgium in the short term, since it would be accompanied by a change in the measurement method, from an optical microscopy to an electronic microscopy and a choice between transmission electron microscopy and Scanning Electrons Microscopy, which is all very interesting and very complicated. In Belgium, no laboratory is currently recognised for asbestos analysis on the basis of these techniques, which are also more complex and expensive, both in terms of materials and personnel, which will be passed on to the customer. Nevertheless, the administration has been given the following task. I have asked the administration to examine the case of the two countries where the limit value has been changed. Asbestos is one of my priorities. I have explicitly included this in my political statement and in the contract of administration with the Employment FPS. On the basis of the recommendations of a group of experts from my administration on current scientific concepts and techniques and a comparative study of practices in our neighbouring countries, I will propose to the social partners of the Higher Council for Prevention and Protection at Work a refinement and updating of the existing regulatory framework, with a view to achieving a better level of protection for workers who may be exposed to asbestos. As Minister of Employment, my expertise in asbestos is limited to protecting the health of workers exposed to asbestos. For information on environmental legislation, asbestos removal policy and possible subsidies granted to individuals on account of the asbestos environment, I refer you to the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u44	Minister, I am glad to see that this is one of your concerns. European standards are 100 times higher than those of the World Health Organization. If Europe had some of its buildings decombossed at great expense, it considered this to be an important issue. Thank you, therefore, for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Caprasse's 18588 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u46	Mr Minister, we have already held this debate in plenary on the occasion of the report on abuses of broadcasting contracts with DHL. You mentioned three things in your reply. You indicated that you would have an investigation conducted by the administration about this company and other companies, you also indicated that it is about a reality and that it probably exists with other companies. You would consult with the social partners on collective agreement No. 108, because it clearly doesn't work. And on the basis of the research you have carried out, you would examine with the social partners what steps you will take. What is the result of the research that you have carried out? What concrete steps will you take to avoid such abuses?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u47	Mr Minister, my question is in line with this, but it places a different emphasis on the subject. I do not need to explain the subject to you. I would like to add that in the meantime it has become known that 50 temporary workers have received a permanent contract with DHL in the last month and that another 75 day workers will follow next month. What is the result of the search by your inspection? What is the outcome of the consultation with the social partners? To what extent should the legislation in force be amended? Do you consider the working methods of the labour inspectorate to be dependent on an agreement between employers and trade unions, an efficient and logical way of working? Do you believe that the trade unions have acted sufficiently efficiently and decisively in the case of DHL? They had been aware of these abuses for more than a year and responded late, only after the Pano reportage. In other words, they could not have acted themselves or acted earlier in the context of the powers conferred on them by collective agreement No. 108 of 16 July 2013?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u48	Mr. Secretary, that report by Pano has produced quite a lot. In the meantime DHL has announced that it will offer 150 temporary workers a permanent contract. That's good news, but of course that's not the end of the story. In this case, the damage to temporary work in general is very serious. In the meantime, however, it appears that 41% of the employees recruited by Flemish companies under permanent contracts had a temporary employment contract with the same company. An ACV survey shows that temporary workers generally give their work a score of 7.28 out of 10, which is an award. Secondly, the law is clear: no consecutive daily contracts, only in exceptional circumstances. It should be clear that this is not the case with DHL. You've already opened an investigation. Thirdly, Mr Van der Donkt halade, it is very strange that the trade unions have not mentioned these practices to the Joint Committee. However, they can do so under Article 35 (2) of collective agreement No. 108. I have some questions for you. First of all, what is the status of the case, of the investigation? Secondly, do you think there is such a problem with other companies? Thirdly, have you discussed the system with the social partners? What's their point of view? Can we find other methods to detect such abuses instead of having to wait every time for reports on radio or television?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before the Pano broadcast, the monitoring of social laws, the Halle-Vilvoorde Executive Board, started an investigation into DHL Aviation Start People and its successive daily contracts. Two themes will be examined. It will be checked whether the motives for temporary agency work have been correctly applied and the impact and extent of successive day contracts will be mapped. First work is done on selections of interims comparing two reference periods of "months" of "months." The result will be decisive for further action. This study takes time and has not yet been completed. In the meantime, in the same region around the airport, four similar investigations were started with large users. At national level, a number of similar studies will be carried out by the TSW. To this end, instructions were given to receive and select checks on all information and notifications from regional covenant secretaries. Based on these investigations, we will have a good overview of the extent of the abuse uncovered in Pano and the TSW will encourage companies to apply the rules correctly. Secondly, the social partners. As a result of the Pano broadcast, on 23 May I also convened the social partners concerned to look at what can be done to prevent such practices in the future. The social partners have already been referred to in collective agreement No. 108 of 16 July 2013 established a special information and consultation procedure for successive daily contracts, which should prevent abuses. Both employers' and employees' representatives have expressed their views on the functioning of that procedure and have committed themselves to the provisions of collective agreement No. 108 to include an effective biennial evaluation as soon as possible. The social partners will evaluate the functioning of this procedure in the National Labour Council on the basis of objective data and examine what improvements can be made. It was also agreed that these discussions would start before this year's summer recess, and then result in an evaluation report in the autumn. In the meantime, all the social partners concerned will call on their members to strictly monitor compliance with the legal framework for successive temporary agency contracts and the correct application of the information and consultation procedure. I have identified a great willingness on the part of all the social partners involved to take action. I am also confident that the necessary steps will be taken in the short term to prevent the abuse of successive temporary agency contracts. A further element is the previous complaints. Finally, it is claimed that the inspection would have already been informed of the situation in DHL Aviation in 2015. The inspection would have been on the spot and found no abuses. Unfortunately, this information is not the first time today and probably not the last time it is not correct. The truth of the matter, which we have requested, is the following. A tweet of an LBC delegate on my Twitter account contains a picture of a letter dated 15 December 2015 from the secretary of DHL Aviation's Works Council. It was addressed to the Business Organisation unit of the FOD WASO, which controls the operation of the works councils, and in cc also to the Supervisory Board of the Social Laws, Halle-Vilvoorde Executive Board. The management Halle-Vilvoorde responded to that letter, which raised several issues: too many temporary workers, late contracts, deduction from wages and so on. However, the main complaint concerned a discussion on the role of temporary workers in the calculation of the mandates for the social elections. As a result of the intervention of the TSW, a special works council was convened on 23 November 2015 to discuss this point. This led to an agreement on the distribution of mandates concluded with the secretaries of the various trade unions. For the TSW it was first and foremost important that the discussions on the social elections could be resolved, because the start of the procedure was close. In the following period, starting at the end of 2015, the TSW, Halle-Vilvoorde Executive Board, also wanted to investigate the other complaints: pay payments, deduction from wages, late or no contract etc. However, on the basis of information obtained from DHL, no evidence of infringement could be found. To continue this investigation at the inhouse temporary agency Start People, on 29 February 2016 it was asked the secretary of the works council for more details and concrete data to be able to concreteise the vague and generalised complaints. Without this information, it is for inspection to look for a needle in a haystack. More specific information was not provided at the time. The content of this e-mail was: "Dear Madam, given the existence of a mutual agreement concerning the mandates within the company, I close my file on this aspect of the complaint. As far as the problems with the in-house interim office are concerned, I should have specific files, since I could not immediately establish criminal offences in the general audit. If you have dates or names, you can forward them to me at any time. With kind regards. The answer to this question was not forthcoming. In addition, it should be noted that the trade unions did not give any further effect to their objections to DHL Aviation's practices by applying the internal monitoring procedure, as determined by collective agreement No. 108. If, in accordance with this procedure, they had made their objections known to the Joint Committee responsible for DHL, this could have led to a decision of the Joint Committee or, in the absence of a compromise, to the referral of the case to the Labour Court. So there is nothing left for me to say but that there is nothing to blame for the supervision of the Social Laws in this regard, which, unfortunately, has been proposed differently in the media. I can also say that, in the fight against social fraud, we have decided to strengthen the inspection of the social laws of the FOD WASO with 59 inspectors, including a number of inspectors from the social inspection. This is a reinforcement of about 15 %. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have been in contact with the social partners. The social partners, together with me, have said that they will start an evaluation before the summer and, after the summer, provide the evaluation report on that collective agreement with that procedure in it. I believe the inspection has done the right thing. There is a notice from DHL that they have offered a number of fixed contracts. I hope that in the autumn we will have a complete view not only of this company but also of other companies, in particular of the collective agreement procedure. 108 and its application, will be able to take further steps if necessary. After seeing the Pano reportage, which was very serious, I can assure you, as I said in plenary, that the situation in Belgium is not acceptable. We will take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad you indicated that what was shown in the reportage is impossible. The interim workers themselves are full of them. I am not saying that we are against interim measures. I had a debate with Mr Muyldermans and he said that 80% of the interim workers were satisfied. This does not mean that we should leave the remaining 20%, because the report showed the situation in which these people ended up. I want to give the evaluation every opportunity. It is a pity that the evaluation has not yet been carried out, as agreed. However, Minister, I hope that it will not just be an evaluation because we will have a report. Actually, we all know where the abuses are. Actually, we all know what's going on. The interim workers indicate that it is time for action, not for yet another report or yet another scandal to emerge. I hope, Minister, that when you receive that evaluation report, you will also take action immediately in September. I will therefore question you about that. Secondly, you say that inspection was not informed. I have listened to your answer very carefully. However, the reportage shows that this situation is not strange for them either. They know that it exists, they know that the wages of interim workers are not always paid correctly, they know that they have to apply for overtime or a night's allowance. So they too are well informed. I hope that, together with the inspection and the social partners, you will be able to make a real change on the ground and that we will not get the answer in the autumn that the evaluation report is there and that everything remains the same. So I'll ask you about this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u51	Minister, we look forward to the evaluation. Hopefully, the actors who have to keep an eye on all of this will, of course, wake up in the future to the trade unions, among other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament 18662 and 18663) by Mrs Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u54	Mr President, Mr Minister, you have asked the social partners to reflect on the subject and to make structural proposals to make it more viable, in certain sectors, that this trial period has been abolished. It is still not clear why this government wants to tackle this important compromise between the social partners in 2014 which was the subject of a comprehensive package. Different elements had led to this. Minister, I have tabled two questions on this subject. Here's the first one. Can you explain the motivations that drive the government to reintroduce the trial period? What benefits would this bring and on what elements did you base yourself on to determine them? What do you mean when you ask the social partners to make "structural" proposals? When will the results of the study on the impact of the elimination of the trial period be available? I come to the supplementary question that I tabled, in which I referred to the fact that you have been working with Minister Borsus on the modalities he proposes for the reintroduction of the trial period. What modalities do you share? He pointed out that the trial period it set out would help to combat social dumping in certain sectors. Can you tell us more about this? Finally, in his statement, Minister Borsus refers to a failure of social consultation on this subject. Can you tell us more about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u55	Mr President, Mr Minister, my question is quite complementary to that of my colleague, Frédéric Daerden, but concerns, in a much more general way, all matters relating to social consultation around the trial period, the notice and the employment of young people. As everyone knows, these are particularly sensitive issues that the social partners are currently discussing. If an agreement seemed close, on 13 June, the trade unions could not endorse the outcome of the negotiations due to the lack of adequate counterparts to offset the decrease in notice during the first six months of occupation and the separate regime for the sectors currently benefiting from an exception. So there was progress and some things were happening between the social partners, but unfortunately some small details were blocked. To the extent that discussions are still under way between the social partners and that the trade union organisations have made it clear that they remain ready to continue the social dialogue. I therefore remain surprised that some members of the government, and your colleagues from the majority, say that social consultation is a failure and that some feel it is appropriate to put pressure on the social partners and that others – we are beginning to get used to it – go over it squarely to move forward without them. I invite you to take up the case again. This isn't the first time, come on! The abolition of the trial period and the harmonisation of notice periods are only a balance, a delicate balance put in place during the single statute. It is obvious that when we question this balance, either we do so in the context of social consultation, which allows us to maintain social peace, or we have "nothing to do" about it, and unfortunately this destroys social peace, which, as a result, causes us to end up in the face of people unhappy with demands. Then we come to say that you are a great advocate of social consultation... You yourself indicated – and I thank you – that you always favour social consultation. Minister, can you commit yourself personally and on behalf of the government not to move forward on this subject without the unanimous agreement of all the social partners? I think that's the least I can do! Can you assure us that the government will not interfere in social consultation to put pressure on certain social partners with a view to reaching a form of agreement or denunciation of social dialogue and peace, which would therefore allow you to legislate on this matter without going through the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u56	Minister, you were in Luxembourg last week for an important meeting of the European Council. During your absence, you received questions from colleagues about the social dialogue in connection with the trial period. At first there was an agreement and suddenly they were whistled back. I don't think that's very common. You know the history. The Constitutional Court ruled in 2011 that this was discrimination. Subsequently, under the unitary statute, the social partners and the government agreed the notice periods in the form of a shorter two-week notice period. However, the social partners had to establish that this sometimes means that employers opt for fixed-term contracts and for the deployment of temporary agency workers, which was not intended to happen immediately. Last week an agreement was reached, but that agreement broke. Firstly, what is your opinion on the draft agreement between the social partners? Do you think that's a good deal or not? Secondly, your colleague, Minister Borsus, himself launched a proposal of at least 15 days and up to six months. Is that a proposal on behalf of the government or is it a personal proposal? Are you behind that? Thirdly, what is the state of play? At what time do you intend to rectify the matter? If the beginning of the agreement completely disappears, then perhaps something else will have to happen. I would have liked to know what that could be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, the government agreement provides for an evaluation by the social partners of the first phase of the single status, with particular attention to the abolition of the trial period and the notice periods. The economic theory says that the longer a notice period is, the less employers offer indefinite contracts. But economic theory is obviously not the only argument that comes into play. The protection of the worker's employment is important from a social point of view: the more the worker feels protected, the more he or she will be committed to his or her employer. The achievement of a balance between these arguments in a specific social and economic context is the responsibility of the social partners and the government. As you know, they took this responsibility in 2013. After a few years, it is therefore time to assess whether the objectives of this reform have been achieved. Everyone realizes that. I have therefore also asked the social partners for their opinions. On 18 April 2016, I asked the NAR to review the first phase of the unit statute and pay particular attention to the notice periods and the abolition of the trial period. Following this request for an opinion, the social partners presented the report 102. On 23 November 2016, I asked the Group of Ten to provide advice on the reintroduction of decreasing youth wages and their net compensation in the context of the 2017 budget format. In addition to agreements on wage standards, welfare envelope and conditions for SWT and runways, the social partners in their interprofessional agreement 2017-2018 have also opened a number of yards on societal challenges, including the two issues that have now been addressed. According to the initial timing in IPA, the partners would deliver an opinion by 30 March on the mobility budget, youth employment, including declining youth wages, cancellation schemes and the pilot period. Only the advice on the mobility budget was ready within the timing. On this occasion, the partners undertook to complete the other two dossiers. The social partners have drawn up a proposal for measures aimed at adjusting the periods of notice at the start of the agreement and promoting the employment of young people. They opposed the reintroduction of the pilot period and the specific baremas for the youngest workers. Last week a kink came into play, because the partners could not honour the pre-agreement. That's where we are today. I would like to add that each minister can, of course, make proposals, but it is the Minister of Work who will look into such a proposal from one minister or another. I was in Luxembourg last week for EPSCO, where the Posting of Workers Directive was discussed. In agreement with my colleague, Mr Koen Geens, I made it very clear that social dialogue is important. We have had contacts over the last week with representatives of the employers' and employees' associations to find out what has gone wrong. We need to see where we stand in the next few days and whether the social dialogue on these two points can still be saved. If that is not the case, we will look at what initiatives we have yet to take, taking into account all the elements I have listed. A Minister of Work must try to acquire at least one quality, namely: patience to invest in social dialogue, several times, in the hope that the social partners will understand each other, because that will get us the furthest. If that does not lead to a solution, the government must assume its responsibility, whatever we will do, if it turns out that social dialogue would not lead to results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for this information. You point out that the concertation is deadlocked, that you are trying to revive it. I think you're right to do that, but I don't feel much hope in you about the outcome of this recovery. If this revival did not succeed, the proposals would be in your hands. Have you ever sent signals to those involved in the consultation? Did you tell them what your proposals would be? This could perhaps prompt them to resume consultation, not to achieve this, or to reach it in a much broader agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u59	Some people have ideas, as well as some political parties; I have not personally launched ideas on both tracks. This can naturally progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u60	My colleague Daerden suggested that you put ideas on the table. Minister, by saying that this can progress, you are already answering the question I intended to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u61	Mr President, Minister, you have announced your willingness to propose, at a forthcoming extraordinary Council of Ministers, a new tax shift for e-commerce and construction, which could eventually be extended to other sectors. In your opinion, this tax shift bis would make these sectors more competitive with our neighbours, particularly the Netherlands. With regard to the construction sector, the issue is not competitiveness but social dumping. You referred, in your previous answer, to the European discussions. A reduction in contributions would only lead to a levelling down for our workers. The government should have acted when transposing the various European directives and making the best use of the various tools at its disposal. We said that at the time. We had denounced a minimum transposition. I deplored this missed opportunity for a sector that suffers job losses every day. Minister, have you already determined the contribution reductions you want to make for each sector? Can you detail them? Are these reductions in sectoral contributions compatible with existing European rules? You leave the door open to other areas. Which ones? Your government still does not know how it will finance its first tax shift. Can you explain how this tax shift bis would be funded?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u62	Minister, my question is about the same theme, your announcement of a tax shift bis. More specifically, it deals with e-commerce. It seems that the reflection is underway within your services. There is strong competition, particularly in the Netherlands, for e-commerce. Dutch companies would indeed be much more competitive than Belgian companies. However, Europe could be a hindrance to these discussions, as sectoral cost reductions are not allowed. Minister, have you had the opportunity to propose your new measures to the government? In particular, what was its position on e-commerce? As it stands, can you outline it? What are your main objectives? What is the place reserved for e-commerce? Has Europe been asked to do so? Has she ever been able to deliver an initial opinion? Other sectors than e-commerce and construction could be covered by this new tax shift. Can you tell us more?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u63	Mr Daerden, Mrs Winckel, we see that the first tax shift, concerning the reduction of workloads on work, has proved to be a success. The OECD has announced the results. You will have observed, like me, that the measure in question was welcomed by this organization as one of the most effective provisions. As a result of this reduction in burdens and other measures taken by the government to moderate the growth of wage costs and because of the responsible position of inter-branch organisations and the social partners, our handicap in terms of wage costs has been reduced. The first tax shift was a general reduction in charges, with particular emphasis on low wages and early recruitment. In recent years, these factors have contributed to strong employment growth - a fact recognized by both national and international institutions. Again, 60,000 jobs were created last year. You will have noticed, like me, that the Plan Office has announced for the third time a number of more than 200,000 jobs created under this legislature. However, there are still sectors where wage gaps remain high at the international level, at least partly explaining the low growth of employment. I named a few in my interview in De Tijd but this list is not exhaustive. The construction sector is particularly affected by the influx of cheap foreign labour through fraudulent or non-fraud detachments. We have already taken many measures on secondment and social dumping. The government and the social partners in the sectors are convinced that further reduction in burdens will benefit employment. The government has already decided to reduce charges by EUR 600 million from 2020. But this is not enough to finance the 6 euros of the hour that the sector considers necessary. The e-commerce sector comprises many logistical activities that are organized from neighbouring countries. We have already made night work possible in e-commerce. I welcomed the development of a framework for experiments aimed at developing e-commerce activities. We are talking to the sectoral social partners about this. It is above all the wage gap in relation to neighbouring countries that explains the delay. According to a Comeos study, the wage gap with the Netherlands is 17%. In the shipbuilding sector, the difference in wage costs is as high as 30% with the Netherlands and Luxembourg. The sector in our country faces strong competition from abroad, despite the potential of this activity. Then there is the transport sector. Here too, we are fighting all kinds of social dumping, but here too, we cannot deny that the cost of wages is a major obstacle to the further development of employment. I would ask that the second tax shift, which I believe is necessary, should focus on sectors and activities, where wage costs are a major obstacle to employment growth. This will make it easier for this tax shift to repay itself. In this context, of course, we must proceed in compliance with EU state aid rules. The special priority of the Council of Ministers in the field of employment and economics must be the creation of additional and high-quality jobs, especially for disadvantaged groups which today have too low employment rates, such as young people, immigrants and persons with disabilities. It is precisely in the sectors that I quote that the opportunities for such groups are high.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, even if they do not convince me. It is clear that there is a need to boost employment and create maximum employment. You're putting forward the figures for Belgium. They're positive. All that would be missing! But a comparison with the average of the European countries leads me to think that there is not necessarily enough to brag and say that the situation is great in Belgium especially when looking at the cost. There is also this element of the cost of employment created to be taken into account. As I said in my question, we have not yet reached the financing of the tax shift 1! To say that it is only thanks to the return effect that you will finance the tax shift n° 2 seems to me reducing. The financing of social security will also have to be considered. As a reaction, I still have one last element to discuss. You yourself say that the wage gap, particularly in transport, is several euros per hour. It is not this reduction in contributions that will resolve this gap with regard to posted workers, and worse still are the other ways of circumvention. I am afraid that with the service passport - we will have the opportunity to talk about it again in the near future - and the risks of drifts in this area, this ultimately reduces to a race to reduce and weaken our social protection system, which is of no use since it will always be cheaper elsewhere. This cannot bear fruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u65	Mr Minister, I fully agree with my colleague, Mr Daerden. We must remain vigilant as it is important to create quality employment without endangering our social security system. So I will not repeat his brilliant words.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u66	With the agreement of the author, Mr Van der Donkt, Question No 5 will be answered as follows: 18730 not set.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u67	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to a subject which we have discussed a number of times and which has been with us for a long time, particularly the Major Act. I will not repeat the entire history, but recently you said that you were looking for a solution for logistics and e-commerce in the port, because that yard is still open. Shortly afterwards, a city council committee came together on the port of Antwerp. Maybe you'll be there someday. Port ships Van Peel was exceptionally replaced there by his colleague Bastiaens, also of your party. To a question not from me, for all the clarity that was directed to her about the Major law, Mrs Bastiaens replied that we all know that the Major law was never meant for logistical work. I can only agree to that. The world would look simpler, especially in Antwerp, should that be in keeping with reality. However, I wanted to hear that confirmed by you. Do you agree with your party companion that the Major Law was never intended for logistical work? Will you therefore remove logistics work and e-commerce from the scope of the Major Act and not try to solve the problem of wage costs through other techniques? What is the state of play in this matter in the negotiations? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u68	Minister, in 2014 the European Commission initiated proceedings against Major Law because it considered it to be in violation of the principle of freedom of establishment. In mid-May this year, the European Commission decided to put an end to this procedure, considering that the reforms made to it were satisfactory. Mr Minister, are all the charges against Belgium definitively lifted in this case? Should further action be taken? Can you provide an update on the status of the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u69	You are, of course, familiar with this dossier, Minister. An agreement has been reached and the European Commission has stopped its procedure. However, the issue of logistics work and e-commerce in the port area has not yet been resolved. There is no objective and reasonable justification for the fact that an employee, who has to sort, pack and send orders, should be regarded by the Major Act as a port operator, simply because his workplace is within the geographical limits of one of the seaport areas, as determined by the Major Act. The status of port worker is specifically intended for the loading and unloading of ships, and not for loading and unloading packages. If we also call that port labour, Bol.com is the largest port company in the world. These are very specific tasks with safety hazards that must remain subject to very specific conditions. It is not true that other tasks, which in fact have no justification for doing so, are also placed under this heading. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Firstly, have you already drawn up a proposal to resolve this problem? Secondly, what are the next steps? Will this proposal be submitted to the social partners? Thirdly, do you agree that e-commerce activities should be taken out of the Major Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u70	Mr President, Mr Klaps, I spoke with Mrs Bastiaens. She was honored that you quoted her. I also told her that, unfortunately, she is not historically right, and neither are you. The scope of the Port Labour Act of 8 June 1972, known as the Major Act, is laid down in Article 2 of the Act, which lays down the scope of the Joint Committee. That KB speaks very clearly about all treatments of all goods, except oil, gases and fish, in the port areas. As far as history is concerned, there can be no misunderstanding about that. Whether it was appropriate to determine this in 1972 and whether the following royal decrees were wise is another matter, but historically it is not right. My colleague, Mrs Bastiaens, has said with this information that she may have allowed herself to go into the discussion, but that it is historically wrong. I know that you and your party are very sensitive to history and historical correctness. In connection with the letter of formal notice, some Members have asked for it. Once again, the notice of formal notice has been removed from the list at European level. It is, of course, important, and I would like to emphasise this, that we must implement what has been agreed. For example, with regard to shift composition, we must carry out what we, the social partners and myself, have transferred to Europe. For those who doubt the path taken, which has so far been successful with regard to the Major Act, I would like to refer to the current state of play in the Spanish ports, which have followed the Huts road. There have been strikes in all Spanish ports in recent weeks. Two weeks ago, there were three 24-hour strikes, with no work during the odd hours. According to estimates by the Spanish authorities, these strikes cost EUR 36 million. Last week the first of four 48-hour strikes started. 34 ships on those two days do not sail to Spanish ports but to Genoa, Marseille, Antwerp and Rotterdam. However, it is clear that employers and employees and the Spanish authorities will have to sit around the table again sooner or later. I hope that all those who doubted our path to solve this problem, with the Spanish example in mind, will say even more than in the past that they have chosen the right path and that, thank God, they have got out of it. I come to the problem of logistics. I have always said and implemented my commitment, that when the default notice is off the table, we are now addressing the problem of logistics in Zeebrugge, Ghent and Antwerp. If there were a problem, I would like to take up the port of Brussels. The first cautious contacts were made. Like you, Mr Klaps, we have received proposals from certain organisations. We have looked at this and, as with the letter of formal notice, I will look into how we will solve this important problem over the next few weeks and months. You say that you are counting on a solution and that you will follow up on my commitment in this matter. No problem at all. With the way in which we resolved the letter of formal notice, I assume that this approach will produce better results than the Spanish road, not to mention a second name that does not really matter here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which seems to correct your party mate. I also listen to what the honorable ships in Antwerp tell me. You say that she may have been tempted in the discussion to a statement that was not 100 % correct. She was very calm and simply read Mr Van Peel's reply. I can give you his number, if you don't have it, you can give him a call. You yourself ask yourself whether it was wise to make that choice at the time. I'm sure you'll be happy to answer that question. I certainly do not think it has been sensible and that we should resolve it. Looking at all the options will in practice mean moving away from geographical definitions and moving to work-related definitions. For the sake of clarity, should you doubt that we are pleased that social peace prevails in the port, I would like to confirm that. Of course we are happy with this, although the example of Spain is very confusual. After all, the regulation that the Spanish Government originally proposed was opposed to a condemnation of Europe, although fortunately but not condemned, raises a great many questions, including in Spain. Spain wonders why its original idea, unlike our arrangement, was not accepted by Europe. However, that is a discussion that would lead us too far now. We will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u72	Minister, I have the impression that you have answered only Mr Klaps' question. We agree that the European Commission has put an end to the procedure. After I put my question, I read in the press that you had worked in concert. As a result, a vote was taken and 85% of dockers voted for changes to this Major Act. I wanted to point out that when we work together, it's always more positive!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u73	Minister, if the fact that there are no strikes in a sector is the best way to know if people are doing well, then I fear that you will not do much in a country. I myself have had strikes against me, including on pension reform. They were terrible strikes, but we did it, and that was good, because we took a first step.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u74	(...) economic consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u75	Yes, there were also severe economic consequences back then. There have even been Prime Ministers in other countries who have endured severe strikes, after which it has been found that the reforms were absolutely necessary for the country. I have told you that the port labour dossier is good, but I am counting on the fact that when it comes to e-commerce, which I have clearly said is a completely different activity, common sense returns and the rules that are needed are applied. We count on your commitment and the successful outcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u76	Mr Minister, the EPSCO Council of 15 June 2017 would normally decide on the general approach to the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive. On the table was a compromise proposal, after 11 Member States had drawn a yellow card against the proposals for adaptation made by the Commission on 8 March 2016. In De Standaard of 12 June, however, we could read that an agreement on this matter is far away, after the French Government, supported by the German Government, has made a number of additional demands. I am thinking here of the limitation of the maximum duration to 12 months and of the legal anchoring that allowances for costs relating to secondment cannot be deducted from the remuneration due. It is striking that the proposals also open up the possibility of amending the coordination regulation, namely the requirement for the A1 document to be delivered prior to posting. We believe that the adjustments should go even further. We are thinking of a maximum period of six months. Furthermore, we believe that there is a need for substantial adjustments to the coordination regulation, such as greater participation by the host country, the legal validity of the A1 document delivered, the collection of the contribution in the country of employment, with the transfer of the proceeds to the country of employment and the participation of the country of employment in the nature of the employment relationship, which the A1 document mentions. But also with your coalition partners there are those who want to go much further. For example, I remember a press release of 5 December 2015 in De Tijd, in which a colleague from our committee even argued for a maximum of three months. What was the Belgian Government's attitude to the compromise proposal? In what areas do you think that the compromise proposal would actually improve the posting of workers to our country, given the maximalist transposition of the existing directive into the law of 5 March 2002 and the broad integration of the general declaration of binding sectoral collective agreements? Has our government used the French-German démarche to put additional demands on the table, which would really contribute to tackling social dumping? Can you explain more about our delegation's proposal to establish a European database, to which the Secretary of State referred in De Standaard of 15 June?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u77	Minister, you were able to reach an agreement with your fellow European Ministers for Employment on the revision of the European rules on posting. Those rules have been going on for two decades. We have all been able to see how the European context has changed in the meantime. The failure of the negotiations on the compromise proposal proposed by Commissioner Thyssen would be the result of additional demands put forward by the new French Government, to which Mr Kitir has just referred. For example, the French Government wants to limit the period of secondment to a maximum of 12 months, a proposal which can also count on German support. Minister, I have a very simple, concrete question. Do you support the Franco-German proposal to limit the period of secondment to 12 months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u78	Mr President, Mr Minister, this question of the revision of the Detachment of Workers Directive is essential in order to combat social dumping, while at the same time allowing for the mobility of workers. It was on the agenda of the EPSCO Council last Thursday in Luxembourg. I am not going back to what my colleagues have detailed. We know that we have not been able to reach an agreement on the subject. France has apparently arrived with quite offensive proposals, both interesting in substance but perhaps excluding the possibility of an agreement within the various countries because it is known that the countries benefiting from the secondment are hindering a reform. France, for its part, apparently supports Malta's proposals, which holds the presidency of the European Union until the end of June, to clarify that the costs of accommodation, food and transport are not included in the remuneration, in order to avoid the abusive practice of certain employers to deduct these expenses from the pay of their employees. There is also the proposal, if I have read it correctly, to limit the secondment to a maximum of one year. Still, there is no agreement. Minister, what is your report on this EPSCO meeting? It's better to hear you than the journalists. You were closer to the decision. What was the view of France and Germany regarding the limitation of detachment and better control of detachment? Do you confirm the situation of blockage? What is Belgium's position? Have you supported an ambitious position on this subject, even if it is in a mismatch with your party colleague, Mrs Thyssen? What is the continuation of the negotiation schedule? How does Belgium intend, through you, to contribute to an ambitious and positive solution, which would limit social dumping through the posting of workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u79	Mr President, I would first like to stress that this is a very important dossier for Belgium. We are in third place in Europe when it comes to receiving workers from other countries, about 156 000. I can provide you with that information if you like. These people are from Germany, France and so on. Some think they're all from Eastern European countries. So we are in third place. This is an untenable position, but I would also like to stress that we are in ninth place when it comes to sending Belgian workers to other countries in Europe, 82 000 in total. This means that we have to be careful in the discussion. The 156 000 is a large number. This is certainly a major problem in certain sectors, including in other sectors. However, we are also sending 82 000 workers to other countries in industry, services and so on. In the discussion in 24 months, 12 months, six months one should know very well that if people are sent abroad, they will receive benefits after six months in the country to which they have been sent, with corresponding consequences. So we must be very careful about this, but it is a very important problem for Belgium given our third place. Secondly, for the second and last time this afternoon, I would like to emphasise that everything in the media is not right away. I have contacted the new French Minister for Labour several times myself. The Minister is a very dynamic lady, who will do an awful lot of work over the next few weeks. At the beginning of September 2017, it must have a number of laws in place. It has put forward a number of things very moderately. Of course, she was also confronted with the second round of elections. You must take into account that there will also be elections in Germany in September 2017. You need to look at the larger picture if you want to understand certain positions correctly. The decoder that follows must be turned on. Having said that, it was indeed the Maltese Presidency's intention to reach a general approach to the EPSCO Council of 15 June on its compromise proposal on the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive. The Maltese Presidency had made a real commitment to this and worked very hard on the proposal. The present compromise proposal is the result of intensive negotiations between the representatives of the various Member States, which, as you know, have very different views on the subject. Although, of course, we did not respond to all our wishes, we believe that it would be better to reach a compromise in this dossier. Just so we're clear, I'd also prefer that was agreed in the government 12 months instead of 24 months. However, the mandate I received was that it would be wonderful if we could reach a compromise for 12 months. It was more important to move forward, rather than have nothing at all. In that case, we would be nowhere and there would be no progress in the matter. That compromise proposal has also been improved and clarified. Firstly, the compromise proposal provides for the replacement of the too restrictive concept of minimum wages in the hard core of applicable working conditions, as set out in the Directive, by the broader concept of wages and the extension of the broader concept of pay, secondly, by adding the conditions for collective housing and the interventions in the field of travel expenses, nutrition and residence for workers who are far away from home. For Belgians, this means consolidating the application of collective agreements imposing such conditions and interventions. Thirdly, the compromise proposal for long-term postings provides for the application of all legal provisions and collective agreements of general scope, with the exception of the procedures, formalities and conditions relating to the conclusion and termination of a contract of employment. The latter goes beyond the current law of 5 March 2002 on employment pay and conditions of employment in the case of posting of workers in Belgium and compliance with them, which, while imposing the application of the Belgian working conditions, only to the extent that they are sanctioned by criminal law. So we are taking very important steps forward in the compromise proposal. I went to Luxembourg, for example, to reduce the deadline of 24 months, but if there is a compromise on the basis of the Maltese Presidency's proposal, then perhaps we should go for it, if there is a majority for it. It was clear that France still had a number of elements. My feeling is that the 24-month deadline for France is not the most important. France has said that it wants clarity on the transport sector, on letterbox companies and on the control platform. There will therefore be further consideration of how this can be done. With Regulation No. We also need to pay close attention to 883. If we want to continue the debate in 24 months, 12 months or six months, we must not only pay attention to how many we send away, 82 000 or 156 000, but also recognise that there is a link between the 24-month period and Regulation No. 883. We must be careful not to go too far, to the detriment of our people working abroad. In October there will be a new EPSCO Council in Luxembourg. We have intervened because, as has been said, we want maximum progress in this matter. We have said that we would like to see the deadline if possible shorter. We want to do everything we can to make this dossier work. However, other countries intervened at that time. When a vote could not be taken, the Eastern European countries once again gave their opinion. I can assure you that there will still be a great deal of massage to achieve a compromise that will reach a majority in October at all. I hope you understand that the discussion in 24 or 12 months is a specific discussion that is important, but should also be placed in a broader context. Mrs. Kitir specifically asked about that database. Within the framework of Regulation 883/2004, our country has already made far-reaching proposals. This, of course, falls within the competence of the Minister for Social Affairs and the Secretary of State for Combating Fraud. In this context, reference has been made to the good example of the LIMOSA database by the Ambassador, who replaced the Secretary of State for the item on the progress report on the claim 883/2004. It follows that Secretary of State Philippe De Backer has continued to work to further expand that LIMOSA database. We are now under the presidency of Estonia. Everyone assumed that this new presidency could bring the matter to a successful conclusion in October. We have agreed with colleagues from France, Germany, Sweden and so on to see how we can get out in the next few weeks and months, before October. After Estonia, Bulgaria will take over the presidency and we can forget all about it. By this I mean that Bulgaria will never pull the cart, even though Malta did, and I hope that Estonia will. If it does not succeed, this means that we will no longer have to talk about adapting the Posting of Workers Directive in the next ten years. With the entry into force and the transitional periods, we have been at five years, if I am not mistaken, which is a long period. If it does not succeed in October, I fear for the social Europe that everyone wants to work on. In France, there is a lot of hope for Emmanuel Macron, who wants to make a heavy effort. We support him. However, at some point I prefer to have one bird in my hand, which will continue to fly for ten years, than ten in the air. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, so far there has been a state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. I understand your warning, because many workers from our country are being posted to other countries. That is not to say, Minister, that we must therefore adopt a passive attitude in the matter. A lot of jobs are lost here. I do not need to repeat my speech. We are all opposed to social dumping. It is not an easy problem that we cannot deal with only in our country. We need other countries to do that. I would therefore like to call on you to seek a compromise in the right direction before October, when Bulgaria will observe the European Presidency. Other countries, such as Germany and France, may be blamed for being in an election period, but I have always understood that your electoral promises are not empty promises and that you are fully committed to working them out. I therefore hope that Belgium will play a more active role in the dossier than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u81	Minister, we do not need to convince each other of the usefulness and value of the principle of posting. We all see that together. On the other hand, we all need to be vigilant about its possible negative effects. The aim of posting expertise and know-how to our country for a certain period of time is noble, necessary and useful for our country, which also sends its sons and daughters, but we cannot ignore the fact that today the system is often abused to bring workers here. Not because they have specific expertise and know-how, but because they are cheaper, they are significantly cheaper. That is why you are right to say that it is an important file. Meanwhile, everyone knows the numbers; they are what they are. I would like to make one comment, without getting into an endless discussion. Not every posted worker from the Netherlands, for example, is a Dutchman. That being said, it is a valuable principle, also for the sons and daughters we send ourselves. In that sense, we must continue to follow it up. I repeat Mr Kitir's plea. I also take note of the fact that you are in favour of significantly reducing the length of posting. You'll be speaking in 12 months. I think we'll find each other in that ambition. You are right to say that it must be done now. I also think that if we have to wait for Bulgaria, it will be ruined. Let us try to get a little more out of it, in addition to some of the good things contained in Mrs Thyssen's proposal. If we want to maintain our support for Europe, and this is a common ambition, then we really need to get something out of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u82	Mr Minister, there is, as in others at European level, an original fault in this matter. It is not obvious to correct it then, because a qualified majority is needed on the subject. Belgium should play a leading role. You are pointing out that we are also sending workers abroad. If we criticize the directive, it is not in order to prevent the mobility of workers, but the workers we send abroad are given strong social security, with social security payments. This is not the case for workers who come here to Belgium, since the rules of departure and the control mechanisms are not sufficient. That is where the problem lies. There is an incomprehension in the world of work, both among workers and among employers, which calls into question the validity of the directive, of Europe and of this mobility of workers. This is really problematic, and it affects our SMEs in particular. The resolution of the problem depends not only on us, but also a little. This depends on the political circumstances in the countries concerned. Is there an election deadline? Should we get muscled yes or no? Who presides over the Union: is it a beneficiary country or a country seeking solutions? We need to find these solutions. You have a somewhat privileged position to achieve this, since you are close to the Commissioner in charge of the matter – in any case more than I am. It's factual. I ask you to make every effort to reach an ambitious compromise on this subject, provided that there is still an opportunity to do so in the light of the forthcoming EU presidencies. I will continue to ask you about this, like my colleagues, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-20-54-commissie-ic691x.u83	We'll finish here. All questions are postponed until the next meeting, unless a conversion was requested to a written question, which is the case with question No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen (Commission); Mr Janssen Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Hedebouw's 18091, 19182 and 19405 were postponed for television. The rest of the questions will be postponed for lack of time. Thank you for coming, Minister.
