ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u1	Good morning, colleagues. It's our last meeting this year. It comes on a proposal from the Minister, which is very positive, because in this way the questions will not remain until mid-January.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u2	Madam President, my question dates from two months ago. Minister, during the national defilé for the Spanish national holiday on 12 October an accident occurred with a Spanish fighter aircraft of the type Eurofighter Typhoon. The accident occurred during the landing manoeuvre near Los Llanos Air Base, but the cause is still unknown. The pilot was killed in this. The Eurofighter Typhoon is one of the options to replace the Belgian F-16s. That is why I have a number of questions in this regard, Minister. Can you explain the cause of the accident? Has the British State Agency already been addressed by our country in the context of the ongoing procurement procedure for the new fighter aircraft about the cause of the accident? If it is a failure with the type Eurofighter Typhoon, can you confirm that the cause will be addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u3	Defence does not have Eurofighter Typhoons and is therefore not involved in the unfortunate accident. Nor have we received any information on the circumstances and cause of the tragic accident. I can tell you that the current purchase procedure for replacing the F-16s specifically asks for the history of accidents of the proposed devices, not only for the Eurofighter, but also for the aircraft types of the other providers. This includes a description of the causes of the accidents. It seems obvious to me that the causes are investigated by the producer and result in configuration changes, where necessary, to ensure flight safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Since the Eurofighter is a potential candidate for the replacement of the F-16s, it is important to know that the technical shortcomings are resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u5	Madam President, Minister, the 2016 General Policy Paper states that, in the field of the professional conversion of the military who leave Defence after a limited career, initiatives to promote a transition to the status of a federal official would be implemented through an adaptation of the regulatory texts. It goes without saying that this is an important project, both for the military and for society. A good career change gives people a better career perspective, which can also be used as an argument for recruitment. Is it possible to explain the state of play of the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u6	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I also have a question on the subject. Through external mobility, military can move to a career with a public employer. That could be another federal government, a city, a police zone, a relief zone or a fire department. In 2018, the contract BDL, which is the short-term commitment of eight years, ends in principle. They are military personnel who, if they do not renew their contract with the Defense Department, end up on the labour market. The answer to my written question of 7 November 2017 shows that in 2017 only two military personnel made the transition to a public office through external mobility. I have a few questions about that. Minister, external mobility is an inherited problem. You inherited it from Minister De Crem, who in turn inherited it from Minister Flahaut, who in turn undoubtedly inherited it again. Can you explain the reasons why external mobility is difficult? Furthermore, in an answer to another written question on the subject of external mobility, you indicate that France and Germany are making the reservation of public jobs. In France, this can be done after four or ten years of service on the basis of the level. In Germany, the measure refers to military personnel with a temporary status after 12 years of service. Do you see that as a possible solution for us? Is there any thought in that direction? Finally, you are also putting forward a new possible solution, namely outplacement. An external partner would in principle be called upon for outplacement. The first sessions would start in 2018. What is the status of the outplacement contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u7	Mrs. Jadin is not here. Her question No. 22573 therefore lapses. After all, she didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u8	Madam President, Mr Bogaert, the Royal Decree of 12 June 2006 regulating the acquisition by the military of the status of a State official by transfer was recently amended by me in order to extend the scope for the internal mobility of federal officials to Defence. The legal framework to make this possible requires further amendment of the Act of 28 February 2007 establishing the status of the military and candidate military in the active framework of the Armed Forces. The amendment of that law is currently under discussion in the Inter-Kabinette Working Group to be submitted to the Council of Ministers shortly. Professional soldiers, including the "military limited duration," already have the opportunity, under certain conditions and by means of a transfer, to acquire the status of a federal official in another department. A bill was also drawn up to allow the military BDL to enjoy a personalised vocational change programme from the beginning of the 87th month after the recruitment. This bill is currently before the Ministry of Defence's Ministry of Finance for advice. The outplacement contract to offer the possibility of outplacement to professional soldiers with more than twenty years of actual service and to military BDL end contract will enter into force in 2018. We call on a specialised agency to do so. Countries such as France and Germany are doing the same. Apart from the "CALog Police Zones" project, there is currently no other concrete project ongoing from active transfer to public services in 2017. The examples of external mobility in other countries are, of course, specific to the countries concerned. Reserved places for military personnel in public services is an option that will to some extent already be applied in the Federal Police Directorate Security project. The rules provide that the military are given priority and certain selection tests are exempted under certain conditions. It is considered that ex-military personnel have the necessary competences. To make this possible in other government officials, this regulation should also include specific provisions for military personnel. However, this is not always considered appropriate because it is necessary to be able to verify that the candidate has the necessary competences. Allow me to say that, as Minister of Defence, I would of course be delighted if certain services were reserved for outgoing military personnel. However, I do not always have the same positive echoes. As regards the outplacement, the competing firms received a notification with the decision. However, the official award will take place after the allocation of the necessary budgets for 2018. The allocation shall be made in January. It is therefore assumed that the information sessions will be launched effectively by the end of February 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u9	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his expert answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that we should continue to focus on external mobility through targeted recruitment. I can tell by the figures that there are peaks, although small peaks, when one recruits very targeted, for example with the police. Also the outplacement you propose is definitely positive and worth a try. However, I fear that external mobility and outplacement will continue to be fantastic dreams if we only change the legislative framework and therefore only change the laws, agreements and collective agreements. In fact, there's little that Defence can do about that. A whole change of mentality is needed, almost a change of culture. I think that is what you meant when you said that it is specific to certain countries that external mobility does work there, such as in the United States, France and the Netherlands, where the public and private sectors really are open to it. I think that's what you mean by the positive echo you'd like to get. That's a very difficult process. In some countries, such as France, the Netherlands and the United States, there is a military mark for an application. That is why it is very important that we work intensively with companies and that we inform companies properly. In the Netherlands, for example, it has already been well understood that someone with a career in Defense can really be an added value in the company, for example because those people have learned to deal with stressful situations, because they can manage but also simply get their leadership, and because they can also think about solutions. In this way, there can be a very good flow to the public and private sector, so that the BDL Statute, a good statute, can get real added value. If there is sufficient influx, we will achieve our goal, namely a younger and fitter army. However, I am well aware that it is very easy to say that here, but in practice this is not so easy to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u11	Minister, infrastructure policy within the Ministry of Defence focuses on the most necessary maintenance and renovation work. Defence wants to take advantage of these works to make the heritage more rational and energy efficient, while maintaining sufficient comfort for the staff. It goes without saying that making the buildings more energy efficient can help to safeguard life on this planet. What is the average score of the Defence Buildings on the Energy Performance Certificate today? Does every building have an energy performance certificate? What score do you want to achieve in one or two years? And which in three to four years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u12	Mr Bogaert, the drawing up of an EPB certificate is required for new buildings and for buildings intended for rental or sale. Defense has such certificates drawn up today only in the case of new construction or alienation of a property. There are currently no EPB certificates for all existing buildings. Therefore, no average EPB score can be given for the Defence Patrimony. The European Directive 2010/31/EU of 19 May 2010 imposes the drawing up and hanging of an EPB certificate for public buildings used by public authorities and to which the public has regular access. However, the European Directive 2012/27/EU of 25 October 2012 allows Member States not to apply the Directive 2010/31/EU to buildings of armed forces, with the exception of individual accommodation or office buildings intended for defence personnel. For these two categories, Defence has started to draw up and implement the EPB certificates. This is a fairly defensive response, Mr Bogaert, and our ambition is higher. But the fact is that the delay in...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u13	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u14	It does express that we are doing what we have to do. Today, perhaps, there is little ambition in this regard. In the case of new construction or major renovation of the infrastructure, we do apply the legislation that will be applicable on the date of publication of the public contract. The evolution of this legislation is such that by 2020 we will be looking for near zero-energy buildings for new buildings or major renovations of buildings. However, our ambition does not stop there. We have a continuous programme for better insulation of our buildings, where it is needed. It makes little sense, for example, to apply a lot of insulation in an open hall. Other projects are also being launched on energy efficiency and even energy generation. The delay is such that next year we specifically reserved EUR 9.7 million for what has been overlooked for a long time. I call that today the plumbing plan, but it will get a better name. In any case, the normal living conditions of our people in the barracks must at least reach a level acceptable in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u15	Minister, I suspect that the situation is not good, but I do not doubt the good faith to put that right. With my question, however, I wanted to find out earlier how bad it really is. That's why I asked for the average score. Measuring is knowing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u16	Mr Bogaert, on the score, we are currently drawing up EPB certificates for the buildings for which this is laid down by law, in particular accommodation buildings and office buildings. Other buildings will follow later and we must, of course, also have ambition for these buildings. However, I cannot give you any specific figures today, because the process of these certificates is still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u17	Minister, allow me to add that it is only now in progress. Housing has been subject to such certificates for a long time and homes may not be sold without EPC certificate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u18	Mr Bogaert, that's right. However, you know that we have a lot of buildings. There's a lot of discussion here about quarters and barracks. That work wasn't done from today to tomorrow. I am in favour of a pragmatic approach. I would like a building to be renovated first, after which a decent EPB certificate can be delivered. That is what we are doing. I can ask that you be informed of the provisional average. This will be more on the high side, because that average will be based mainly on figures from recent buildings, new buildings or newly renovated buildings. The other certificates are then drawn up, but in view of their number, this is a difficult matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u19	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u20	Madam President, Minister, this is actually a question that was raised in part during the budget debate. Following the NATO summit in Brussels in May 2017, the government decided to increase the budget for Defence by 0.01 %. This corresponds to around 391 million euros between 2017 and 2019. The aim is to keep the budget for Defence at 0.92 % until 2019 and not to decrease further, as set out in the strategic vision. Is it already clear to you that these budgetary resources have been raised? What budget increase is due in what year? What exactly will the additional resources be spent on? Are these investments, operating costs or personnel costs? What part of the interdepartmental investment commission can Defense charge for the debt repayment? In the meantime, I've got a piece of the answer. I understand that in this percentage calculation of GDP there are also pension liabilities. Of course, I'm looking at the naked part, the specific part that can be spent by the Defense Department. That's what my question is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u21	Madam President, Mr Bogaert, the NATO standard is based on defence expenditure in terms of percentage of GDP. Defence expenditure, as you yourself have said, is more than just the budget of the Department of Defence. In addition, pension costs for ex-military and ex-promised guards, as well as a series of expenses incurred by other departments, are added. Together they account for around 1.5 billion in 2018. That is on top of our effective budget. In a first phase, the government has decided to keep the budget of the Department of Defence stable for 2018 and 2019 and not to apply any more savings to it, as initially decided in October 2014, at the beginning of the legislature. That means 46 million for 2018 and 44 million for 2019. This decision allows initially to keep the level of expenditure on operations constant over these two years. If we had to make that saving, it would not have been possible, as you know. I explained that in a previous meeting. We always rely on our contributions. However, NATO assumes three factors: cash, contribution and capacity. As far as contribution is concerned, we score fairly well; we are active. However, we are lagging behind in terms of capacity and cash. That's what it's really about. If we want to keep the contribution factor high at the very least, we are going to spend our resources on it in the first place. In addition, this will also allow the stockpiling of ammunition to be brought up to level, which has been very heavily saved during the past legislatures. A third major item of expenditure to be financed will be the purchase of radio equipment to enable the creation of a multinational Special Forces command. Finally, the appropriations will be increased in order to allow for a higher number of voluntary encabling performances and to increase recruitment. So, we recruit more and give more people the chance to contribute even after the statutory retirement age, in order to retain a competence. During this legislative period, Defence was able to rely on the interdepartmental investment commission of EUR 100 million for the debt repayment of past debts each year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u23	Minister, a few months ago, an internal investigation was carried out at the Ministry of Defence on the satisfaction of staff. This shows that soldiers feel unappreciated and doubt the organisation because they think that Defence does not carry out its tasks properly or even does not carry out the right tasks. In addition, military young people would advise against becoming military. There is also great uncertainty about their future and dissatisfaction about internal and external communication. It is striking that the results are more negative than they were two years ago. The report clearly warns that the results are due to a lack of political choices, in particular the lack of decisions on which barracks close and which do not. Mr Minister, could you explain this report a little? What interpretation do you give of the poor results regarding the satisfaction of the staff? In view of the fact that an important stumbling block for the military is the absence of decisions on which barracks close or not, will you take steps? What measures will you take to restore the satisfaction of defence personnel? What are the most recent figures on attrition among candidates and soldiers in the first years after the candidacy? Finally, the upcoming retirement wave will have to be met with additional recruitments, as the Minister's strategic vision also reflects. Do you envisage additional measures to attract young people to the occupation of military?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u24	Mr. Secretary, an internal investigation at Defense shows that the military are anything but happy with their job. The majority of the military would even advise young people to start working for the Defense Department. That is, of course, at risk of weighing up your recruitment targets for next year and that is very unfortunate. The military are concerned about their career and pension, about which there is a great deal of uncertainty. I have even been able to find unclear among Members of this House about the retirement age for soldiers. What happens after the end of a limited career? The organisation raises questions of efficiency and whether the right tasks are being carried out. After more than two years of operation Vigilant Guardian, that's an understandable sigh. Operationality, preparedness and training levels continue to decline. Uncertainty is also created by the lack of political decision-making. The strategic plan had a lot of feet in the earth. Decisions have to be made in the barracks plan, in the pension file, in the file on fighter aircraft and so on. Mr President, how can you say that the perceived dissatisfaction is a problem of internal communication? Discontent has increased in the last two years, so during your reign. What will you do to make the military career clear and attractive? How will you achieve the recruitment target of 1,500 men in 2018? When can you provide the military with security regarding their pensions, the barracks plan and a return to the core tasks of Defense? I would also like to receive a copy of the research report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u25	Minister, I have a question in the same sentence. The previous two speakers have already given an introduction and indicated that this is about internal research, so I shall confine myself to my questions. Mr Minister, can that investigation be delivered to the members of our committee? What steps can the DOD take to meet all the doubts of the staff, as mentioned by colleagues? You say that investment is the solution to many of the problems, but this government is transferring the bill to the next governments. As far as barracks are concerned, for example, the government does not show political courage. Do you understand that this creates uncertainties for the military personnel? You're counting on DOD to rejuvenate thanks to new recruitments. At the same time, it turns out that more than half of the military personnel would not start again with Defence and would advise others not to become military. As an image damage, I think that's huge. Do you really think that all the vacancies can be filled, especially now that some of the staff can or would like to move on to the new security force? Fifthly, almost four out of ten military personnel have doubts as to whether the DOD is still performing its duties properly. This is a confrontational figure. Does research also indicate why soldiers have that feeling? Finally, what steps will the Defence Department take in relation to internal and external communication?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u26	Madam Chair, Minister, I would also like to ask you about the results of the identity survey of Defence personnel. On the basis of this report, it can be concluded that the general opinion of the military towards their organization is, unfortunately, rather negative. For example, three out of four staff felt that Defence was not a reliable employer; one in three said they were totally dissatisfied with the army as an employer. The main reasons given are continuing uncertainty about employment and prospects for the future. Minister, the results of the investigation were sent by the research office to the Defence Staff in July 2017. Four months later, they had not yet been communicated to staff, despite the explicit commitment of the Chief of Defence. Can you explain to me the reasons for this delay? Why are the results so bad? Has this affected their non-disclosure? Only one in three staff believe that management is good: soldiers do not feel supported by their leaders. On the other hand, there is mistrust of the leaders. There is therefore a clear leadership problem. How do you intend to remedy this? Defence internal and external communications have proven to be poor. How do you intend to address this problem? The daily working environment is considered "inadequate". This concerns issues such as lack of infrastructure, unattractive career prospects and insufficient opportunities for promotion. What action plans are envisaged in these areas? The military clearly indicates that they lack information about their future. How do you intend to address this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u27	First of all, I'd like to point out what an internal investigation means. For years it has been said that HR policy is being closed and that there are many complaints. I really didn't need an investigation to know that there are complaints to the DOD here and there. I really didn't need that. It is clear that, over the last 30 years, the Defense Department has been the victim of disinvestment over and over again. It seems obvious to me that this makes itself felt on the floor. If, for the first time, Defence is being assisted by an external agency to deal with matters in a management-technical, responsible manner, then I do not think it is right to say that it is all bad on the basis of general plagiarities that are found in a rather extensive investigation. I challenge you all to ask anyone on the street if they would recommend their children to do the same job. Look into your own heart. Do you recommend your children to step into politics? I don't. Ask your GP if he would recommend his son or daughter to become a GP. I don't think so. Ask someone at Ford's band at the time or today at Volvo in Ghent if he would recommend his son or daughter to join the band, then the answer will most likely be no. People seem to find it quite pleasurable to play political games with all those who are concerned about the well-being of our people in the Defense Department. Well, I'm not going along with that. If there is dissatisfaction with many soldiers today, it is because they find that years of savings have been saved and that this is constantly being stirred up politically. The decisions to stop saving, investing and increasing recruitment are an important turning point. At the same time, I read in the media that there are parties, including those of the questioners, who say that there is no doubt that more can be saved in the defence sector. If money is to be sought, I look at the Members of Parliament who say that in plenary for the micro. The measures taken must ensure that we can move towards a better equipped and more modern army, which will benefit morale. We will also provide investments to increase the well-being of our staff. I have already indicated in my previous reply that we have worked very hard on the personal equipment of the military and that we are today committed to improving living conditions. We shall take further steps in this regard. The fact that that message does not reach the individual military, I can very well form a picture of that. After all, we are just complaining, we like complaining. Defence needs to place greater emphasis on strategic communication and internal communication. It is also clear that the effect of the above measures is not immediately felt on the ground, especially when it comes to investment and recruitment. As far as promotion is concerned, you know, as I do, that foreclosure has been abrogated. Please be aware that every year the number of places open for social promotion increases substantially. These places rose from 146 in 2014 to 243 in 2018. In order to meet our recruitment objectives, Defence is making additional efforts in the field of communication. Defense also continues to organise job days or reconnaissance days so that young people get to know Defense. The research itself, which is a management document, has already been used in launching the new recruitment campaign for next year. You can also determine this yourself through the presence on social media and the different types of videos used. In addition, internal communication was improved, for example by a letter from the Chief of Defense and myself to the individual military before the start of Christmas leave. In 2017, as I said, Defence called on a research agency and a specialised communication agency to optimally tailor recruitment campaigns to target groups. On 31 October 2017, a Ladies At Defence Day was organised specifically for women. Social media also play an important role in this and must be played with it. Attrition for this year is about 7%. By continuously working on and progressing in the formation, improving the framework during the formation and providing better information to the candidate military, the Defence Department wants to keep the attrition under control. As regards the uncertainty surrounding the barracks, as I mentioned earlier, there will be no closure of barracks during the current legislature, except for the execution of decisions taken during the previous legislature. With regard to the issue of pensions, we are working in close cooperation with the Minister of Pensions' cabinet on the implementation of the transitional measures. Once that project has been completed, I am convinced that we will be able to make an offer that everyone can live with and which at the same time responds to the general social and social demand to keep pensions affordable in the future and to all contribute a little longer to the composition of the pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u28	Minister, I have a few reservations. First and foremost, it is true that there has been little investment in Defense over the past 30 years. The historical reasons for this are what they are, but of course the individual feeling in the military is very significant and can count as a signal. I also read in the press that 72% of the military did not reply to the survey. That is an individual choice, they are not obliged to do so, but it does want to say something about openness if people do not need to cooperate. I'll take that. It is an important observation that people do not openly express their feelings about a future in the Defense Department. Only 18% replied to the survey. I'll write that down.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u29	Twenty-eight percent have replied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u30	An important observation is also that it would have to do with the fact that no political choices are made and there will be no solutions. The CHOD confirms this, too. If the CHOD confirms this, then this is a message for all of us, because in the end we are all involved. This is therefore a firm statement. Is this correct, Minister? How do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u31	Mr Yüksel, you are making an important point. These are things that don't always come out in public. 28 % replied, 72 % did not. You know as well as I do that those who want to complain seize such moments. Those who are just satisfied usually keep quiet. Everyone who campaign knows that there are a few very strong supporters, many opponents, and that there is a very large silent crowd. In that light, the number of responses received should be seen. The test was done on the computer and not every soldier has access to a computer every day. It also happened on a voluntary basis. In other words, there was no obligation to participate. A third of them took a good look and expressed what they were all disappointed with. This is important in itself. If the CHOD indicates that they feel this way, then so is it. It is also the reason why this study was carried out. We can all continue to say that it is all bad, when there are real improvements. We're all here together. Our government is working on a clear investment plan that offers prospects for the future. However, we must communicate this to the individual military. That is why, for the first time, the Defense Department has been assisted by a professional agency to investigate how this is best dealt with. Of course, if we all believe that any investigation should be made public to everyone rather than management taking action and communicating in a different way with both staff and external target groups, then the matter is completely deadlocked. If we asked the Procter & Gambles of this world to give all market research on the basis of which they set their strategy, we would be far from home. There's no point in that either. The proof of the pudding is in the eating . Therefore, I declare that we will have to meet our recruitment targets in 2017. We'll get them, too. We have great ambitions for 2018 and the following years, and we will also have to live up to them. As I have already mentioned, on the day when the union felt it necessary to throw those points on the street as such, we have also reported that it will never work if we all continue to say that everything is bad. But then we will have been right, and the only thing we will have achieved in that case is that we will have brought a self-fulfilling prophecy to the truth. If that's what people want, then let's do it. That is not my choice in my capacity as Secretary of Defense. I want a department that is moving forward and that itself knows that it can move forward again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u32	I would ask you, Minister, to take the report very seriously. I'm sticking to my question to get a copy of the report. We are MEPs on the National Defence Committee. If an internal investigation is conducted within the Defense Department, it is only logical that we should be able to look at the results of the investigation. That would be a sign of transparency within the Defense Department. You always call for transparency. Well, you now have the opportunity to prove your words. There are effectively a number of serious yards in your department, which remain unsolved or which are poorly managed, such as the barracks plan, which you state will not be closed during the current legislature. However, the decision to close can be taken from 2020, in two years' time. That's creating uncertainty for people. The government is nestling in Operation Vigilant Guardian. It does not seem to want to end the operation anymore, while we stress that the military in question should be taken off the streets and replaced by policemen. That must still be the objective. We cannot do that from today to tomorrow, but we still have to strive for it. After all, the operation undermines the expertise building of the military itself, which is also indicated by the military themselves. They point out that they lose training, for example to participate in foreign contracts. Finally, there is a point about pensions. The military job isn't one like another. As far as we are concerned, the increase in retirement age, which is generally valid, cannot apply to military workers. We have always been very clear about this. This also plays a part in the report and in the uncertainty of the people at the workplace in the barracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u33	Mr De Vriendt, I would like to hear you say that we need to be phased out. I want to cut it down, too, and we did. Today we are at a level that is sustainable for us. The Landcomponent Commander has communicated about it himself, this is sustainable for us. We can continue and maintain that. I'm fighting against losing things because of this assignment. One also learns things, one is active in group, among others in an urban environment. We are all saying that this is the future of defence. In this context, young officers and petty officers today have the opportunity to deal with very specific organizational problems in the security of a city. They have been able to adapt procedures. We have worked hard on this, and we are now operating as soldiers do. You'd normally have to establish that in the street. I have one more question. You say that the OVG's own soldiers say it's all bad. Well, do you know how many people participating in the OVG have responded to the survey? Do you know that? I don't know, but I don't think you know either. So it's always paying attention when you talk about "the military." Once again, if the media could have found someone on the street complaining, they would have spread it long and wide. However, they did not find him or her. After all, the military and Jan Audience today know what Defence means to our country, that they are indeed the burden resort. Finally, there is still a level of terrorism 3. You can't say much, but we still have terror level 3. In an ideal world, soldiers should not be forced out and the police can handle it. However, will we then dimension the whole of the police according to the assumption that we are going to sit with threat level 3 forever? That would actually mean that the police would be overdimensioned with a thousand men. They're gonna say we have a police state. So that's not true. There's gonna be a General Security Directorate. People are recruited to the police. Many measures are being taken, but it is a fact that one cannot dimension on the basis of a crisis situation. Perhaps it is in your vision to dimension on the basis of a crisis situation. We do not agree on this, but I do not think it would be wise. If we can finally switch from level 3 to a lower level tomorrow, the military will go home anyway. What would you do with them, in case they were police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but it does not satisfy me. First of all, I would ask you to have the members of this committee look at the results of the survey. I am not just asking this question as a member of this committee. I give you a very specific example from HR, which you should know as Minister for Civil Service Affairs. If a satisfaction survey is to be carried out as an employer, a number of conditions must be attached to it in order to ensure that this result is achieved. After all, an expectation pattern is created. Firstly, a member of staff expects to know the outcome of what he has completed; he wants to know whether his colleagues are of the same opinion and whether this is the general pattern of the reply. Secondly, a staff member, as well as the group that completed it, expects something to be done about the results. If we do not make it known, we are not going to do anything about it. Thirdly, I would like to point out that your example that as a politician you would not advise your children to do politics, or as a doctor not to become a doctor, means to minimize your own questioning. I think the questioning is a good thing. If she happened externally, that's fine, but take them seriously as well. Be as open as possible, do something with the results, but not fractional. You have given a number of examples and said that 28 % filled in the survey, according to you only those with a negative attitude. Well, I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u35	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u36	Yes, you said that that 72 percent of the staff are satisfied with the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u37	Mr Top, you need to learn to keep trying to twist my words.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u38	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u39	Yes, I do. I have said that those who complain have let themselves go well. That's what I'm establishing. I have also said that this survey is being taken very seriously by us, that we are going to take action. I've invited you to see how the Defense Department is presenting itself to potential candidates today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u40	Once again, you say that those 28 % soldiers who filled out the survey are complainants who have let go.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u41	That's right...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u42	So you don't take these soldiers seriously. That's the result of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u43	Mr Top, that is malice. I say that there are complainants who have let themselves go. That's a fact. I'll stand behind that statement. I invite you to read on Facebook what is being said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u44	Then be critical about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u45	Suppose the municipal staff of your municipality would speak of the mayor without any knowledge of the matter. How long would you last? I'd like to see that. The claim that I am not taking the survey seriously is not correct. It's a policy document. On that basis, a policy has been developed. That story will be rolled out. As an example, I have explained how we present ourselves to candidates. I also mentioned how we communicate internally as an example. I can give you some examples. You blame me for not sharing what was being investigated. Apart from the political game you're playing here, you might as well ask yourself what the military have to do with it. The military want to have perspective again. The military also demand security. Well, I've given you certainty: I don't close barracks. One can keep telling stories about how bad things are going to be, but then we won't get there. That's probably what you want with your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u46	Here we are again. Thanks a lot! Mr. Secretary, you always keep the same line. Either it is the opposition's fault, or it is the 28% military who set a bad example with their answers. I see you're not taking it seriously. You argue in your reply that you are doing so much better in this legislature. I don't think that's gonna work for me. After all, you postpone all personnel-related decisions. My colleagues have already given examples. It is about the barracks, about the pension debate and about the presence of soldiers on the streets. All these things are of interest to the military. If you say that things are going to be so much better, you are talking about big investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u47	Ask an individual military what are personal...(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u48	Can't you ever let someone finish? At least let someone finish. Politeness can also be taught. You quote the same thing over and over again. Your investments will be planned in the following legislative hours. You say that will provide the solution. Tell me how these big investments will help the military with all the questions they're asking today about their job? Nothing. You have no support for these investments in the future today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u49	Minister, this report is not trivial. He's worrying. We are talking about 28%, or more or less 10,000 military personnel, which is an important figure. This shows some unease in our army and we need to pay attention to it. You say you didn't wait for the investigation to find out. Then why didn't you start a series of things to fix it? You are somewhat blamed on previous governments, but certain measures taken by this government have certainly not facilitated the lives of our military, including BDL status, pension reform and uncertainty about the closure of barracks. It can therefore be understood that there is concern in the head of the military and their families. Under this government, for the first time, we had a demonstration of the military on the street!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u50	I remember an even more important event! The person in charge at the time now has new ideas on defence but at the same time tries to hide the budgetary disaster from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation! At the time, there had been a demonstration with bowls!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u51	Minister, I encourage you to put in place a strategic vision for human resources! Madam President, like other parliamentarians, I ask that we have access to this report. It would also be interesting if we could audition the unions. I would also like us in this committee to follow up on the measures that have been taken in order to be able to respond to the concerns expressed by our military in this report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u52	Madam President, Minister, in recent weeks conflicting reports from the Dutch defence summit have created uncertainty about the replacement of M-frigates and mine hunters. In the first major interview of the new Secretary of Defense, with De Telegraaf, the question arose as to whether Defense could replace the mine hunters, submarines and M-frigates. The Minister's answer was, "All of them probably won't be able to do that." What is the current state of affairs? Has there been any consultation with the new Dutch minister and have agreements been reached on the replacement of the frigates and mine hunters, which is included in your strategic vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u53	Madam President, Minister, the Belgian navy's mine hunters and frigates are at the end of their lives and must be replaced. You have planned an overall amount of almost €2 billion of investment, some in cooperation with the Netherlands, in order to order these naval vessels of the utmost importance for the Belgian navy. Minister, such amounts are always conditional on returns on investment for Belgian industry and employment. What is the status of the negotiations now? What are the possible synergies with the Dutch industry on this issue? What about the maintenance of these vessels during their lifespan? Under the F-16 contract when they are purchased, we are talking about the overall benefits to our industry of almost 145%. Do you think such a return on investment is possible with this ship order? In the event of such a renewal of the ships, each euro invested by Defence would largely report its start. Do you have similar investment plans in other areas of Defence? Are these purchases also part of a common defence with our European partners, beyond our Dutch neighbours?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Belgian Defence Staff has, of course, regular contacts with its Dutch colleagues in the context of the ongoing projects to replace the current frigates and mine-fighting vessels. To date, there are no indications of problems with these projects. For the first time, I met Minister Bijleveld briefly on 16 November in the margins of the NATO Council. We had a next meeting on 30 November in The Hague. It is relevant to mention that the Netherlands also has a Secretary of State for Defence, which is specifically responsible for the acquisition of equipment. State Secretary Visser was also present at our meeting on 30 November. At that meeting I did not hear that the Netherlands doubts one of the projects. I would also like to mention, Mr Top, that our projects run until 2030. When Mrs Bijleveld was interviewed, she was probably talking about her term of office. As reflected in the government agreement as well as in the 2016 Strategic Vision, hardware investment programmes are a source of positive incentives and returns for society, both in the field of knowledge, technology and employment, in compliance with national and European regulations. To this end, structural coordination has been established between the Ministry of Defence on the one hand and the SPF Economy and the corresponding Dutch services on the other. It was agreed that the Netherlands would take over the purchase of Belgian and Dutch frigates. Belgium, for its part, will take over the purchase of mine hunters for our two countries. Contracts have not yet started, but it is clear that, as with all contracts, the SPF Economy sees how Belgian industry can play a role within the limits of legislation. European legislation on public procurement makes it necessary for maintenance to be carried out in close proximity to the base of operations. That is what we intend to ask. Given the use of vessels for 35 to 40 years, it is likely that the maintenance part is larger than the construction part. The distribution of the two markets in both countries is based on Benelux agreements. There is no sign of doubting the continuity of the project. A joint project of two countries is already exceptional and clearly shows the will to work for a European defence. If other countries want to join, they are welcome but it is preferable that the market uniting Belgium and the Netherlands should start in order to increase the continuity of operational capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u55	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I will probably continue to ask questions on this subject...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u56	And about others, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u57	...for as long as there is a lot of doubt in the coverage in the Dutch press about this. Let me give you an example. Recently, the Dutch press reported that there would be talk of replacing the fleet or the newly built ships with one type of vessel that would become more of a destroyer than we want, namely the frigate. Of course, this has consequences for their employability and use, as well as for our own infrastructure, which needs to be adapted, and for our own vision. As long as there is that doubt and as long as there are no clear agreements on paper, that doubt will remain. You also said that the Minister replied for her term of office, but it is about a plan until 2030. I think I know that the replacement will have to be carried out sooner. The end date is 2030. Making the appointment and the order will also have to be done much earlier. That is why it is important that Belgium insists on reaching good agreements with our northern neighbours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u58	For your information, Mr Top, I have always indicated that we need to see how we can coordinate our budgets and decision criteria if we are to work together. This is a matter of cooperation with two countries. It is not yet European cooperation. I also said in the explanatory memorandum of my policy paper that it is our ambition to have a comprehensive MoU in 2018, which should then give legal certainty to the continuation of the project. As far as your comments on the destroyer are concerned, the Netherlands, too, is now, of course, faced with a substantial increase in the budget. It may be that people, mostly people outside of DOD, start dreaming great. I believe that the purely financial reality will quickly bring dreamers back to that platform, which is actually the smallest platform that can handle the three threats, under the sea, at sea and from the air.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u59	Madam Chair, I would like to thank the Minister for his response. My attitude remains mixed. He is happy not to favour a national market, thus advocating everyone for himself. If we want more Europe, we must follow your lead and welcome it. But I have a small reserve and maybe the Dutch think like we do. We can subodor that they will tend to favour Dutch companies, but what reassures me is that we now have European public procurement rules that will allow an objectivation. If we want to build a European defence, we need a standardisation of our equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u60	Mr. Demon didn't say anything. His question No. 22169 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u61	Minister, my question is brief, and I hope your answer will be clear. Our bill on the political rights of military personnel was adopted on 9 November. Meanwhile, the law was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 28 November. I would therefore like to hear from you how the military leadership will communicate to the military in a clear and objective manner the consequences of this new legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u62	Mr Buysrogge, the extension of the political rights of the military of the active framework was communicated to the staff through news@defence, on the internal network of Defence. I quote: 'The Chamber of Representatives has adopted a change concerning the political rights of the military in the active framework. To repeat: the military may apply for all executive and non-executive functions at the municipal and provincial level. They may also apply to the District Councils. The military who exercises one of the abovementioned mandates, like any public official of the State and under the same conditions, may enjoy, as the case may be, service exemptions and optional political leave, both half-time and full-time. The number of days depends on the function and, where appropriate, the size of the municipality. For the most important functions, the military is placed on political leave. It is recalled that the military of the active framework should not stand for election at European, federal, regional or Community level and that he should always make known his intention to stand for election by means of a registered letter to the Minister of Defence." The communication via news@defence has also provided a summary table of the number of days of duty exemption and leave per month that a mandator could obtain. So I think the DOD's internal communications service did what he had to do to make these additional possibilities clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u63	Minister, it is good that the ball is played briefly and that all the military have unambiguous and objective information. I also know that certain units and certain leadership positions in the Defense Department do not really have a great appetite for signing up to or using that legislation. However, it is important that all rights for the military are correctly defined. They should not be encouraged to use them, but it is important in the informal contacts that the military concerned has if he would like to make such an application or consider using it, that he is not advised. That is important, and we must keep that in mind. In addition to that objective communication, that general communication, and I think it is right, the information must be properly communicated to the military concerned in the subsequent contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u64	Mr Minister, you said in the discussions on your general policy note, in particular to my colleague Daniel Senesael, that there were eight decisions to grant a compensation pension for victims of terrorist attacks, one of which was dealt with entirely at the administrative level and which was granted. You also stated that the granting of this compensation pension required an expert report from the medical committee, which must have sufficient time to do so. This status of victims of terrorist acts gives the victim the status of being a victim of war. A few weeks ago, we learned in the press that the victims had received a letter stating that they were recognized as such but that no amount was mentioned. According to a criminal lawyer, the determination of the costs of care and the amount of the pension still have to be the subject of a royal decree which will decide on an amount. However, it seemed to us that these amounts were fixed in law, by analogy with the other victims already covered by the law. Minister, what about it? Do you have to pass a royal decree determining the amounts or do the victims have to take into account the amounts fixed by law? If a royal decree is to be taken, when can we hope it is? Finally, in practical terms, is everything ready at the level of administrative payment procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u65	Mr Frédéric, a distinction must be made between the granting of national recognition status and the granting of a compensation pension. Currently, I have signed 323 national recognition status decisions. These decisions have been notified to the victims of the terrorist acts concerned. In concrete terms, the status of national recognition means for the direct victim, that is, the victim who was present at the scene of acts of terrorism, that he or she may benefit from reimbursement of the medical care required by the harmful event. For the indirect victim, i.e. any person allied with the direct victim up to and including the second degree, this means that he or she may be reimbursed for the psychological care associated with the act of terrorism. The status of national solidarity does not entail any further financial compensation. In addition, the Act of 18 July 2017 allows financial intervention in the form of a compensation pension for direct victims and survivors of a deceased victim. The compensation pension is linked to a disability or disability due to the act of terrorism. The compensation pension requires a minimum invalidity rate of 10%. In order for it to be granted, victims must first be subject to the expertise of the forensic office. On the basis of the report of this expertise, a pension amount is granted. The law of 18 July 2017 specifies that the scales applied are the same as those granted to civilian victims, in accordance with the law of 15 March 1954 on compensation pensions for civilian victims of the war 1940-1945 and their successors. The rates set out in Article 6bis of the 1954 Act and the Royal Decree of 19 April 1999 specifically list the single rates for civilian victims of war. Finally, chapter 12 of the Act of 18 July 2017 increases the rates from 1 July 2017 to align them with the rates of military repairs pensions. The law of 18 July 2017 therefore provides a sufficient legal basis and all administrative procedures are in order for the pensions of victims of terrorist acts to be liquidated and paid by the Federal Pension Service. It is true that a royal decree setting the new single rates is being drawn up. Since the legal basis is sufficient, it is simply a matter of transposing the new rates into a coordinated form. This will not affect the processing of claims and the payment of compensation pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u66	Minister, thank you for your full answers. I make a good distinction between national recognition and compensation pensions. I hear the order is going to be made to coordinate the amounts. I participated in the committee of inquiry into the attacks and I followed in particular the section on victims. It is extremely painful to be faced with people who are victims twice: they have been victims of a terrible tragedy – a terrorist attack – and they have to fight every day to get a minimum of compensation. Minister, I take advantage of this reply to draw your attention and motivate you to be proactive within the government to implement the important recommendation – unanimously voted by the committee of inquiry – to create a status as a victim of terrorist attacks, like what exists in France. This is the creation of a fund – financed by the State and insurance companies – that allows immediate recognition after the events and is intended to compensate victims who face significant costs in the aftermath of the attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u67	Minister, the Netherlands decided in 2013 to purchase 37 F-35 aircraft. The new Secretary of State for Defence Barbara Visser informed the House that only 34 of the 37 aircraft would be purchased for the time being because the purchase of 37 aircraft would be too expensive. It should be noted that with 37 aircraft, the Netherlands can barely meet the stated military ambition level. The price is too high because of the changing dollar rate, something the General Court has been warning in the Netherlands for years. The F-35 devices purchased are to be paid in dollars because the Netherlands buys the appliances and their equipment directly from the US government. According to the Court, Defence must take into account future course changes and be transparent about the risks posed by the replacement of fighter aircraft. According to Defense, with the planned 37 fighter planes, the Netherlands could deploy four aircraft for military missions and two aircraft for airspace surveillance. According to the calculations of the General Court, this is an overestimated calculation. The Court expects that only four aircraft will be available for foreign missions and airspace monitoring together. With the number of 37 to 34 devices shrinking, even this ambition is at risk. Minister, the F-35 is one of the candidate successors of our own F-16 fighter planes and this government provides for the purchase of 34 aircraft. A scenario like the Dutch would be disastrous. Less than 34 devices means that operationality can be questioned. In any case, my group is not in favour of purchasing new fighter aircraft, but the purchase of less than 34 fighter aircraft would make sure that the aircraft are no longer usable for our military missions and the surveillance of airspace. In that case, our country will pay a great deal to guard our airspace, if only for that purpose. We are talking about the purchase of the century and there are many lessons to be learned from the various international replacement procedures. Involving the Court of Auditors is an absolute must. Please answer the following questions. You provide for the deployment of six aircraft on foreign mission and two aircraft for the surveillance of airspace. Based on what calculation do you arrive at these numbers? How can these figures be consistent with the figures of the Dutch Court of Auditors or the Dutch Defence Department? Are you prepared to have the employability calculated by the Court of Auditors? Secondly, what is your response to the Dutch announcement? What guarantees do you see to avoid the same scenario in Belgium? Thirdly, when do you foresee the use of the Court of Auditors to calculate the financial impact of the replacement? So much for my first question. My second question concerns the compensation race in the replacement file for the F-16. In mid 2018, this government decides on the replacement of the F-16 fighter planes. Officially there are two more candidates in the running, the American F-35 and the German-British Eurofighter. The French Government decided to hand over a cooperation proposal to our government outside the tendering procedure. To date, there is no clarity as to whether or not the French Rafale will remain a candidate to replace our fighter jets. The Prime Minister does not rule out their participation in the further procedure. In addition, the French Minister of Defence is already promising 4 billion in economic compensation through French investments spread across our country. The lobbying machine with the other candidate substitutes is also not silent. For example, the European consortium promises cyber security for the entire telecoms in our country. Lockheed Martin also unpacked with a lot of promises for our country. Mr President, first of all, can you explain the compensation offered by the various candidates? Is there any clarity within the government about the French proposal, whether or not this is still in the running? Secondly, is cooperation with France still under consideration, or will you stick to the F-35 and the Eurofighter in the procedure? If so, is this your interpretation of the rules? Or is this the government's official position? Thirdly, what body will control the promises made regarding these compensations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u68	Madam President, Minister, according to a message in De Tijd a while ago, Prime Minister Michel is interfering in the purchase file for fighter aircraft. He and his party are reportedly working for the Dassault Rafale to remain in the proceedings. You disagree. You say that you yourself do not prefer a specific device, which I take note of, but that the French Government has not followed the RfGP procedure and that the Rafale is therefore out of the race. Meanwhile, it turns out that Dassault offers billions of investments and 4 500 jobs in Belgium, of course to spawn the decision-making process, because such things always sound very attractive. Also Lockheed Martin is doing his bit in the meantime, because via Fokker Asco was already able to ensure the production of part of the aircraft wing of the F-35. It seems that France wants to compete with the F-35 and the Typhoon mainly in terms of economic compensation. From a procedural point of view, the legally questionable economic compensation is given only 10% weight in the final assessment. Promised economic compensation is sometimes not achieved. Moreover, the manufacturers charge at least part of such compensation in the price. Minister, how can the government maintain that the procedure is fair and transparent if it is considering considering France's non-regulatory proposal? How will you avoid the real competition becoming one that is mainly fought with economic compensation? How will you avoid opting for the best equipment in terms of price/quality? In any case, compensation is severely restricted by Europe. Why didn't you check that you're not getting yourself into bigger legal problems by asking for compensation in this way? I would also like to ask you about a state of affairs. Since the previous discussion in Parliament, some time has passed again. Does the government really want to land with the file on the replacement of the F-16s? The current procedure does not seem to cover all the options. Can you explain the situation in detail?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u69	Minister, on September 7th, France had proposed to Belgium an in-depth partnership instead of a response to the call for tenders that you had launched for the purchase off the shelf of 34 bomber fighters. Although you considered here in this committee, a few days later, that this offer was not a formal response to the RfGP, and that from then on, France was out of the competition in progress, on 6 October last, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister MR of Foreign Affairs Didier Reynders asked you to continue "to talk to everyone", that is to say to keep France and Rafale in the current competition. The Government's formal decision on the response to your French counterpart's letter has since been suspended. The views of MR and N-VA in this market, which has become very complicated, seem irreconcilable. Accordingly, these are the four questions I would like to ask you. At the beginning of October, one or more new legal analyses of the two existing legal analyses, that of Defence on the one hand, and that of Stibbe on the other, were commissioned. What are the conclusions of these new legal studies? What are the legal and financial risks identified by these studies, and the potential risks incurred by the State in the event that it chooses the French offer instead of pursuing the current GFR? In addition, did the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs ask you to cancel the public procurement procedure initiated by the RfGP? Do you have formal or informal contacts with your French counterpart, Mrs Parly, who has since become the author of a carte blanche published in the Belgian press? When did you reply to his mail or when do you intend to do so? Finally, when will the decision of the Council of Ministers be taken on this matter? Will you make a formal decision before the deadline for the next step in the conduct of the RFGP, in February or before?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Top, in relation to your question on the number of aircraft needed, I would refer to the report of the hearing with Colonel Van Pee in this committee on 24 February 2016. You will find this in document 54/1782/001 on page 31 et seq. The methodology for reaching 34 aircraft was discussed in detail there. I'll repeat it again. If Parliament asks the Court of Auditors to carry out certain studies in the context of the replacement of the F-16s, my services and the Defence Staff will cooperate fully. By the way, I would like to remind you that on its own initiative, the Defence Department offered the full evaluation methodology to the Court of Auditors before the staff received the initial offers on 7 September 2017. You ask me to make an evaluation of the intervention of the Dutch Court of Auditors on the progress of the Dutch replacement programme. First of all, the Dutch and Belgian programmes differ substantially, both in terms of the programme and the timeline. The Dutch have joined a development program, while we go for an off-the-shelf purchase with several candidates. The Dutch will have their last plane delivered in a few years' time, while for us any delivery of any aircraft would not be completed for 13 years. It therefore seems to me not only not appropriate but also not relevant to comment on the findings of the Dutch Court of Auditors. You will then ask further when I plan to use the Court of Auditors to regulate the financial impact of the replacement. Mr Top, I offered the evaluation procedure to the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors said it was not competent. It is not up to me as the representative of the executive to decide whether or not to involve a body that depends on the legislative power. I repeat, if the Chamber of Representatives instructs the Court of Auditors to carry out an investigation, we shall, as we always do, cooperate fully transparently and favourably. On the question of compensation offered by the various candidates, I would remind you that we do not impose compensation, because that would indeed be contrary to European rules. Those who fear that only compensation would be decided, I would like to remind you once again that a clear point count has been described in the RfGP, which is transparently available on my web site. Of course, we offer candidates the opportunity to propose measures that can help safeguard our essential security interests. Measures to protect essential security interests will, in most cases, lead to economic and industrial activities in the relatively short term, but they cannot be an end in themselves. You will understand that at this stage I cannot, and above all I do not want to, make any specific proposals on the subject, if only because only the programme office on the Defence Staff and the competent departments of the FPS Economy have that information. The negotiations in preparation for the BAFO, which we are expecting on 14 February, are still under way. In due course, after receiving the best and final sacrifice, on 14 February, a Joint Assessment Committee of the Defence Staff and the FPS Economy will evaluate the proposals. After the assignment of the assignment or the conclusion of a MoU, the FPS Economy is responsible for the follow-up of the proposals. The legal analysis of the French letter has not yet been completed. The government will make the necessary decisions in a timely manner. I personally had no formal or informal contact with my French counterpart, Mrs Parly. As you know, today I have two different legal assessments that say that we should proceed with our RfGP, as it was launched. I note, by the way, Mr De Vriendt, that in your question you actually recommend that I continue with my RfGP, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u71	Mr Minister, first of all about your comment on compensation and that you cannot say anything about it today. That's right! I agree that you cannot give any further explanation on this matter today and that this needs to be deepened further. You also refer to a joint defence and economic staff to sort this out. My question is to what extent we do not pursue the facts when we involve the Court of Auditors. I would therefore like to respond to your reply and point out that these will be figs after Easter when the decision has already been taken. After all, we must be able to go through all the proposals properly and critically. I have not yet heard a clear answer to the question whether or not the third party provider, being the French, is still playing. In the coming weeks the necessary answers may be forthcoming. That question still lingers with me. In your reply, you refer to Colonel Van Pee's explanation of the methodology he used for his figures. I'm not taking anything away from Colonel Van Pee's methodology, and maybe he's 100% right that we have 34 planes. This indicates that there are differences in the methods used to arrive at the figures. The Netherlands apparently needs 37 aircraft to achieve the same employability, while we only need 34. That is a first point. However, we ignore the fact that the Dutch do not manage to buy 37 aircraft with the proposed budget. That indicates that, if we made that choice, we might not be able to buy the 34 aircraft with the estimated budget. That is why I am asking whether these methods should not be re-examined. I therefore continue to insist that the legislature should involve the Court of Auditors in this, as a watchdog but also as a body that can make transparent calculations for the Members of Parliament. You are right that it is not up to the executive to do so, and I will stick to my request that the Court of Auditors be called upon to do so as soon as possible. For this reason, I will also table a motion asking for a transparent communication on the financial consequences of the F-16's replacement file and on the level of ambition of the 34 fighter aircraft, as well as a signal of willingness to involve the Court of Auditors in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u72	Mr. Secretary, you seem to be living in a parallel universe. We read all kinds of criticisms in the press, even from government parties that distance themselves from the case. The replacement procedure of the F-16 is completely turned into the soup. However, you answer our questions with a mere repetition of the formal procedure that has been drawn up and which we all know, but in the meantime there is a different reality and a lot of things are not at all certain anymore. Our Prime Minister and French President Macron are having a conversation for the benefit of the Rafale. There is now a candidate, Rafale, who had first dropped out but came back another way. You are right, considering this French candidate will cause problems in the way it is now proceeding. In any case, it does not make the procedure more transparent. There's no doubt about that. Three out of five candidates have dropped out. Economic compensations are magical. And indeed, there are essential security interests. But those companies don't care about that. Their economic compensations are spread out in public opinion: so many jobs, so many investments. I also asked you at the time to test the essential security interests of the European Commission. Your Deputy Prime Minister, Jan Jambon, said on the radio that this had happened. In the end, we now know that this has not happened at all. If we deal with the concept of 'essential security interests' in a very flexible way, we will, of course, have legal problems with the European Commission. The conclusion, Minister, is: cancel the whole procedure and do your homework again. After all, everything is completely turned into the soup. The best proof for that is that you do not answer all the questions we ask you. We have faced you with all the things that we read in the press, including from within the government, and you are not responding. You're just repeating the formal procedure. That is the best proof that you live in a parallel universe and that everything is better stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note that you are in the fog and, as far as aircraft are concerned, it is annoying, even if they are very high-tech aircraft that can fly in fog times. Nevertheless, it has been three months since France made its offer and the government has still not responded to the French minister's letter. Contrary to what this suggests, Mr. De Vriendt and I have been against this market since the beginning, as well as against all these offers. There is no ambiguity in this matter. Perhaps one of the ways to get you out of the pressure exerted by France and your MR partners would be to finally ask the European Commission for this opinion. You could ask him how to apply the 2009 directive on military procurement and the prohibition of compensation extremely clearly. In the end, you would have a reply to give to Messrs. Reynders and Michel, who are in a hurry by the French President, Mr Macron. This very clear answer would make it clear that the European directives on competition in military markets are absolutely not respected and that this French offer, which comes from nowhere, does not respect the RfGP as you have chosen it. In this market you only have two competitors. The legal and financial effects are enormous and the only solution to avoid harmful effects, over several generations, is to cancel the market, which the RfGP allows you to do via its Article 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u74	I would like to return to Mr Top, who said that he forgot to mention something important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u75	Madam President, Minister, I would like to add that the interplay is obviously intended for the Minister, but also that I will again table a motion for a resolution in the Chamber asking the Court of Auditors to be involved in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u76	Mr Top, your interplay will be good for the statistics if you table a motion. However, I do not understand how you can encourage someone from the executive to let the legislative authority take a decision. However, that is by no means the case. We took a look at it, because suddenly the European Commission is coming up. There has been effective informal contact. The fact is, however, that the European Commission does not have competence for the dossier. After all, it is a matter of defence matter. It was first stated that the Court of Auditors had to act and that I had to work with the Court of Auditors. However, it did not declare itself competent to receive my file. We then contacted the European Commission on the dossier. We have received formal confirmation that it is not possible because it is about defence matter and the European Commission is not competent to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u77	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top and reads as follows: "The Chamber, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). and the reply of the Minister for Defence, responsible for the civil service, asks the Minister of Defence - communicate transparently about the financial implications for our country for the F-16 replacement file; - to communicate transparently with 34 fighter aircraft on the achievable level of ambition; - to give a signal of willingness to involve the Court of Auditors in this dossier." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Alain Top and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Alain Top and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, asks the Minister of Defence - to be transparent about the financial consequences of replacing the F-16s for our country; - be transparent about the level of ambition achievable with 34 combat aircraft; - send a signal that he is willing to involve the Court of Auditors in this case." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge and Jean-Jacques Flahaux. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Mrs Jadin is absent and has not informed us, so her question No is deleted. 22614.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u78	Madam Chair, Minister, on October 27, 2017, on your Twitter account, you indicated that no military barracks would close during this legislature. Your comments have reassured me somewhat, and very temporarily, since you have been trying for several months to finalize a plan of "rationalization" clearly endangering the facilities of Tournaise. Beyond the budgetary debates of previous weeks, for several months, I have been calling on you in this committee to defend the military quarters of Tournai. As the last Belgian military bastion in Hainaut, Tournai played an important role in training the military. The Ruquoy barracks, where the headquarters of the Support Training Skills Centre are located, welcome thousands of students each year for logistics training. It is also important to recall that the Tournaise barracks have benefited from significant investments to accommodate the military and students in high-quality infrastructure. To be precise, since 1996, almost 40 million euros have been invested in the Ruquoy and Saint John barracks. Starting in 2018, Defence will launch an extensive recruitment plan to rejuvenate its troops. It is intended to recruit 1,570 people next year and 2,100 in subsequent years, until 2021. In concrete terms, very many students will have to be trained in the coming years and I see from this perspective a real opportunity for the military installations in Tournai. Minister, do you confirm that in the years to come, Defence will have to train more students than it currently does and that it will need its infrastructure in full? With 40 million euros invested in the barracks over the last 20 years, do you not believe that Tournai has an important role to play in the training of young recruits and therefore in the future of Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u79	Madam President, Mr Delannois, at the last committee on 29 November 2017, in response to several oral questions, I made it clear and stated that I assumed that, apart from the barracks whose closure had already been decided upon, no other barracks would close before 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u80	Madam Chair, I have the feeling that every time I question the minister, I bother him royally. It's okay! That will not prevent me from continuing to do so. I ask a question and I don't get an answer. I'm getting used to it. I know he doesn't even listen to my line. Anyway, I wish him a merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u81	Minister, we kept the best for the end of the year! The government was proud to introduce a law – symbolic, since non-normative – on military programming of investments for the period 2016-2030. It must be noted that, if this government does not liquidate a euro under this legislature for this purpose, the defence-related files follow quickly, as I have seen in the Committee on the Purchase and Sale of Military Equipment in recent months. In one of my previous questions to the Prime Minister, he said that at the regional level, indeed, the Minister of Defence had conducted several consultation meetings with representatives of the federated entities on the issue of economic returns. However, I learned with regret that it would be nothing. Indeed, the Regions would simply have been informed in a very general way and without being involved in your ministry, while my group has been asking you from the beginning. As for the Minister of Economy – who is in charge of societal returns – he would not have made any contact with the federated entities and would not have formulated any strategy in this regard, despite the inclusion on the agenda of this issue by the Brussels-Capital Region in the Concertation Committee. Whatever the nature – Air, Earth or Sea – of the massive investments planned, everything seems to indicate to us that industrial interests, as well as academic research and development, and, above all, jobs in our three Regions seem far removed from the concerns of this government. While it is essential to respect European regulations in this area and to ensure greater transparency, Defence is one of the last concrete levers for investing in federal power. It is therefore incomprehensible for my group to witness so much torpor at the expense of the interests of our security and defence industries. These are, as we know, mainly present in the south of the country and offer several strategic aspects. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, the following questions, which could also have been attached to others that some colleagues have already asked. How do you explain that, at this stage, there has still not been any consultation with the federated entities and the Belgian companies concerned in the context of the implementation of the military programming law adopted by this government? Can you provide us with an update on the progress of the files contained in the military programming law that have already been initiated by the government and that have already been passed into the Military Equipment Purchase and Sale Commission? How do you explain that Belgian industrial interests weigh so little in the cases already initiated by this government, both in the Air component with combat aircraft and in the Earth component with motorized combat vehicles?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u82	Madam President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, it is clear that this area is not within the competence of the Defence, but of the Economy, and that the levers available to Defence are limited. Moreover, the European directives do not allow us to promote our own economy. Nevertheless, there have already been several meetings between my cabinet and the offices of the ministers-presidents and regional ministers concerned. In addition, there have already been many meetings with industry sector organizations. In October 2016, the Council of Ministers took a decision on the application of the essential security interests arising from Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We are working mainly on the basis of this decision in order to optimise societal return for Belgium, Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels. Currently, only four files have been submitted to the Military Procurement Commission: replacement of the F-16s, vehicles for the Earth component, the MRTT refueller and the simulation and firing equipment. Contracts are expected before summer 2018. As long as there is no contract, it is difficult to say what will be the societal return for Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u83	Mr Minister, I know you want to be reassuring, but it seems to me that my colleague Mr Flahaux has asked a question on this subject in which his concern about societal returns in the case of the purchase of frigates is apparent. Concern is present in my group and in the opposition, but not only. You are talking about contracts that should be signed before the summer of 2018 justifying that it is difficult to assess societal returns before the said signature. I agree. But I present the problem to you otherwise by asking you to look at societal returns before entering into contracts because in terms of employment and economy, it is important. I understand that you do not have all the cards in your hands, which is why I will put a question to your colleagues. But I would also like to point out that it has been months since the federated entities were consulted on this subject. Beyond the various levers that you say you cannot raise and European standards, I am concerned because I have the firm belief that there is a lack of will on the part of this government, on your part and on that of other members of this government, to have societal returns, in any case for the South of this country directly concerned by at least two of the four markets you have just mentioned, namely the F-16s and the vehicles of the Earth component. I will not fail to question your colleagues and come back with questions while wishing you good holidays at the end of the year and, in your personal capacity, to you and your colleagues and to the President, the best.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic788x.u84	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I wish you happy holidays as well.
