ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u1	Welcome to you, Minister! We will start our work, which is likely to be quite short. Questions No 16718 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter, No 16354 by Mr Raf Terwingen and No 16382 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u2	Minister, the College of the Environment of the Brussels-Capital Region recently decided to cancel the environmental permit which had been issued last May to the Régie des Bâtiments for the Palais de Justice in Brussels. This decision follows an action brought by the Collège des Bourgmères et échevins de la Ville de Bruxelles, which challenged the continued operation of open parking spaces in front of the main entrance of the building, as well as the ramps that allow access from the Marolles district. In this regard, the College wished to open negotiations with the Régie des Bâtiments, but also with the SPF Justice, in order to find a lasting and constructive solution in this matter. As you know, we have already stressed on several occasions in this House the need to change the dossier of the redevelopment of the Palais de Justice in Brussels. In this connection, together with Deputy Prime Minister Jambon, in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, you had attested to the government's willingness to move forward by announcing a draft masterplan last October. The cancellation of the above-mentioned permit is of course a cause for concern because of the delay in the implementation of the renovation process. So, Minister, my questions will be as follows. What exactly is the status of the case? In concrete terms, what are the reasons for the cancellation of the environmental permit and what is the impact on the masterplan project? In synergy with your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, have you had contact with the authorities of the City of Brussels to find compromise solutions as soon as possible? What exactly is the status of the masterplan for the Palais de Justice and its surroundings? What is the reasonable time frame for its adoption? Thank you in advance, Minister, for the answers you can give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u3	Mr President, Mr Calomne, the environmental permit was cancelled because it was notified late by the Brussels Institute for Environmental Management (IBGE). This procedural error was discovered during the examination of the appeal brought by the City of Brussels on the issue of outdoor parking. The action of the City of Brussels in itself is therefore not the cause of the cancellation of the environmental permit. Despite the fact that the permit was cancelled following the delay of notification, my services will arrange with the Régie des Bâtiments a meeting with the authorities of the City of Brussels to discuss the problem of parking with a view to the introduction of a new licence application. The cancellation of the permit has no influence on the other rehabilitation projects at the Palais de Justice in Brussels. A multi-year plan already exists for the renovation of the roofs and facades of the palace. On the other hand, with regard to the study of an interior renovation of the palace, it is still being planned by the Régie des Bâtiments. The construction of the building is the responsibility of my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. It is, of course, in a position to respond in detail to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u4	Minister, thank you for your reassuring response. I note that the renovation project under way is not affected. I had anticipated part of the answer, since I also asked the Minister of the Régie des Bâtiments, Mr. Jambon, for further information. I am more or less reassured about the progress of this project. The press releases on this information seemed a little alarming, raising concerns about the expected renovation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u5	Questions No 16421 by Mr Klaps, No 16437 by Mr Degroote, No 16453 by Mrs Van Cauter and No 16456 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u6	Mr President, Mr Minister, despite the government agreement that the judicial framework should be strengthened in the capital, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office seems unfortunately still suffering from a shortage of staff. Indeed, the framework would have only 101 magistrates out of the 119 posts that could potentially be filled. On the other hand, it would appear that the Federal Prosecutor's Office would have benefited from an increase in its staff, in the wake of the terrorist situation we are unfortunately experiencing today. At the outset, I would like to point out that, contrary to some statements, I do not agree with the idea that there would be double standards, since it is clear that the government supports all the poles of justice, without distinction, while facing these new threats to the population. So, minister, I won't be long and will come straight to my questions. What are the current needs for new magistrates at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office? What are the priorities for staff engagement? Has a general recruitment procedure already been launched by your services in this area? Finally, what is the expected agenda for remedying the shortage of judges in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u7	Mr Calomne, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office currently has a total of 103 magistrates on board 119. Four of them are substitutes for the king's prosecutor specializing in the enforcement of sentences and can be replaced in excess. Twelve appointment procedures are currently under way. They were published in the course of 2016, i.e. on 22 July, 19 October and 15 December 2016. You will observe that vacant places are regularly published. For the public prosecutor's office in Brussels, a new publication of vacant places is currently being prepared. This holiday will appear later this month. Among them are again six additional vacancies of substitutes for the King's Prosecutor for the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. In accordance with the agreements reached with regard to the appeal of places for judges for the courts of the judicial district of Brussels, the intention remains to provide the full framework for judges at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. As regards the organisation of new incoming flows, the High Council of Justice organises an annual competition for admission to the judicial internship and, on the basis of this one, a new promotion of judicial trainees is appointed on 1 October of each year. An examination of professional skills is also organised, on the basis of which the winners can apply directly for concrete places within the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that you wish to provide the full scope of the judges at the Brussels Prosecutor's Office, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u9	Minister, the newspaper La Dernière Deux du 30 janvier 2017 reported a hearing in a murder case, stating that it was set before the indictment chamber in Brussels on Monday 23 January at 9 a.m. A registered letter calling for this hearing was received by the civil party on Monday, January 23, at 11:30 a.m., more than one hour after the hearing. The civil party was therefore unable to attend the hearing, as well as to consult the file in advance, as permitted by law. The story does not end there, since the civil party tried to reach the indictments chamber registry via an official email address, wanting to express its discontent. It would appear that this is not valid. Minister, have you been informed of the reasons why the summons to this hearing was not received by the civil party after this hearing was held? In this case, does the civil party have any other means of asserting its rights? Is there an explanation for this difficulty in the email addresses of the transplants? Have you been informed of this, even though I realize that it is not you who are in the process of doing this? Have any initiatives been taken, this time as a preventive measure, to ensure that the e-mail addresses of the other registries are active?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u10	Mr President, the Prosecutor General of Brussels has given me the following details. The civil parties were summoned by mail on 19 January 2017 by the offices of the Registry of the Indictments Chamber, the short delays being explained by the fact that one of the accused is in pre-trial detention. Their counsel was notified by fax on the same date. The hearing scheduled for January 23, 2017 focused solely on the control of specific research methods. The Civil Parties' Board was present at the hearing and argued that it relied on the wisdom of the Indictments Chamber. As for the e-mail address mentioned on the summonses sent by the Registry of the Indictments Chamber, it was indeed incorrect. This was noted by the relevant departments. They asked the IT department to delete this address immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u11	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u12	The data held by "managers of the net" such as Apple, Twitter, Facebook, Microsoft may be of interest to justice. According to the newspaper L'Echo, Belgian justice increasingly makes use of these companies, for example in order to know the identity of a user, the content of publications or messages, the data kept by a person, etc. In the first six months of 2016, 1,223 requests for information would have been addressed to these companies by the Belgian courts. But all these requests are not answered. The investigating judges find that the "managers of the net" are increasingly reluctant to grant their applications. In addition, when a response is provided, it relates exclusively to identification information or communication data, never to content. This deterioration of the collaboration between justice and the "giants of the net" obviously raises questions and could prove problematic, as we know the importance that certain societies have taken in our daily lives. In 2016, how many requests for information were made by the courts to "net managers"? This question could perhaps be the subject of a written question, if necessary. What was the positive response rate from these companies during this year of 2016? What information can be requested? How do you evaluate the collaboration of these "managers of the net"?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u13	Mr President, I confirm the growing importance for criminal investigations of the data of these "giants of the net", to use your expression. According to data from the National Technical Support Unit (NTSU), the federal police department that manages contacts with these providers, there were 3,382 requests sent by the police in 2016 for the main companies that are Facebook, Instagram, Microsoft, Google, Twitter and Apple. Only identification and location data may be requested. For content data, providers require that mutual criminal assistance be used, i.e., most often cooperation with the US federal authorities. It should be noted that the United States does not agree to cooperate in the interception of communications. For direct contacts that exclude access to the content of communications, the rate of positive responses varies from one provider to another, but is on average 70%. In general, it is clear that the situation is not satisfactory, the criteria for cooperation are not the same from one provider to another. Some require to be able to prevent the target of the measure, others require a great deal of information to determine whether the measure is justified, whereas this is the prerogative of the Belgian judicial authorities, etc. My strategy and that of the police and judicial authorities in this priority area combine three elements. First of all, we recall that Belgian law is clear: these providers must cooperate in the same way as an operator such as Proximus. The jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation was confirmed in the Law on Research Methods, which was passed at the end of 2016. As a result, criminal proceedings are initiated against those who do not cooperate and Skype was convicted in the first instance last year on this basis. The federal police are also developing contacts with the providers to seek solutions, both in Brussels and Washington, where this is an important aspect of the liaison officer's work. Finally, I have made this a priority at European Union level in the criminal sector. These efforts are beginning to bear fruit. The European Council confirmed last year how important the subject is and work is under way, with the active participation of Belgian experts, to find solutions. I believe that the European legal framework is indispensable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. It would be interesting to know the conclusions of that working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u15	Mr President, on the agenda, I also have a joint question with Mrs Becq. It's out here somewhere, but we may not be able to meet. If she still comes in, that question can still be asked. Mr Minister, on 25 August 2015, the final composition of the Committee for Objecting Maintenance Contributions was published in the Belgian Official Journal. On 15 January 2016, a year ago, the installation finally took place. The law that provided for this installation dates back to 2010. The committee is instructed to develop a generally accepted system for an objective calculation of maintenance contributions for children of divorced parents. The 2010 Act states in a new Article 1322 that an annual report should be submitted by the committee by 31 January. I believe that we agree on the need for a uniform and objective system. Since the committee was set up a while ago and you may have received the report in the meantime, I have a few questions on this. Mr Minister, have you received any progress from the committee? Has a concrete working plan been drawn up? Is it being made available to us? Will the extraordinary costs be included in the contract or in the report? By what time do you intend to put these opinions into legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u16	Mrs Uyttersprot, the Committee on Maintenance Contributions has completed its first year of work. As you know, the composition and functioning of the Committee were regulated by Royal Decree of 7 February 2014. The committee was finally installed on January 15, 2016. The Rules of Procedure were adopted by me on 22 December 2016. I put your question to the chairman of the committee, who subsequently informed me that the committee bureau is currently preparing a report for the first year of work in accordance with Rule 1322, Paragraph 1, second paragraph. This report will be discussed and submitted for approval at the next meeting of the Committee on 24 February 2017. The report will be delivered to me after approval and will then be submitted by me to Parliament after it has been translated. This annual report will also contain a recommendation on the issue of extraordinary costs. I am therefore waiting with you for the content of this annual report to see whether any recommendations made in this report should be transposed into legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Within two to three weeks you will apparently receive the report which will also deal with the extraordinary costs. That's very positive. The purpose, object and reason of this committee is to eliminate the legal uncertainty for the creditors who are now dependent on the wet fingering of the systems currently in place, namely the Renard method, the Family Association's maintenance money calculator and the Treminy method, which are quite far apart in terms of method of calculation. This committee should be able to remedy this in the future. So I look forward to the report with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u18	Mr Minister, after the train disaster in Wetteren on 4 May 2013, many victims still do not know whether and when they will be compensated for the damage suffered. The court of first instance recently stated that the train driver was responsible for the disaster. Unfortunately, however, he has passed away. Recently there was an information meeting for those involved in the train disaster. There they were informed that the only option of compensation would be provisional in order to hold a bourgeois party against the survivors of the deceased train driver or the employer's insurance. That is not the most appropriate option, but there is no other. I therefore found it positive when I heard last week that the Council of Ministers gave its agreement to draft a bill so that disaster victims can be compensated more quickly in the future when it comes to faultless liability. In this way, it is not necessary to wait until liability is established whether an error has been proven. I think this is a very good thing, although I do have a few questions. Who will pay the damages in case of faultless liability? Where does the money that will be provided for this come from? Can I assume that this only applies to new disasters, and that this law will not apply to new claims on older facts? Is it an option, as in Germany, to require railway undertakings and railway wagon owners to take out additional objective liability insurance? In the event of a train crash, this money can then be used to compensate victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, I can confirm that a draft law is being prepared to simplify and speed up a judicial procedure for compensation of damage in cases of damage covered by the rules on faultless liability. The rules of liability of this kind make it possible for the injured party to be compensated without having to prove that the liable party committed an error. In the first instance, the rule laid down in Article 4 of the preceding Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides that the judgment of the civil court in which an action for damages has been brought, shall be suspended until the final judgment on a criminal action brought in response to the same acts, the renowned rule of criminal criminal tent le civil and etatuto........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In addition, the draft law seeks to prevent the compensation of the injured party on the basis of faultless liability from being delayed by the simultaneous handling of various intermediate claims, such as claims relating to the distribution of the damage burden among several liable parties, or to the safeguarding of the liable party by a third party. Thirdly, it avoids delaying the treatment of a claim for compensation on the basis of faultless liability as a result of its consistency with claims based on fault liability. The claim based on faultless liability will therefore be able to be separated from claims brought by the injured parties on the basis of other pleas in law. Therefore, the insurer will be required to pay more quickly victims of damage resulting from that faultless liability. The purpose of the draft law is not to determine who will pay compensation in the event of faultless liability, nor to require railway undertakings and owners of railway vehicles to have additional objective liability insurances taken out. The cases of faultless liability are determined by the existing special laws, such as Article 29a of the Act on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. You will understand that it is not within the competence of the Minister of Justice to decide on the desirability of railway undertakings, railway undertakings and owners of railway vehicles to take additional liability insurance, whether objective or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u20	Minister, as has already been said, this is a very good initiative. I hear here that the division of procedures will take place, so that the part that is on the table does not depend on the part of the criminal law that might effectively delay the investigation or the payment. This is often the case now in the case of long investigations. In the case of Wetteren, this has been going on for three and a half years and the end is not yet in sight. Let us hope that in the future the financial concerns of victims will not be raised. I also take it that you do not in any way provide in the draft for the compulsory additional objective liability insurance to be imposed on railway wagon owners and railway undertakings. We are certainly taking that suggestion with us to present it to the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u21	Minister, last week a playful action by a college in Hasselt caused some turmoil, especially in the case of parents of lifeless children. I do not need to remind you that the coalition agreement provides for the modernisation of legislation on naming and registration of lifeless children. I know that you are upset, because you have already put that on the agenda yourself, including by organising hearings. We were also allowed to receive studies. I think we agree that the recognition of parents in their mourning represents a major step for them. I have a number of questions following what has been published in the press and your announcement of the draft law which we are due to receive this year. Minister, we read that there is only a reduction in the limit for registration from 180 to 140 days. Can you confirm that information, or is it too soon for that? A Flemish decree provides for the possibility of cremating or burying a lifeless child, regardless of the duration of pregnancy. Is this not contrary to the federal legislation currently in force, even if two different powers are involved? Do you also provide for parents to register their lifeless born child in the birth register instead of just a death certificate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u22	Mrs Uyttersprot, I would like to stress that the entry of the humanoid robot, designed by the University of PXL, in the birth register of the city of Hasselt, is a purely symbolic action. No official record of the civil status was drawn up at that event and there is therefore no authentic entry in the birth register. Nevertheless, I am aware that such actions, although symbolic, may be confronting for parents of a lifeless child. The subject affects a lot of people very deeply. I understand that with many parents of a child born without life after a pregnancy that lasted less than 180 days, there is a need to give that child a place in their lives. The regulations on cemeteries and funeral services are somewhat in line with this, as you yourself say. This legislation was transferred to the Regions in 2003, which took regulatory action in this area. The Flemish Decree of 28 March 2014 allows any child born without life to be buried or cremated if the parents so wish. A Walloon Decree of 6 March 2009 allows lifeless born fetuses born between the 106th and 180th day of pregnancy at the request of the parents to be either buried on the quiet children's meadow that any public administrator must build or be cremated. A similar scheme exists in the Brussels-Capital Region. Federal legislation has not been fundamentally amended in the field of registration of lifeless children since 1999. This makes it particularly difficult to speak of a contradiction that would have been created by federal law, although this may be experienced by the parents themselves. As you know, the coalition agreement provides for the drafting of new legislation on the name and registration of lifeless children. I have already taken concrete steps to this end. On 6 May 2015, I presented the results of an in-depth study carried out by my administration, with the aim of measuring the needs in the field, identifying the different solutions and examining the consequences of this solution. The hope was that the Justice Commission could make rapid progress on this dossier and open the debate on the basis of the legislative proposals submitted. I understand that it is legal complex and socially particularly delicate and that a proper balance needs to be struck between the different individual needs of parents in mourning, as demonstrated by the hearings held on these legislative proposals. As I announced in my 2017 policy paper, I am preparing a draft law to restart the debate in committee. I do not wish to comment at the moment on the precise outline of the draft, but I am trying to respond to the concerns that you have raised in your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u23	Minister, we know your intentions. I would be sorry if, after legislative time, proposals were put forward which have now led to a statement of principle, to put it that way, in the government agreement, but also in one of the first committees where you proposed this study, that there was no consensus on party boundaries and majority and opposition on the need to modernise and humanise our legislation, which lags behind our neighbouring countries. I would like to take this opportunity to support you and ask you to put the grieving process and the individual choices of people at the centre of it at all times. As far as we are concerned, the possibility of registration in the birth register and naming may exist regardless of the duration of pregnancy. Mind you, this is a possibility, not an obligation. At the moment, it is very difficult to accept that a child can die effectively without being born effectively. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u24	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the operation of the maintenance service, the DAVO. Mr Minister, you have worked hard to adjust the income ceiling for the advance payment scheme in such a way that, as far as maintenance money is concerned, more people would be eligible to ask for advance payments, to obtain recovery or to be helped in doing so. This has had its effect, but in the context of a number of discussions on this subject, I was told in several fora that it seems that in practice it is already happening that judges grant higher alimony payments than those that the creditor is supposed to be able to pay, because they know that the DAVO intervenes in the advance payment scheme. They are, as it were, instead of the child, assuming that this will guarantee a certain basic income. I hear that story in several places and it seems important to me to get a look at this situation, and this in the context of a possible evaluation of the DAVO and of taking the further steps in the development of the DAVO. After all, this actually transfers the risk to society in part. If so, and if everyone wants this to happen, then it must be possible to do so consciously and not by means of justice. Mr. Secretary, is this story true? Do you have any leads on the subject? Can you confirm that a higher alimony is granted than one might expect? Where do such statements take place? Is that in certain jurisdictions or not? Can this also be done under the provisions of the Civil Code?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u25	Mr President, Minister, according to Article 16 of the DAVO Act, the DAVO can have the same rights and claims as the creditor and, as such, fully replace itself with regard to the collection and recovery of maintenance payments. Since 1 January 2015, it is even possible that the salary or equivalent income of the debtor may be seized indefinitely. A number of creditors brought an action for annulment before the Constitutional Court because they considered that their right to a decent life was thereby violated. The Constitutional Court rejected that as unfounded, because it states that the OMCW is obliged as a social service provider to ensure in any case that they still have sufficient resources and that it does not have to come to that. The OCMW can offset that shift by, in turn, rehearsing the family of the initial creditor, who then indirectly bears the final financial burden of the maintenance obligation, i.e. not the company itself, but the creditor of the creditor if I may put it that way. This creates a chain of claims. I have a number of questions about that. Has it indeed happened in the past that the DAVO takes advantage of the opportunity to seize below the limit of living wage? If so, do you have an idea of the number of files per year? What is the increase in revenue since 1 January 2015, especially since the introduction of the increased recovery option? Has the DAVO received complaints from the OCMW, which therefore effectively ended up in a kind of chain? Do you see an opportunity to make collections simpler and more efficient? Or should we submit suggestions to the evaluation committee? I have just come to the conclusion that some of my questions might rather be addressed to your colleague. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u26	Mr President, I understand that the figures relating to the recovery of advances paid by the DAVO raise a lot of questions in practice, since only a limited proportion of the advances paid by the DAVO are recovered. In fact, it is not for DAVO to assume the maintenance obligation in place of the creditor. My services have no knowledge of the practices that would exist between judges and lawyers to which you refer. However, I have submitted your question to the Committee on Maintenance Contributions for information and advice, and I have received the following elements in response. As regards the possible practice of linking the DAVO's advance payment system with the amount of maintenance money, the Committee reports that none of its members have knowledge of such practices in their capacity as magistrate or lawyer. As regards the relationship between maintenance fees and tax deductibility, the Committee points out that, from the point of view of their status as lawyers, mediators, magistrates or other legal practitioners, to the extent to which they have the necessary information, their members seek to take due account of the tax consequences of the maintenance contribution in determining the amount, in accordance with the legislator's wishes. In accordance with Article 1321 (1) (5) of the Civil Code, and subject to the agreement of the parties on the amount of the maintenance contribution, any court decision determining the maintenance contribution pursuant to Article 203 (1) of the Civil Code must also state, inter alia, the amount of the child benefit and the social and tax benefits of all kinds which each of the parents receives for the child. That article was introduced so that, when determining the maintenance contribution, the court must take into account, inter alia, the professional income, movable and immovable income of the parents, as well as all the benefits and other means which guarantee their standard of living and those of their children. However, for the purposes of further research, the Committee on Maintenance Contributions is very interested in receiving concrete information from the questioners on this particular practice, including which arrondissements would be involved. I will also ask the committee to take the concerns into account in the light of the recommendations it has to make on the budget for maintenance contributions and to examine the questions in this connection further. Questions about the establishment of a maintenance claim service with the FPS Finance, pursuant to the DAVO Act, and about the changes to this law and its consequences in practice, fall within the competence of the Minister of Finance. My services do not have this information and have not been able to request it within the short term set for answering your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u27	Thank you for your reply, Minister. So the contacts you have within the sector show that there is no evidence, not even evidence, that this would be a practice. If that were the case, I would have asked whether this could be investigated in some way, for example by thesis students. If your services are really talking about the magistrates themselves and lawyers do not have any indication of this, then perhaps it is a rumor that is sometimes spread. In that case, I do not think that we should continue to do so. In that sense, I really think your information is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic585x.u28	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I will also refer this matter, if necessary in writing, to your colleague. In view of Mrs Becq's concern, I do not think it is a problem for DAVO, because they work for their advances and contributions with a ceiling and a maximum contribution. It is not because a court grants EUR 1 000 maintenance money per month that the DAVO will also pay this amount as an advance. I therefore believe that there is no problem with the DAVO. There is, however, a problem in the field of taxation, but that is entirely on the side. I will certainly also put the other questions to your colleague. There is certainly food in it for the next evaluation committee of the DAVO.
