ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 15596 question will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u2	Madam President, Minister, as of 2017, a student who takes action will receive more benefits. The choice between a student job or as a student entrepreneurship becomes equally interesting. In order to carry out an independent activity, one must be at least 18 years old, according to a brochure for start-ups of the FPS Economy. That is why the minimum age for the student-self-employed status is 18 years. For job students, however, the minimum age is 15 years. We can ask ourselves whether this lower limit of 18 years is relevant. In the digital economy, I can imagine that more and more young people have been developing apps and other applications since the age of fifteen or sixteen. Belgian legislation does not allow these young people to engage in independent activities. The fact that a minor can enter a student job from 15 years of age does not mean that he would be able to act for this. It is assumed that this is done with the explicit or tacit consent of the parents. Mr Minister, I have two questions in that context. Firstly, what is the legal basis for the minimum limit of 18 years on which an independent activity may be carried out? Does it concern Articles 1124 and 488 of the Civil Code? Secondly, as far as the capacity to act for underage student entrepreneurs is concerned, can this also be done with the explicit or tacit consent of the parents, as in the case of student jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u3	Madam President, Mr Vandenput, thank you for the importance you attach to the dissemination of entrepreneurial spirit among young people. As you know, Article 5quater, § 1 of Royal Decree No. 38 of 27 July 1967 providing for the social status of selfemployed persons to be at least 18 years old. In addition to this particular framework, Article 3 of the Royal Decree does not specify a minimum age to be subject to the status of self-employed persons. However, an explicit link was provided between subjection to the social status and child benefit in the memo to the Social Insurance Funds of April 1998. This note states that children who are automatically entitled to family allowances cannot be subject to the social status. Since the unconditional entitlement to family allowances is granted until 31 August of the year in which the child becomes 18 years of age, minor children cannot be subject to the Staff Regulations prior to the third quarter of the year in which they become 18. Finally, as you know, the exercise of a self-employed activity also requires a certain, in particular financial commitment from the persons starting their project. The age condition of 18 years can also be understood in this respect as a measure protecting the 18-year-old from the financial risks inherent in the development of an economic activity. I have a number of administrative comments available to you, should this be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u4	Minister, I understand from your answer that this is a rather technical matter with a legal basis. I would like to stress once again that I think that the adoption of the draft law on the equalisation of job students and students' entrepreneurs is a good thing. I would therefore like to thank you for that. I believe that we need to examine how we can make the creativity of these minors available to society. I think we should look at this, even though it does not seem possible at the moment. Maybe they can join a company together with their parents? I'll investigate this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u5	Question No 16688 by Mrs Gantois lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u6	Madam President, Minister, in 2015, the European Union had abandoned the quotas it had imposed on milk for decades. On 1 October next, quotas on sugar beet production will be in turn, which have been in operation since 1968. The European Union, with 13.5 million tonnes, is by far the world's largest producer of this commodity. Belgium, despite the size of its territory, is not out of the question (4.4% of European production). This deregulation raises fears justified by the milk crisis, which followed the end of quotas in 2015. Foreseeing a fall in prices, producers were already considering a fall in production to sustain prices, while refiners were afraid of an increase in prices due to a lack of sufficient supply. Minister, who's going to pay the bill? Our farmers, our sugar industry or consumers? All three? The European Union, which produces more than 50% of the world's sugar beet, remains a net importer in order to meet the enormous demand of its sugar refinery industry. Minister, have you made provision for adjustment and/or accompanying mechanisms so that a minimum of turbulence can disrupt this transition? If it is not your services, have the Commission's services worked in this direction? Have you had an opportunity to discuss this issue with your regional counterparts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u7	Mrs de Coster, we are experiencing an important moment when it comes to the abolition of the European sugar production quotas. This issue is indeed the source of many issues and concerns in the agricultural sector concerned. As you mentioned, the end of sugar quotas is scheduled for October 2017, following a European decision taken during the previous parliamentary term. I have had the opportunity to participate in several European Councils where this issue has been discussed. I have met several times since 2016 with representatives of the Belgian Beetteravier Confederation, which represents nearly 8,000 producers in Belgium. I also visited the Raffinerie Tirlemontoise and met with all the interlocutors of the sector. Some of my meetings focused on extending the interprofessional agreement for the post-quota period. In order to support producers as well as industrial operators active in this sector, I asked the Price Observatory in May 2016 to publish a study on the sugar sector, which was able to provide us with objective information with a view to finding a balanced agreement between the parties. The consultation, which took place mainly between the Raffinerie Tirlemontoise and the Belgian Confederation of Betteraviers, resulted, as you know, in an agreement on 16 March. In this respect, the ombudsmen mandated by the Regions, with my personal and active support, who spoke during meetings in France, contributed to the conclusion of this agreement. Of course, in the context of the end of quotas, it will obviously have to be assessed. It seems to me that last year we paid beets 29.26 euros a ton. Of course, we will have to see what the price of the future harvest will be. I am very attentive to the world's prices. For the time being, we are in a favourable situation, as the price of white sugar was above 540 euros per tonne a few weeks ago and it is still around 460 euros – according to today's quotation. No one can foreshadow, of course, the prices and prices we will know in the weeks and months to come, especially less since the method of calculating producer remuneration has been changed. As far as the various developments are concerned, we know that prices in our market tend to be close to world prices. Indeed, although our productivity is impressive in this area, if we join the average world market price, our planters may face enormous difficulties. That is why I am calling for the implementation of several recommendations of the European Agricultural Markets Task Force, in order to support inter-professional agreements by means of a mediator and to maintain the remunerative nature of production for work. You know my view of the market. I am in favour of an open economy and a market that necessarily plays its role in valuing our products. I was meeting again this noon with the agri-food industry, which told me how crucial this international openness is for us. I would point out that in Belgium the agricultural sector in Belgium represents 70,000 people, the agri-food sector, 90,000 people and indirect employment in the latter account for 148,000 people. We must therefore be very vigilant with regard to this sector, particularly with regard to our marketing messages. At the same time, I believe that markets need beacons, safety nets and measures that can, in some cases, correct collapses or risks of price collapse. This is also the case with regard to the management of agricultural markets and monitoring, in particular the sugar market but also the milk market and other markets, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u8	Minister, I know that this is a subject that you care about. Thank you for your answer. I see that you are not overly optimistic, since you have pointed out that the price should be close to the average price of the world market and that you are nevertheless careful that production for all these farmers remains remunerative, which obviously seems important to me, while knowing that we are in an open market today. I would nevertheless like to draw your attention to the fact that if the European market were unable to provide its industry with sufficient resources, we could see this natural substitute, sugar cane, taking the place of beet sugar in our food. Would there be a risk of deforestation for tropical countries? There are two main elements: what is happening in our country and what could happen if production actually became lower. I feel that you are attentive to this problem and that you intend to impose beacons. However, no one knows very well what will happen when everything is opened from 1 October. The next winter will therefore be a crucial moment for our farmers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gantois 16745 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer's 16826 question was also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u10	Mr Minister, your colleague the Secretary of State for Social Fraud, Philippe De Backer, recently launched the idea of making flexi-jobs in the Horeca accessible to pensioners. In itself, why not? The proposal deserves to be studied, especially since many pensioners are seeking to retain a partial occupational activity as long as their health and motivation permit. However, an assessment of the measurement of flexi-jobs had been planned before possible enlargement, first to other sectors, and now to other categories of the population. So I'd like to know what's going on, to clarify somewhat the government's situation and intentions in this area. Is the evaluation underway? If so, have you ever been able to see some of its findings or the most interesting elements? If so, is enlargement to other sectors still envisaged? If this is the case, is this enlargement still a priority for other sectors or, rather, for other categories of workers? Or both at the same time?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u11	Thank you, honourable Member, for this question concerning the assessment of the extension of flexi-jobs. The flexi-job has been in place since the end of 2015 and is a specific contract available to any worker who has at least four-fifths of the time in one or more other employers in the relevant quarter and who, of course, applies at this stage to the horeca sector. The remuneration paid under this flexi-job contract shall be exempt in respect of the worker. The employer pays 25% of social contributions on the so-called "flexi-salary", i.e. the wage paid under a flexi-job and on the holiday flexi-salary; there is also a minimum amount of remuneration of EUR 9.50. The government agreement states that the government will examine all aspects of the possible extension of this new casual working regime, particularly to shops and especially to local businesses. As regards the evaluation of flexi-jobs, it falls within the competence of my colleague Philippe De Backer, in charge of combating social fraud, and of Kris Peeters, Minister for Employment. However, according to the data published by ONSS, particularly on its website, the flexi-jobs system is undoubtedly a success, since, for example, in the second quarter of 2016 - and this figure increased further later - there were 14,544 flexi-jobs. This corresponds to 1,568 full-time equivalents. The scheme is undoubtedly a success since its inception in December 2015, given that there is still a significant margin of progress, particularly in the Walloon Region and Brussels, since there are very strong variations in the use of flexi-jobs: real success in Flanders but much more timid in Wallonia and Brussels. It should also be mentioned that flexi-jobs are, of course, accompanied by other mechanisms which continue to exist, such as the previous occasional work arrangements, but also the important provision concerning overtime - gross equal net - in the horeca sector. Personally, I would be prepared to extend this measure to as many sectors as possible, as it seems to me economically and financially desirable. Moreover, as far as the horeca sector is concerned, I have a whole series of figures at your disposal. We know that the horeca sector is experiencing – certainly with many nuances, variations depending on the situation – a slightly positive development. There are, for example, more than 79,000 work units in the horeca sector, which is the best result since the fourth quarter of 2014. And we know how strongly the sector has been affected, in particular, by the insecurity and attacks on our territory. I am in favour of extending flexi-jobs to sectors of trade where there is a real need. You know that flexi-jobs have been the subject of a number of legal disputes, some of which have not yet been resolved. Before extending the scheme to other sectors, I would like to see all the legal certainty on the one hand, that there is no longer any recourse under way and that the necessary social consultation is carried out with the social partners. I have a whole sheet of figures that you and your colleagues can consult.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u12	Minister, thank you. I note that you are in favour of extending flexi-jobs by means of a few checks, such as legal certainty and social consultation, because I think we will also have to convince certain organisations, such as the neutral union of the self-employed, which has been annoyed by the idea of their extension. They may be convinced by the figures you will provide them shortly to show that flexi-jobs provide a response to certain sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u13	Mr Minister, since you are close to the sector, you know as well as I do that the economic situation of farmers has not been fixed in the last two years, resulting in de facto a decrease in sales of equipment helping them to work, starting with tractors. Indeed, according to Fedagrim (Federation of Importers, Manufacturers and Distributors of Agricultural, Horticultural and Livestock Equipment), tractor sales have fallen by 20 per cent compared to 2014. The reason would be the particularly low price of milk and cereals. Therefore, it is a whole sector that is affected by farmers' nervousness to invest in new equipment. Minister, have you been aware of the difficulties faced by businesses that are directly dependent on the agricultural sector, particularly tractor vendors? Are they optimistic? Can they count on farmers' willingness to develop more technological, efficient and environmentally friendly tools? Is there a system that would encourage farmers to invest in such equipment, such as premiums or specific subsidies? Have you met any Fedagrim representatives? What did he get out of? Do you have these problems with your Walloon counterpart in order to find solutions? I am thinking in particular of the question of the investment premiums for which you could plead.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u14	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, the situation in the agricultural sector was extremely difficult in 2016, but it was already very difficult for some of her professionals. The price crisis, the Russian embargo and health problems have first affected the pig sector. Moreover, for other reasons, the dairy and meat sectors were also concerned from 2016. Secondly, with regard to crop production, the year was marked by unfavourable climatic conditions, so that cereal production also suffered. In the agricultural world, we sometimes want to forget some years. I remember the great drought of 1976, which was a particularly terrible year, but also of 2009, when farmers poured milk into the fields so desperate they wanted to hit the spirits. For different reasons, 2016 will also remain marked by a black stone in the memory of farmers, but also in the memory of analysts and in mine. As you mentioned, we know that everything that revolves around agriculture lives heavily on agriculture. It's obvious. Of course, the investment, the equipment and the marketing of machines are also at stake. I recently met with the officials of a large cooperative dairy which also sells ancillary equipment for farmers. The people of the cooperative told me: "The bond is almost mechanical. When the price of milk is low, our representatives almost don't sell this annex material." The same applies to supplies and investments in machinery. My services and I are in regular contact with the agricultural world, but also with the federations around it: the food federations and, in this case, the feed federation. The banking sector is an observer but also a privileged partner, as well as, more recently, Fedagrim, which represents the sector of suppliers of machinery and equipment to farmers. In its latest report, released in March 2017, Fedagrim points to the fact that high price volatility and uncertainties about production opportunities are increasingly worrying for potential farm owners and have an impact on investment. That is why I call for tools - such as a safety net - to be put in place in the context of the post-2020 CAP and crisis management, and for strengthening the position of producers in the food chain. Tools to preserve agricultural markets must also be put in place. It is in this sense that I have been very attentive to the report by Cees Veeman on the agricultural market task force, and to a number of his demands. I also met with the author or chairman of the group responsible for writing this report. As you can see, Fedagrim has announced a 15% decrease in machinery sales for 2016. The agricultural machinery sector therefore very much hopes for a recovery, even a timid one, in the sectors where it has already been registered. As we know, the major agricultural fairs in Ghent, Brussels or Libramont will be important moments for marketing and for meeting professionals, producers and businesses in this economic sector. Furthermore, you know that I rarely intervene in the skills of colleagues from other levels of power, but I must note, like all farmers, as well as the structures representative of the agricultural world, that the management of investment aid at Walloon regional level is really a disaster. Over the past two and a half years, delays have been accumulating. Every week, farmers contact me, even though they are aware that it is not my competence, at the federal level. They tell me: "It's not possible, my case, for the last year, has not been dealt with"; or: "Because I was not in the 60% allowed by the Walloon budget, my investment of 30 000 or 40 000 euros is now lost." There is really a very big problem here. I have written several times to my counterpart to report it to him. There was a demonstration in Libramont last year, and already before. The Walloon Federation of Agriculture (FWA) has intervened on several occasions. There have been improvements, I must say, but they are timid. It's a department that really needs a takeover. It really is about the survival of the farms. Of course there is investment. You are giving me the opportunity to make an appeal so that we can, in this regard, regroup ourselves. I am of course available to share some suggestions regarding the agricultural sector. I am also listening to our producer and farmer friends.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u15	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I agree with you on many points. I've been with you for three years. You have never given lessons about skills that are not yours. In this case, it seemed to me essential, at some point, to relay the problem of investment premiums in the Walloon Region, which is directly linked to this economic sector. Thank you for doing it. Nevertheless, the sector really depends on the various elements that you have mentioned, such as the Russian embargo and the drought. The economic benefits are immediate. In recent years, this sector has experienced successive crises and is not benefiting from a very innovative policy in the Walloon Region. We regret it. When this primary sector suffers, the secondary and tertiary sectors are affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Meryame Kitir's 17266 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u17	Madam President, Minister, on March 14, you were taking stock of the SME Financing Act, which dates back to 2013. The SPF Economy had just conducted a survey to assess the effectiveness of this legislation. As a result of the investigation, we realize that there are some failures in the law. Firstly, there was no influence on the overall amount of credit granted to SMEs. In addition, another important point is the fact that women remain discriminated against compared to men in the granting of credit. On the other hand, small companies have a poor understanding of the terms and conditions of their contracts. The overall average shows that at least one in ten companies find that the conditions proposed to them are not understandable. Finally, pre-contractual information, made mandatory by law, is still not regularly issued to applicants. In reaction, you mentioned useful avenues for improvement, even if you said at the same time that there were no "worrying irregularities". However, these half-tone results raise questions. Minister, what do you intend to do in practice to overcome the difficulties faced by SMEs in financing themselves in the report? Do you intend to take initiatives to reduce the gender discrimination described in the survey results? Do you intend to improve communication around pre-contractual information and the red tape? Finally, as you know, we have a great public financing tool to help our SMEs: the public bank – in any case, today – Belfius. Do you therefore intend to ask him, through your colleague, the Minister of Finance, to increase his percentage of loans granted to SMEs and to have a special role in financing our small and medium-sized enterprises?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u18	Mr Klaps, although you have just arrived, I give you the opportunity to put your question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u19	Madam President, that is very gallant of you. Minister, in the context of the evaluation of the SME Finance Act of 21 December 2013, you carried out a survey on ten thousand SMEs. The survey showed that 15% of small and medium-sized enterprises and 12% of start-ups face a refusal of credit. Credit refusals mainly occur in the catering, construction and retail sectors. The main reasons for the refusal relate to the weak financial situation of the SME or the start-up. The Law's evaluation report states that companies comparing multiple offers or turning to another bank after refusal are rare. For these reasons, you have already announced that you would like to improve the supervision of SMEs in the event of a refusal of a credit. You have also indicated your desire to improve the pre-contractual information. The evaluation report shows that only 56% of respondents received written explanations prior to the conclusion of a credit agreement, although this is a legal obligation. Given the results of the survey, I would like to know the following from you. What measures will you take to better guide SMEs in the event of a refusal of credit? When can we expect the measures? How will you ensure that SMEs are adequately informed before entering into a credit, as provided for by law? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u20	Mr Minister, in a press release dated 14 March 2017, you stated that the envisaged review of the Law of 21 December 2013 on various provisions on financing for small and medium-sized enterprises was carried out through a survey of ten thousand SMEs. The survey concludes that few worrying irregularities were identified. Of course, there are still a few worrying irregularities in the case of..... My questions are as follows. What disturbing irregularities did the survey reveal? Should the rules on credits in general and micro-credit in particular be adjusted on the basis of these irregularities? What other findings were found in the survey? In the same press release, you also announced that you would take initiatives to increase the credit ceiling for reinvestment fees from EUR 1 million to EUR 2 million. This initiative is part of the improvements you wish to make to the Law of 21 December 2013 on various provisions on financing for small and medium-sized enterprises. My questions in this connection are as follows. On the basis of what findings do you propose to increase the ceiling on the amount of credit in the case of reinvestment fees to EUR 2 million? What positive effects do you expect for SMEs in raising that ceiling? What stage is the proposal at now? What is the position of your competent fellow ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u21	Mr Janssen, the report you mentioned is the first evaluation of the Law of 21 December 2013 on the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises and the Code of Conduct between SMEs and the credit sector provided for in the law. I can confirm that, on the basis of the figures of the National Bank of Belgium, we can say that this law did not adversely affect the total amount of outstanding loans granted to SMEs. This was a fear originally expressed by the banking sector. I am pleased that the outstanding loans granted to companies remain at a historically high level. According to the figures of the National Bank of Belgium in January 2017, the perception of the credit barrier has never been so low for our SME debt holders. This amounts to 7.5 % for companies with less than 50 employees, while we were still at 27 % in January 2014. In addition, no worrying irregularity was found. However, the consultation of the various actors has revealed a number of possible improvements to the law. I hope that the texts amending the law of December 2013 can be approved before the end of 2017. In this sense, I would like, in particular, to improve the pre-contractual information and guidance of SMEs in the event of a refusal of credit. In this sense, I would like to provide information on the public and private guidance institutions, as well as on the tools to improve access to finance for SMEs. Secondly, I would like to reduce the administrative burden on micro-credits. The appropriations concerned are less than EUR 25 000. Thirdly, we must frame the use of a security or guarantee, allow securities and guarantees to be reviewed over time and inform SMEs about the existence of regional public guarantees. Fourthly, with regard to the reinvestment fee, I believe that it is useful to increase the ceiling on the amount of credit from EUR 1 million to EUR 2 million, to provide that, under certain conditions, no reinvestment fee is due for micro-credits and technical revisions, in particular for the competence of the FSMA and for the calculation methods. The law does not provide for retroactivity, but complaints can be lodged with Ombudsfin and the courts and courts to review the reinvestment fee downwards. As far as possible, work should be done in consultation with stakeholders, within the framework of the existing Code of Conduct, in particular on the modalities for the information to be communicated to SMEs, in order to avoid any excess of formal requirements that could adversely affect access to credit. The FSMA also drew attention to weaknesses in the application of Articles 9 and 10, § 1, 3°, which relate to the early repayment and the method of calculating the reinvestment compensation. However, the FSMA currently has no sanction and supervisory power over these provisions. I will therefore propose that the powers of the FSMA be extended. I am also concerned about the percentage of delivery of the explanatory note, the pre-contractual information, which would be only 56% according to the survey carried out among 10,000 companies and independents. This small percentage could be explained by the fact that some banks refer – you can sometimes understand – to their website for a number of explanatory elements. It is necessary to ensure, without falling into excess formalism, that companies are properly informed. I will meet with representatives of the sector in the very near future and give them my questions about this particular point. The code of conduct should, where appropriate, specify the manner in which the explanations should be given to undertakings. It also appears that the FSMA has sent letters of formal notice to certain banks to remedy the situation. I come back to the increase in the ceiling on reinvestment from EUR 1 million to EUR 2 million. This increase is part of a global change in the scope of the Law of December 2013, of which certain other aspects were requested by the banking sector. It seems to me useful to recall that, at present, there are still some conflicts concerning the concept of interest loans and the application or non-application of article 1907bis of the Civil Code. This controversy is in itself alien to the law of December 2013 but the increase in the ceiling from one to two million will have the effect of limiting the application of funding loss to a larger number of credits, without a long judicial battle to do so. Since it is not uncommon for an SME to have a credit of more than EUR 1 million, particularly in the context of appropriations, it seems consistent to me to raise this ceiling to limit the interest received by the lender in the event of an early repayment of the credit to six months. My colleagues in the government have not yet expressed their views on this point, which is still a proposal, but so far I have not received any negative feedback on the proposal, which, in a reasonably offensive way, defends the interests of our SMEs and contributes to improving legal certainty by avoiding lengthy and costly processes. Of course, I remain attentive to the situation of our entrepreneurs and I devote myself to taking measures to improve their situation. I have already had informal contact with Febelfin and Ombudsfin to make them aware of this particular problem. Mr Vanden Burre, the Umbudsfin will now incorporate gender-based analysis segmentation into these internal statistics. As is known, in terms of analysis, women appear to be more cautious in the management of assessment and risk. Of course, we need to see why these differences in the figures found today exist and why they are valid. It must also be possible, where appropriate, to respond in terms of communication and dialogue as part of the continuation of the plan for the promotion of women's entrepreneurship. I would like to conclude, Mr Vanden Burre, by welcoming your vigilance and your wish expressed with regard to the Belfius Bank, which I have met with representatives, as was the case with most of the other major financing institutions in our country. According to the figures provided by Belfius, long-term credit production for its business customers increased from €2.2 billion in 2015 to €2.7 billion in 2016, representing an increase of 23% over a year. Business customer satisfaction indications are also on the rise. The same applies to the percentage of appropriations accepted. I would also like to stress that there is a real offensive, whether at Belfius level or at the level of other banking agencies operating in the national territory, to offer a number of tools tailored to the financing needs, the credit needs of our companies and our independents, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u22	Minister, thank you for your long and detailed response, which has several informative and positive aspects. First of all, but I will look closely at the full report, when we meet with officials from SMEs and TPEs or people who start their business, it is the question of the guarantee they are talking about beyond the financial plans. Indeed, the banks invoke this aspect to justify their refusal to follow certain projects. Whether at the regional or federal level, systems that can offer one are therefore necessary and already exist. Secondly, the mobilisation of public savings also seems essential to us, with a view to financing SMEs and starters. I come to the dimension of the genre. It seems wise to start with a segmented analysis. This is a first step in providing specific answers to this issue which is of particular concern to us. That is why I consider it essential for Febelfin to disseminate figures in this area, if we are to take action. Finally, with regard to Belfius, I understand that the number of appropriations has increased significantly over the last two years. This indicator gives rather optimistic information. Therefore, the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises and EMTs should be examined more closely. Our conviction remains that Belfius, as a public tool, must fulfil its role in financing our economy and in anchoring our SMEs and TPEs in our regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed reply. I'll analyze it thoroughly and I'll get back to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u24	Minister, I agree with Mr Klaps. We will read the answer carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u25	Minister, on Monday, April 10, it was reported that Febrabel and the independent banking agents and brokers working under the Record Bank franchise were attacking ING in summary, after several legal challenges. Record Bank is a subsidiary of ING. As a reminder, on October 3, ING announced a comprehensive global restructuring plan. The Dutch bank will eventually close half its offices. Employment at Record Bank will a priori be heavily impacted. Yet its workers are in uncertainty, and ING does not provide them with the necessary information about this uncertain future. I have already asked the Minister of Economy about this last December in the context of the discussion of his policy note. I had indicated that an extension of the scope of the collective action mechanism to include SMEs and self-employed persons should enable them to take civil action against such practices. Kris Peeters replied that "the government agreement provides for an assessment of existing legislation" and that "extension to the self-employed and SMEs is by definition not excluded". This work was to be done in consultation with your cabinet, leading to the drafting of a bill. The FPS Economy was also expected to produce an evaluation report on the subject. Let me therefore ask you the following questions. What is the status of the government's work on expanding the collective action mechanism to include SMEs and independents? Is the expansion of the mechanism to include self-employed and SMEs still "not excluded"? Finally, what about the FPS Economy evaluation report on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u26	Madam President, I would like to thank the other Members for putting the question first. Mr. Minister, bank agents and independent office holders of Record Bank have brought the management of the parent company ING to justice. They did so through the federation of French-speaking insurance and banking intermediaries in Belgium, FEPRABEL. They consider that they were not sufficiently informed about ING's restructuring plans. By the way, I talked to Minister Peeters about it this morning. Apparently, the Renault Act makes it much more difficult to negotiate with the self-employed as long as the procedure is in place for the employees. It's a job for him to look at that procedure. That's what I agreed with him this morning. Regardless of whether a solution would be found for that particular case, the negotiations would be in full swing, and I am getting positive signals on this matter, the dossier is, of course, an example of better legal protection for self-employed and SMEs. This could be achieved by broadening the scope of the so-called class action. Through class action, several self-employed or SMEs can join forces to go to court together, which is simply impossible for them today. It is only possible for consumers. In the past, you have repeatedly indicated that you see an opportunity to extend the scope of the class action to self-employed persons and SMEs. In the meantime, your cabinet would investigate that possibility as well. The proposal is also open to the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs. According to the Hoge Raad, the self-employed and SMEs are, like consumers, in a weak position vis-à-vis the large companies with which they work. Given the importance of extending the class action, I would like to hear the following from you. What is the state of play regarding the extension of the class action to self-employed persons and SMEs? The FPS Economy would evaluate the Class Action Act. Are there any results? If yes, what does this indicate about that specific part, in particular the extension to self-employed persons and SMEs? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u27	Colleagues, I would first of all like to stress that our thinking exercise is obviously not focused on the cases of ING, Record Bank or other companies, but falls within the framework of a global reflection exercise and of an offensive march to defend SMEs, the self-employed and their numerous employees. The coalition agreement specifies the following: "The collective redress procedure, as provided for by the Law of 28 March 2014, will be reviewed two years after the publication of the law, which will consider whether, for example, the scope can be extended to include companies." Indeed, the legislator has preferred a gradual approach, announcing that the original scope of the law or its possible amendment could take place at a later date, following an evaluation. The evaluation report of the legislative act relating to the action for collective recovery envisaged in Book XVII, Title 2 of the Code of Economic Law, was finalized by the General Directorate for Economic Regulations of the FPS Economy. That report shall contain the answers and views of the various parties to which the problem relates. The High Council for Self-employed and SMEs advocates that the self-employed and SMEs should be able to benefit from a collective recovery claim with the same principles as those applied to consumers. I can confirm that I am currently working in good intelligence with my colleague, Minister Kris Peeters, on the possible extension of the collective redress action to SMEs. The principle of extending the class action to SMEs and self-employed is therefore not abandoned or excluded, on the contrary. However, before engaging, a large number of consultations, analyses and legal validations should be carried out. We must also measure all the impacts of these positive provisions for the beneficiaries, but also the indirect consequences that these provisions may have. It is in the context of this rigorous and serious work that we are currently working. And it will take a little longer before we can present you with a structured response as regards the confirmation of the principle and the implementation of the extension of this class action to SMEs and the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u28	Minister, thank you. I don't have much to replicate. Your answer is clear on the state of play. However, we would have liked to have an idea of the timetable, to know when the draft will be debated in the Committee on the Economy of Parliament. This project has already been announced for some time. Even if I agree with you that we must not make laws for concrete cases, we see, in practice, with concrete cases, that this would be extremely useful. The case of ING-Record Bank is an unfortunate example, which shows how interesting that would be. We will continue to support the efforts that can be made to achieve an extension of the class action for SMEs and self-employed. I think it's really necessary. I understand that tests have to be done. But at some point, we have to succeed. I hope that we will soon be able to know the precise deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u29	Mr President, I agree with Mr Vanden Burre on this point, in the sense that there is a need. ING-Record is indeed only one example. I know that the ERGO agents at some point also raised the question of whether they could not work with a class action if they did not get around in the negotiations with the principal. It was remodelled to hear that this could not be done, given the current state of the legislation. So there are a lot of arguments for doing this. I understand that this must indeed be done by means of a draft law and that this cannot be done overnight, but if we agree on the principle, then it should not take years and we can move forward as quickly as possible. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u30	As you know, Minister, employee share ownership is becoming increasingly successful in Europe. According to a study carried out by the European Federation of Employee Shareholdings (FEAS), the share held by employees in large enterprises has never been so high. This figure was 3.20% in 2016, compared to 2.48% in 2006. France, Austria and the United Kingdom are the leading figures in this field. On the other hand, the situation in Belgium is much less positive. Indeed, for ten years, it has been a real collapse. The share of employee shareholders in enterprises is less than 10%, while the European average is around 22%. The causes of this failure or of this finding of employee ownership in Belgium are multiple. It turns out that Belgian legislation is not adapted to the situation. In particular, the law of 22 May 2001 is said to be too rigid and worn out, according to the returns. Employee share ownership has many advantages in our view, in particular that of stimulating the participation of workers in the management of the company, involving them, motivating them more and thus guaranteeing a better social peace within companies. It is also, of course, a very useful financial tool in the event of the transmission of undertakings. If part of the company's or company's shareholding is owned by employees at the rate of 10, 15 or 20%, this facilitates the transmission of the company, which is currently a real problem for SMEs in our regions. In short, for us, it is a real tool for participation, more than a purely salary tool. Do you share our findings? How do you appreciate the situation of employee share ownership in Belgium today? Do you intend to take initiatives to reinvigorate employee ownership in Belgium? If so, within what time frame? What kind of measures are you considering? In particular, do you intend to simplify and adapt Belgian legislation in order to promote employee ownership?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u31	Madam President, Mr Vanden Burre, an employee shareholding is a mechanism that is indeed very interesting. It aims to bring the employees of a company into the company's capital on a sustainable basis. This is, as we know, a relatively old arrangement for reconciling the interests of capital and labour initiated in France by General de Gaulle. The immediate role of employee ownership is, of course, to create savings, a mechanism for participation and involvement of the employee in the company. Employee share ownership can also be seen as a protective mechanism in the event of an attempt to take external, possibly inamical, control of one company by another or, more commonly, by a third-party investor. While it is true that employee share ownership is developing in Europe, it should be made clear that it is mainly aimed at large companies. In 2014, according to the European Federation of Employee Shareholdings, 94% of all major European companies had employee shareholdings. To my knowledge, however, there are no precise figures on employee ownership in other types of enterprises, such as SMEs. Several hearings have been held in the European Parliament in recent years concerning employee ownership. And the European Economic and Social Committee issued an own-initiative opinion in 2010 on the financial participation of workers in Europe in order to create a European initiative, which has so far been unsuccessful, despite the fact that the subject has already been the subject of repeated declarations of intent at European level since 1992. In Belgium, there are many legal but mainly tax schemes to encourage companies to bring their employees into their capital on a sustainable basis: stock purchase plans, share allocations, stock options, etc. It was first by law of 28 December 1983 that a mechanism for the financial participation of employees was introduced in Belgian law. It establishes a tax mechanism to encourage the ownership of company staff. The tax incentive is the deduction of income subject to taxation of individuals from the amounts spent by the taxpayer on the acquisition of shares of the company in which the taxpayer is employed as an employee, or of the company in which the company in which the taxpayer is employed is considered to be a subsidiary or a sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-sector. I must also refer you to the law of 27 December 1984 which establishes a preferential tax regime for stock options. This mechanism allows the worker to acquire shares of the company employing them within a certain period of time and at a certain price – with an advantage here too. These schemes were aimed at individual workers by providing them with certain tax incentives designed as useful levers. Apart from them, there is no general legal framework for taking into account the participation of workers in its collective dimension. In the non-participating years, adjustments were introduced into company law with a view to also promoting the ownership of workers. Measures are thus being taken to promote the acquisition of shares by employees. The Act of 18 July 1991 amends the Commercial Companies Act and provides for provisions in this regard. I would also like to refer briefly to the Act of 22 May 2001 on the participation of workers. In short, these schemes have been in place for about 30 years - especially for the benefit of larger companies, but not SMEs. My attention has been drawn, but above all mobilized by this possibility of participation through employee share ownership in the smallest enterprises. I have conducted numerous consultations, in particular with the Interprofessional Federations representing SMEs, but also with the European Federation of Employee Shareholders. It is clear from this that Belgian measures are not sufficiently adapted, particularly as regards SMEs. These schemes are complex – a bit like employer groups – and sometimes fall within the scope of tax engineering because of too rigid a legislative framework. Therefore, my goal is to change all this. In order to do this, I have asked my administration for a statistical and comparative study which it will have to transmit to me quickly, i.e. in the fall. The next step will be to adapt and improve the devices. A contract has now been awarded through the SPF Economy. As soon as the conclusions and proposals have been brought to my attention, I will present several texts to the government and, of course, to Parliament. I have all these references at your disposal, because they seem interesting to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u32	Minister, thank you for this long and detailed answer. This is quite interesting and I will not fail to examine it in detail. It is also a subject on which we, environmentalists, are working because it is of particular interest to us. As you said, our main objective is not specifically stock options, action plans in large multinationals. You have repeated it quite well: it already exists in Belgium. That is not what interests us in this context. It is really a matter of adapting this type of measure (employee share ownership) to unlisted companies and thus, de facto, focusing on SMEs and micro-enterprises (SMEs), in order to better involve and motivate workers. As you said, and this is very important in our thinking, it would be a bulwark against possible hostile buy-back intentions coming from outside. All of this is reflected in our goals and intentions. It would interest me to have access to the study you will be ordering for the fall of 2017. I believe that it is time to put in place mechanisms relating to employee share ownership for our SMEs and self-employed people that go beyond the remuneration of multinational and publicly traded groups. I think it's really important. We are also working on it. We will certainly come back very soon on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u33	Madam President, Minister, the internationalisation of SMEs is an objective strongly highlighted in the federal SME plan of 25 February 2015. Internationalisation is a source of growth for the economy in general and for individual SMEs. The European Commission established the SME Envoys Network in 2011, in which Member States can exchange good practice on the internationalisation of companies at European level. In addition, you proposed to promote cooperation between the different regions of the country and the Belgian members of the SME Envoys Network on the internationalisation of SMEs. In this way, SMEs could expand their knowledge of internationalisation, both in conversation with European colleagues and with national partners. Has the thinking exercise already taken place between the Belgian members of the SME Envoys Network and the regional organisations? What feedback was made to the other Member States in the SME Envoys Network? Can you give examples of good practices that have been exchanged here? I come to my second question. In a press release dated 20 June 2016, you advocate, as one of the key axes through which the internationalisation of SMEs is to be achieved, a registration and publication of the export performance of SMEs. This figure would then be integrated into the key indicators for the barometer of SMEs and the self-employed. Has the registration of the export performance of Belgian SMEs already started? Were SMEs informed of the objective behind measuring these performances? What were the figures from the registration of export performance? Can you draw any conclusions from the figures collected? I come to my third question. In a press release dated 20 June 2016, you are one of the key axes through which the internationalisation of SMEs is to be achieved, which is a tax incentive for the recruitment of an export expert from SMEs. The exporting expert could be recruited by SMEs with a partial exemption from pre-tax for a period of 18 months. Companies could rely on their expertise in questions about the international development of their business operations. The exact implementation of this measure was not yet clear in 2016. For example, it was not clear which companies would be chosen as the target audience for this incentive. Were any concrete steps taken towards a tax incentive for companies recruiting an export expert? If so, is there at present more clarity about the companies that would like to use it? Can we expect a draft law in this respect? If so, when? In the same press release of 20 June 2016, one of the key axes through which the internationalisation of SMEs is to be achieved is a road show, with the aim of making the export support instruments better known to SMEs. The road shows would start at the beginning of this year. Were the road shows launched for SMEs? If so, how many SMEs have been reached in the meantime? What response has been received? Then I come to my last question. The Unified Patent Court provides a unified patent court in the 25 signatory Member States of the Agreement. With a view to facilitating access for SMEs to the European patent and more effective protection of this patent, you announced on 20 June 2016 that a local branch of the Unified Patent Court would be created in Brussels. How is the Unified Patent Court developing? Is there still any thought of a local Brussels branch of this court? When are these institutions going to work? How will Belgian companies be informed of the existence of this court?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u34	Madam President, Minister, in June 2016, you presented various measures to support and stimulate the export of SMEs. One of the six lines of action was cooperation with federated entities to support the exchange of good practice in the internationalisation of SMEs. In this context, you pointed out that a coordinated reflection with your regional counterparts would be carried out on support for internationalisation. Following a question from my colleague Mrs Simonet on 21 March in the Walloon Parliament, Mr Marcourt, Minister of Economy, Innovation and Digital Industry in the Walloon Region, regretted that, since October 2016, your firm has not returned to AWEX and the other agencies concerned in order to provide them with more details on how you are considering the effective implementation of this measure and, on the other hand, to consider with them the possibilities of working in synergy. As an illustration, and with regard to this support for internationalisation, you announced a coordinated reflection with the Regions following an analysis of good practice, via a network at European level. However, it seems that the Walloon Region is currently awaiting follow-up following the announcement of your willingness to promote cooperation with the federated entities; we are convinced that any work in synergy could only be beneficial to our companies. It is of course important to ensure the full coherence of policies. Minister, where are you in cooperation with the federated entities to support and stimulate SME exports? What is the status of the coordinated reflection mentioned in June 2016? Is a working group set up? When are you going to provide more details about the actions you are considering or taking? What are these measures? I would like to ask you to update your answer, since my question was tabled in March.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I will split my answer into a number of elements: on the one hand, I will discuss the federal government's cooperation with the European Member States and, on the other, cooperation with the federated entities on the internationalisation of SMEs. As you know, I am always extremely committed to the collaboration dimension, especially when it comes to working with the federated entities, with the strictest respect for each other's skills. As I indicated in the presentation of the measures, in June 2016, the cooperation between the different levels of power is activated and stimulated through the network of Envoyed EMS. It is therefore not envisaged, as far as I am concerned, to create a new structure of collaboration or a new organisation of collaboration between my firm and the representatives of the regional agencies. However, and I am at your disposal in this regard, I am pleased to note everyone's interest and expectations, particularly with regard to AWEX. I will ask my administration to ensure that all of the work is fully integrated and carried out within the context of the Envoyed EMS network. This network, set up by the European Commission, makes it possible to disseminate good practices from the different Member States and to highlight the difficulties facing our SMEs. The federal government and the Länder work in a coordinated way within this network to formulate proposals for actions to be developed as a priority for the introduction of a more efficient European SME policy. The SME Envoys Network has recently discussed issues such as clusters, patents, administrative simplification, cross-border mobility, recognition of professional qualifications and funding, all of which relate to the internationalisation of our SMEs. All these questions and points were discussed with the Regions and have been the subject of reflections and exchanges of good practice. For example, SME Envoys Network set up a temporary technical expert group in 2016 on risk capital financing and cross-border investment. Good practice is all on the European Commission's DG GROWTH website and on the SME Envoys Network website. Allow me to give you two more particularly educational examples of Member States that can inspire the different levels of government, with full respect for their respective competences. The Finnish example – Finnvera – is a financing structure specialising in export credit, which is particularly highlighted at European level. The Irish example Enterprise Ireland is also a particularly illustrative example. The existing exchange at international level enables all regional, Belgian, international and other good practices to be implemented. With regard to the figures on the export performance of Belgian SMEs, I can inform you that the FPS Economy is currently working with the National Bank of Belgium to exploit the export data of SMEs. The aim of the cooperation is to fill the statistical gap at national level and to stimulate exports by SMEs. The result of that work should enable the evolution of the number of exporting SMEs to be published, divided according to different criteria, such as the sales destination and the value of the merchandise. The statistics will be disseminated in the (...) version of the Board Table of SMEs and independent entrepreneurs, the publication of which is planned for the end of 2017. The third question concerned a tax incentive for SMEs operating more internationally. In presenting the FPS Economy study on the internationalisation of SMEs, I proposed a draft tax incentive for SMEs that would decide to recruit an export expert. The intention would be to grant a partial exemption from the payment of pre-tax for a maximum period of 18 months to SMEs recruiting such an expert without frontiers. The advantage would be targeted at primo exporting SMEs, which in other words export less than three years. However, the draft is still on hold, as it is an integral part of the global reflection on corporate tax reform. So I cannot give you any further information on the subject at this stage. As a reminder, the measure in question, if it comes to it, will, of course, be in line with the rules of the European Union on state aid and the division of powers between the federal government and the federated entities. The fourth question concerned a road show on the financing of SMEs. With regard to the announced road show, my services have indeed agreed to work with Delcredere to make SMEs aware of the instruments specifically intended for them. The new activities of Credendo-Delcredere are not sufficiently known to SMEs. For example, I mention the SME pool, buyer credit, refinancing, supplier credits, etc. SMEs tend to think that Delcredere is only aimed at large companies, while 80% of Delcredere's new customers are currently SMEs. The communication campaign on measures to finance SMEs was postponed until the end of 2017 and even early 2018 in order to be able to propose the traditional financing, including the assessment of the Finance Act, alternative financing, including the measures taken by the SME tax shelter, which was fully launched in February, and the financing related to the export activities at the same time. It was therefore decided to move that campaign to make it as comprehensive as possible for our SME debt holders. Finally, there is the introduction of the patent with the unitary effect of the Unified Patent Court. The introduction of the patent with unitary effect and the Unified Patent Court is indeed a government priority to promote innovation in Europe and Belgium. This introduction is also reflected in the Government's SME plan to facilitate access for Belgian SMEs to the protection of their innovations at European level. The European Patent Office is ready, legally, technically and operationally, to issue the first patent with unitary effect as soon as the Unified Patent Court Convention enters into force. According to the latest estimates of the Preparatory Committee, that Convention should enter into force provisionally at the end of the first semester of 2017. The full entry into force is scheduled for the end of 2017, so that the Unified Patent Court will be operational on that date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u36	Minister, this is a large committee, with a large number of ministers, and you are one of the ministers that we are actually least inviting. As a result, we sometimes have the idea that little is being done. I note, however, that you are dealing with a great many issues and that you can give clear answers to all questions. I note that there are a lot of things in the pipeline and that a lot of new measures will come into force by the end of 2017, beginning of 2018. We will remind you to introduce them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u37	Minister, your answer was quite long. I take note of that today. This will allow me to reread it to go back to some of the elements, as some are at the project stage. I would like more information on some issues, including more details on collaboration with federated entities. I'll come back with written questions, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u38	Mr President, at the request of Mr de Lamotte, I propose that we first deal with item 56 on the agenda. Those are the combined questions. Mr de Lamotte and Mr de Lamotte 18173 by Mrs Smaers. However, Mrs Smaers could not be present, her question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u39	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you to my colleague, Mr Janssen, who has agreed to change two questions. Minister, in March 2017, the Royal Orders enshrine the tax regime for the collaborative economy and the conditions for the accreditation of online platforms came into force. The legislative framework for the collaborative economy adopted in July 2016 has therefore become effective. In the discussions leading up to the adoption of this scheme, in June 2016, opposition members and organisations representing the middle classes had expressed concern about independent status as a complementary measure. Indeed, the fear was that discrimination and unfair competition problems would persist depending on whether or not service providers use electronic platforms. In essence, providers of the same service are not subject to the same financial and administrative constraints because they use different channels of communication. As a first step, the government felt that "the proposed provisions were the best possible solution" and that "it was not unjustified discrimination". Given, however, the many reactions, you have committed yourself to preparing additional measures in favour of the self-employed as a complement, in order to avoid any form of unfair competition. My question is simple: do you always intend to take measures to ensure the equality of service providers? If so, what kind of measures are you considering? Are these measures additional or complementary to those already in place? How long would these measures take?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u40	Mr. Member, thank you. I had also gathered some answers to Mrs Smaers' attention. If there are additional elements, let's take advantage of them together, but some elements may be less directly intended for you. Like you, I can assure you that I am fully aware of the issues involved in the collaborative economy in relation to the activities deployed as an independent. As you know, the measures that the government has implemented in the collaborative economy must meet fairly strict conditions. These services must be provided by an individual to another individual through a digital platform that organizes exchanges between supply and demand, approved or organised by the public authority. The level of revenue obtained in return for these services is limited to €5,100, indexed amount from the 2018 tax year, 2017 revenue. As such, services must therefore be provided outside the framework of a professional activity and income must be effectively limited. In order for the new regime to enter into force, the platforms must first have been approved by the Finance FPS. To this end, a regulatory framework was put in place in January of this year. The procedure is under way. I can see with you that the conditions are not yet present. It is a little too early for an evaluation to be conducted. A decree of 12 January 2007 laid down the conditions to be met by the electronic platforms of the collaborative economy. The Royal Decree also specifies what must be included in the forms to be drawn up by the person liable for the professional discount. The new tax system applies only to income paid by platforms from the date of approval. This means that those who earn this income through the approved platforms will have to mention this income, for the first time in the ad hoc section of their tax return for the 2018 tax year, 2017 income. These strict rules have been put in place in order to encourage the emergence of new independent professionals, in a second stage, while ensuring a fair framework compared to existing entrepreneurs, so as to avoid any form of unfair competition against professionals, while taking into account the emergence of new forms of activities, organisations of society or relations between people. The administrations, INASTI and SPF Finance are in contact in order to prepare the arrangements for the transfer of the share of the flat-rate levy for the overall financial management of the self-employed. As Minister of Independents, I would of course like to pay particular attention to the establishment of a clear level playing field for all stakeholders. That is why the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers is currently considering, at my request, the effects of the collaborative economy on the social status of self-employed persons as a whole. The examination is therefore not limited to the status of the self-employed on a supplementary basis. The issues that you and your colleague have identified will be well examined. As soon as the conclusions are communicated to me, I will share them as usual, with Parliament and especially with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u41	Minister, thank you. I really want to stress the urgency of the process. The collaborative economy has gone beyond its launch phase. Equality of service providers is an important issue. I am therefore attentive to what is being undertaken and will follow closely what is being put in place, including the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u42	Mr Minister, on Monday, 6 March 2017, you, together with your 27 European Agriculture Ministers, discussed the future of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) after 2020, on the basis of a background paper drawn up by the Maltese Presidency of the European Union. The future is beginning to be written. Under the cooperation agreements on the representation of Belgium in European bodies, positions on agricultural matters are prepared by the Regions and expressed to the European Council by you, as spokesperson. In your public statements to the press and European partners, however, you sometimes have the unfortunate tendency – and I blame you – to speak to the first person of the singular instead of simply speaking out for Belgium. You said a year ago that "the CAP must be able to cope with major challenges such as food production (in quantity and quality). We want agriculture that has territorial, environmental, energy, climate and employment concerns." In your press release of 6 March 2017, which gave an account of the meeting of the same day, there was no mention of these issues among the points on which the States insisted with the European Commission, whereas on the very day of your meeting, more than a hundred civil society organisations called for a radical reform of the CAP in a statement entitled "A good diet, a good agriculture: Now!" The signatories denounce a system that favours agro-industry at the expense of organic and agro-ecological alternatives, the environment, animal welfare and health. Minister, how do you see your role as the spokesperson for the Regions in the European bodies? What role do you have in communicating the Belgian and European agenda to the press? Why is there no mention of the importance of the new common agricultural policy taking more account of the concepts of quality (in terms of quantity), in terms of health, nutrition, environmental impact, respect for working conditions for farmers and farm workers? Have you insisted at the European Council on this dimension? What are the positions of other countries? What vision do you hold with our European partners? France had submitted a written contribution on the post-2020 CAP in May 2016. This global paper described the major issues and guidelines that France will be able to defend. Can you present us with a vision articulated with the federated entities for Belgium? What are the next steps in defining the CAP for you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u43	Thank you very much, Mr de Lamotte. It is, of course, always in full transparency that I am working with Parliament. However, in order to respond in a structured way to certain elements of your questions, I would need an hour to deploy, in detail, my vision and conviction regarding the future of the foster function in general, of the foster function in Europe, in particular of the markets, and of the organisation of the CAP and of Europe. I spend a lot of time studying some of the research. I met today with representatives of an Italian university. I participated in the work of FAO. I think that's one of the major stakes in our society. That would require a real big debate. I am quite available to conduct it comprehensively, whenever you wish, in accordance with each other's skills. I am listening and available to answer questions about my vision. Since the beginning of my term of office, I have been attending European meetings assiduously. In matters which fall within the competence of the regions, I take on the role of spokesperson defined by the cooperation protocol which unites our Belgian institutions. I have to say, things are going well. In the course of two and a half years, my colleagues have not raised any difficulties or reproaches. I think it is very important that we can agree with each other if we want to plead with conviction at European level. To agree at Belgian level is the prerequisite for trying to convince the other European states of the validity of our vision and our conviction. But as far as the definition and content of the CAP are concerned, you are aware that this is a regional competence which I respect, of course, fully. As you also know, there are other areas where skills are of a different nature at European level. Like other colleagues, I am really convinced that the future CAP will have to offer consumers quality food products, with due respect for the actors in the food chain, to value organic production and short circuits. I am also convinced that we should not oppose the different forms of production, the conventional, on the one hand, and the other forms of production (bio, localisation, etc.).), on the other hand. You are asking me what vision I am defending with our European partners. As you rightly point out, the outgoing French Minister of Agriculture, Stéphane Le Foll, has been very proactive in the preparation of this post-PAC work. I have to say that we have had a close relationship. I was able to establish a personal relationship with Stéphane Le Foll. This has enabled us to move forward on a number of issues. I am committed to and wish to carry out the strategic, discreet role of a servant of the interests of agriculture and an active spokesperson for regional positions. As far as the future CAP is concerned, among the elements of conviction which the Regions wished to stress is, of course, the maintenance of the budget. This is an extraordinarily important issue, Mr de Lamotte, particularly in view of the Brexit and the other budgetary needs of the CAP. Maintaining the CAP budget at European level will be a major challenge. I can tell you that all the forces, all the strategic finesses and all the drops of sweat and conviction that can be shed in this fight will be indispensable to this one. We also agree on the need for simplification. The CAP is complex, as we know, especially in some of its aspects, such as greening and so on. The simplification effort is called for; of course it remains to be implemented. There are nuances between Flanders and Wallonia on the possible guarantors that mark the markets. On the side of Joke Schauvliege, the trend is more market and export. At the Walloon level, on the side of René Collin, the speech focuses more on the postponement of quotas and the closure of certain elements of the market. That's all the Belgian alchemy! This is first and foremost the dialogue between the regions themselves! It would also be very important if I could contribute to the adoption of a common position so that we can have a common view of the markets. We also know the importance of young farmers. It is also a uniting element. There are many other points, but in the time available to me, these are those which I would like to stress in the convictions, priorities and positions expressed by the Regions! I can give you details of the next steps in the CAP. It is a real happiness for me to follow each of these steps. Where are we? In the popular consultation phase, as you know! It ended at the end of May 2016. If I am not mistaken, there have been just over 322,000 contributions, exactly 322,900, at European level. 9.3% of these came from the agricultural sector and others expressed themselves, of course. The results are important. We must be present everywhere, in the European Parliament, in debates, in informal meetings with ministers, in work with Commissioners. I met Commissioner Andriotakis with Maggie De Block a few days ago. We have discussed important issues from a health point of view. We have established a relationship with Phil Hogan, which allows some of our companies to be with him in Canada. It is all informal work which we cannot see and which I do not wish to see. All this work that serves our producers, farmers and our agri-food industry, as well as, of course, the positions defended, seem indispensable to me. I have been appointed to be a hardworking and determined worker in the agricultural sector. Believe me, I am trying to take my mission totally to heart, with full respect for regional expertise. Therefore, do not miss the meeting of 7 July, which will consist of the presentation of the results of the broad European consultation. It will also discuss the CAP post-2020. The broad guidelines are expected by November. I now come to the Estonian Presidency. Before a change of European presidency, we are always trying to establish informal contacts with a view to exercising a ministry of influence. It is with this in mind that I will be present in Malta in a few days' time. If other initiatives need to be taken, do not hesitate to report it to me. We are well aware that the agricultural sector is facing serious crises: pork - even if we are temporarily out of it - milk - still fragile today - and the major issues of sugar and beef production. If you think that I can do more for the Regions, producers, farmers and employment in the agricultural sector, I stand at your disposal. I would point out that 90 000 direct and 148 000 indirect jobs are concerned in the agri-food sector and 72 000 in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u44	Minister, I take note of your answer. You define yourself as a "working bee." You know well that in this reign there are workers. I will, of course, pay attention to your report to the wishes expressed by the federated entities in order to move forward in this area. I therefore hope that you will be their spokesperson by applying a coherent policy. I therefore take note of your statements, but I will come back to you to address the question of the beacons to be installed. You recalled the importance of the issues in five or six areas. We will come back to that very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u45	Minister, the regulatory impact analysis assesses the impact that new regulation will have on the sustainable development of the country. One of the tests within the regulatory impact analysis concerns the analysis of the impact of new regulation on SMEs. In the SME plan, the federal government undertakes to examine whether the SME test, as used in the regulatory impact analysis, includes all components of the European SME test. Minister, was the examination of the conformity of the national SME test with the European SME test carried out? What were the findings of this investigation? Was new components added to the SME test within the RIA based on the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u46	My administration has reviewed the similarities between the SME test in the regulatory impact analysis and the European SME test applied by the Commission in the context of the Impact Assessments. The European impact analysis and, in the event of enlargement, the SME component test shall be carried out in a decentralised manner on the basis of relatively flexible guidelines. It is not an exercise based on a standardised scheme that is applied systematically. Therefore, the criteria for the analysis may differ significantly from the SME test to the SME test. In the Belgian SME test, the regulatory author in question 10.5 should indicate the measures taken to mitigate or compensate the negative impact on SMEs. The following examples of mitigating measures are given: total or partial exemptions, tax reductions, information campaigns, longer or less long transitional periods. Having said that, together with my colleague, in charge of administrative simplification, I am looking for the best way to improve the efficiency of the SME test. A proposal on this subject will be made in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u48	Minister, I would like to make a proposal. I am prepared to turn my next questions into written questions if you can give me the answers. [[Assent]] I'd like to ask them, too, with all due respect because you want to stay here. But since I'm the only one here, it would be easier for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic657x.u49	Questions Nos 17458, 17459 and 17553 by Mr Janssen will be converted into written questions. The combined questions Nos 17611 by Mr Janssen and 17655 by Mrs Smaers are converted into written questions. Questions Nos 17612, 17613 and 17614 by Mr Janssen will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre's 17794 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 18194 by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne's 18208 was postponed. Thank you for being here for the questions, Mr Janssen and Mr Minister.
