ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask my question in response to a rather surprising report published in the summer by the Vlaanderenwerk Vlaanderen. This shows that people who submit a subsequent application for asylum, i.e. who refuse the first, immediately and systematically, are withdrawn from the asylum shelter, are considered until the application is considered. If the asylum procedures are clearly abused, the right to reception will indeed lapse. But this evaluation must be done individually and motivated individually. After all, it is not the case that every multiple application for asylum, i.e. when someone submits a second application for asylum on the basis of any new elements, there is de facto abuse. After all, four of the ten multiple consecutive asylum applications are being considered by you. There is therefore no abuse in four out of ten cases. Besides, there are also people who eventually get protection, including families with children. Putting these people out of asylum until their second asylum application is considered, which happens in many cases, that is not possible. One cannot just put people out on the street and deny any asylum shelter. This must be assessed individually, with the best interests of the child first. It is therefore not possible for such practice to be applied systematically. That is why I have a number of questions. How long has this practice been going on and what is the legal basis for this policy? How many people were put out in this way in 2016? How many of them were finally admitted to asylum care because their file was considered? How many were eventually recognised as refugees or subsidiaryly protected? How much time was on average between the submission of a subsequent asylum application and the decision on its consideration in 2016? Finally, we agree on the need to prevent abuse, but I would ask you to stop this practice and ensure that, in future, individual judgements are made and families with children are not thrown out of the street, pending consideration of their next asylum application. The figures show that this is done on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u2	Mr President, before replying to this question, I would like to refer to the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u3	Mr De Vriendt, please answer Mr De Vriendt's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u4	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, according to Article 4, the Reception Act allows Fedasil not to grant reception in the case of a multiple asylum application until the CGVS has taken the decision to consider it. The law states that this can only be done by taking a reasoned decision. Fedasil motivates with a reference to the article in the law. I would point out that this situation has always existed. Decisions were also taken, among other things, to restrict material aid following a multiple application for asylum, since this possibility was provided for by law. What various organisations advocate, but what we do not want to introduce, is a systematic right of reception for all multiple asylum seekers. In 2017, three of the four multiple asylum applications were not considered by the CGVS, as no new elements were included in the file. Systematic reception in the case of multiple-entry asylum applications completes the collection system. We must therefore avoid applying for asylum only in order to extend the right of reception. To your second question I can answer that Fedasil does not have the information requested. I come to your third question. Between the submission of a multiple asylum application and the decision of the CGVS to consider this application, an average of 68,7, i.e. almost 69 calendar days, were in 2016. So I'm talking calendar days, not working days. As regards your last question, I discussed the issue with the Director-General of Fedasil, Mr Luxen, as promised in my answer to a question from you and Mrs Lanjri, a few months ago. In order to meet the requirements of the statement of reasons, a more individualised decision was opted for when material aid is limited after a multiple asylum application. This decision is now being followed by the administration for a week or two.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, you are actually saying that the average term is 69 days. Asylum applicants, including families with children, may be thrown out during that period after having submitted a second application for asylum. You also say that the situation is not yet being assessed individually, for example when it comes to families with children. I would ask you to stop such a practice and to make individual assessments. After all, in four out of ten cases...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u6	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u7	Yes, but a more individualised motivation, what you will do, is not yet the same as saying that in a number of cases we will allow these people to still receive care. Is the intention not to systematically expel these people from the asylum shelter, but to allow them to receive shelter in individual cases, depending on the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u8	It happens. Vulnerability shall be taken into account. The family situation is an element that can be taken into account. That's what used to happen. It is not the case that multiple asylum applicants were never given reception during the period between the multiple application and the consideration, which was applied in certain cases. This practice is maintained and for two weeks now we have a more individualised justification why reception is refused or allowed. As I promised last time, we are working on it. We have already had a lot of meetings on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u9	The reports on refugee work show that families with children are still being thrown out after a multiple asylum application. I tell you that this cannot be done, because in four out of ten cases there is no abuse. There is therefore a risk that families with children who in no way abuse the procedure will still be thrown out simply because they are applying for a second asylum. I would ask you to take a close look at this, because we cannot do this. The asylum procedure must be followed, and if the verdict is no at the end, then of course there will be a return for those involved, but in the meantime reception is necessary. That is a fundamental condition of a humane policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u10	Do you always want to provide care for all multiple asylum applications from families with children? Is that what you're suggesting? I don't quite understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u11	The NGO talks about reports showing that vulnerable people are being thrown out. Well, if a multiple asylum application is about vulnerable people, then they are not put out on the street. That's my message. Reports show that vulnerable people, families with children are thrown out without an alternative. It can't be. That is the clear message of my group to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, in the context of the tasks of the municipalities in the asylum and migration policy, I am called upon - in particular, in my role as civil registry officer - by the multiplication of instructions, notes, forms and other documents for internal use which the Office of Foreigners publishes and makes available to municipal agents via the GEMCOM application. I am not particularly concerned about their number, but about their scope, from various points of view. This concern seems to be relayed by some services and associations. Indeed, ADDE states in its June 2017 newsletter: "It is authorized for the administration to communicate by circular to explain the law to the authorities responsible for its application. It cannot use this method of communication to adopt and impose new rules. For, to be valid, a regulatory text must be taken by a competent author-legislator, king, minister, etc. and be accompanied by a series of formalities, including consultation of the Legislative Section of the Council of State and an official publication." It therefore appears that some publications go beyond the powers conferred on the communes and diminish the rights of citizens. For example, I would like to quote the publication on self-employed citizens of the European Union, dated 28 October 2016, as well as an old version of the note entitled "Children born in Belgium of non-Belgian parents", as amended on 31 August 2017, in its content, but not in its form. Mr Franken, what is your position on this type of publication? Does she receive an instruction from you? In the future, should we not impose a more appropriate form on your administration in accordance with our hierarchy of standards?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u13	Firstly, GEMCOM is a tool generally highly appreciated by the municipal agents in charge of managing the stay of the foreign population. It is developed by the Office of Foreigners as part of its mission to support the services of foreigners and the population, who have a constant need for concrete answers to the questions asked at the counters. The information published on GEMCOM has the merit of putting a complex and constantly evolving regulation within the reach of the communal agents who do not always have the opportunity to participate in a training or the time to immerse themselves in the texts. They also have the merit of ensuring consistency in the application of the regulations on foreigners by municipalities. The purpose of these publications is not to legislate in place of the legislator. This note was drafted by the Office of Foreigners for several reasons, including a strong demand from the municipalities for a legal vacuum, the lack of clear lines, different practices updated during contacts between the Office and the communes and the sad finding that the children were instrumentalised by a parent seeking a residence permit. Since 1 August, however, education has been amended in the following way: the parent(s) are not obliged/more obliged to apply for family reunification with the mayor of the child's principal place of residence, whether the child is a citizen of the Union or a third-country national. At the request of the parent, the mayor or his delegate shall draw up a certificate of identity attesting that the child born in Belgium is legally resident in Belgium. As I have told you, GEMCOM is part of the support mission of the Office of Foreigners to the communes. Its objective is in no way to allow my administration to legislate in place of the legislator or to encroach on communal powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u14	Mr Franken, there was no question of questioning the GEMCOM tool, which is useful and appreciated. My concern is that we are talking about regulation becoming increasingly complex, that we are making available to agents not always trained, that do not always interpret it correctly or that sometimes overinterpret it, which can lead to a reduction in citizens' rights. So you're talking about a circular and you're saying there's a legal vacuum. This generates a sub-question that I will not ask now, because this is not our way of working!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u15	Secretary of State, on 15 June 2017 the annual report of the Federal Centre for Migration (Myria) was published. There appears to be a sharp decline in asylum applications in Belgium between 2015 and 2016. Last year, 14,670 people filed a first asylum application in Belgium, a 63% decrease compared to 2015, when the number of applications for protection had reached a significant peak (39,064), but without breaking the record set in 2000 and fortunately not yet exceeded since (46,855), it is clear from this report. These figures are the direct result of the European decision to close the Balkan route and the agreement with Turkey on the relocation of refugees in March 2016. Mr Secretary of State, in the event that the agreement between the European Union and Turkey is broken – given that we know how difficult relations are and the internal situation is even more difficult – and that a new influx of refugees is coming, do you still have the technical capacity to accommodate them? Do you have any information that this agreement could be called into question? It is known that Mr Erdoğan does not accept the criticisms addressed to him. As the roads of the Balkans and Turkey are closed, Libya remains the road through the Mediterranean. What are the other ways, perhaps less publicized, that refugees take? I have just read today that Algeria is in the process of adopting a very reserved attitude towards refugees from sub-Saharan Africa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u16	Mr Flahaux, to date, the occupancy rate of the reception network allows us to cope with a measured increase in the number of arrivals in the network. Fedasil began identifying and conventionalizing 5,000 operational buffers. Thanks to this ongoing action, we will improve the flexibility of our host network. Since the establishment of the EU-Turkey agreement, the number of people arriving in Greece from Turkey has decreased from several thousand per day to about 50 per day in recent months. At the same time, the number of deaths on this road has also decreased dramatically. There is no indication at this time that the agreement will no longer be respected. Both sides, the European Union and Turkey, are loyal to the commitments made and there is no indication that this would no longer be the case in the near future. Moreover, the sharp decline in irregular flows through Greece is not only linked to the agreement between the Union and Turkey; the closure of the Balkan road also plays an important role. At present, the largest influx to the European Union comes from Italy. In consultation with my European colleagues, I am therefore looking for solutions by analogy with the declaration between the European Union and Turkey, to put a stop to this massive influx of mainly economic migrants as soon as possible. This approach seems to produce results. The number of arrivals in Italy was more than 23 000 in June and less than 4 000 in August. Of course, we continue to monitor closely the situation at the external borders of the European Union, from north to south and from east to west. We will respond appropriately as soon as a new illegal migration route emerges.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u17	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. Unfortunately, it is clear, and you are just as aware of it as I am, that it is often not only economic but also climatic and political situations that create worries and refugees. When we know that in just a few years, Africa will have exceeded one billion people, it is not without a few issues that we will also have to resolve through development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u18	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on Friday 30 June you obtained in the Council of Ministers the green light for the creation of a single centre for asylum seekers at the Queen Elisabeth Military Hospital in Neder-Over-Heembeek, in the territory of the City of Brussels. This centre, presented as a multifunctional centre, is expected to open in January 2019. It would initially have a capacity of 750 places. You said: "In the past, asylum seekers were transferred directly to a reception centre somewhere in the country. In light of the terrorist threat, it was no longer responsible. In the new centre, everyone will be directly controlled." The new mayor of the city of Brussels, Philippe Close, welcomed your decision to reallocate the Petit Château into a new urban project, visibly focused on luxury housing. On the other hand, he was opposed to the creation of a single centre in the north of our capital. Mr Secretary of State, could you please tell me whether contacts have already been made with the Defence, the Régie des Bâtiments, the Region and the City of Brussels on this ambitious urban project? Could you clarify to me the nature of these contacts and the extent of the commitments already made by each other? Do you confirm that the services responsible for the reception and registration of refugee candidates will eventually move to this multifunctional centre? Finally, you use security reasons to justify the concentration of reception in a single national centre. Could you explain to me for 2015, 2016 and the first months of 2017 the number of refugee candidates listed and confirmed as radicalized and thus potential source of terrorist danger for our country and our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u19	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Hellings, yes, our services have already contacted Defence and the Régie des Bâtiments. The last note to the Council of Ministers of 7 July 2017 mentions that the Régie will finalize the purchase file for the Neder-Over-Heembeek buildings with the Defence in 2017. The Régie des Bâtiments has received the needs program and is in the process of finalizing the specifications with the aim of publishing the tender file at the beginning of October. Work is continuing in order to allow the relocation of reception and registration services for asylum seekers to the new multifunctional centre in Neder-Over-Heembeek in January 2019 as foreseen in the initial planning. The Agency does not have information on the number of asylum seekers listed and confirmed as radicalized. Only the number of alerts, i.e. the number of situations involving possible signs of radicalisation, has been recorded since the procedure was introduced in March 2016: 64 alerts of radicalised asylum seekers were recorded between March and December 2016 and 22 between January and May 2017. Please note that data for 2017 are provisional. These are the numbers and we are continuing this magnificent project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. First of all, I think I'm the parliamentarian who lives closest to the Little Castle. I point out that as a riparian, while I have been living there for 20 years, my neighbours of the Petit Château have not caused any worries, absolutely none. Then, there was a rule so far that the fullness of asylum seekers should not be concentrated in one place. There was the idea of sharing this experience with the other communes of the country, the temporary and then permanent reception of asylum seekers in centres scattered throughout the country. In this case, it seems to me that the paradigm is about to change to a single concentrated place. It seems to me that it is not in this way that we will make it easier for the inhabitants of Neder-Over-Heembeek to accept the phenomenon of migration. It's, in my opinion, a way to scare them. Dispersal through reception centres throughout the country has seen beautiful stories: children and parents of children talk to each other and live with refugee candidates, then refugees, to form society. Concentration will not allow this development. I hear your answer about reports of people in the process of radicalization. It would be interesting to have the number of confirmed cases of dangerous persons. When making such a decision with such far-reaching strategic and budgetary implications, certain statistics must be used. The terrorist danger must therefore be proven.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u21	Mr Hellings, you do not really seem to understand the concept of the unique centre of Neder-Over-Heembeek. There's no concentration. The number of places in Neder-Over-Heembeek will not exceed the number of beds in the Petit Château. There is no question of concentrating thousands of asylum seekers in a single centre in Brussels. There are about 700 beds at the Petit Château. There will be about the same in Neder-Over-Heembeek. Why sell the Little Castle? Because the renovation efforts to be made there are immense if we are to meet the reception criteria. That is why an evaluation has been made. It's an opportunity. There will be no concentration of asylum seekers. We open a first door for the arrival in Belgium. But after a few days or weeks, they will be dispersed in the communes that have reception centres. The situation is the same as today. There should be an opportunity to discuss this concept. It also exists in the Netherlands and elsewhere in Europe. I was able to visit infrastructure. It is also in the interests of asylum seekers. Fedasil is absolutely in favour of the project because it should facilitate a registration under correct conditions, of human size.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u22	Thank you for that clarification. I was, in fact, basing myself on your assertions. I repeat that you said, "Before the asylum seekers were transferred directly to a reception centre somewhere in the country." I've deduced that you're going to apply this concentration. But I am quite prepared to discuss it further at another time, for example when you present your budget notes, since I assume that this will be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u23	The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 19838 by Mrs Smeyers and No. 19943 by Mr Maingain. Neither of them is present. Mrs Smeyers has asked for her question No. 19838 to be converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Pivin's 19876 and 19877 are also converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, the statements made by Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydło on Wednesday 14 June in Auschwitz aroused strong criticism on the Polish political scene, including on the part of the President of the European Council Donald Tusk, who sees it as the defence of the conservative government's anti-migration policy, in view of the highly symbolic place in which it was pronounced. "In our troubled times, Auschwitz is a great lesson teaching us that we must do everything we can to defend the safety and life of our fellow citizens," said Beata Szydło on the occasion of the commemorations of the 77th anniversary of the first transport of Polish prisoners to the German Nazi concentration and extermination camp in Auschwitz-Birkenau. Poland is one of the few countries in the European Union that stubbornly refuse to accept asylum seekers from Italy and Greece. Brussels launched infringement proceedings against Warsaw, Budapest and Prague in mid-June. Mr Secretary of State, Europe has been founded on the principles of solidarity and mutual assistance. Beyond these infringement proceedings against certain States which seem to refuse them, what are the various possible measures to change attitudes and practices contrary to these principles? On 9 June last in Luxembourg, the Minister of the Interior attended a meeting of the Council of European Interior Ministers on the agenda for which the revision of the Dublin Regulation had been included. The countries of the eastern part of the European Union are very reluctant to reform it, since they reject the mandatory nature of the mechanisms for the relocation of asylum seekers. Can you indicate to me the position that Minister Jambon defended on behalf of Belgium at this meeting, both on the revision of the Dublin Regulation and on the need to separate it from the other texts of the asylum package? Mr Secretary of State, I thank you all the more because you have to answer in the place of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u25	Mr President, the honourable Member will find the answer to his question below. In 2015, the Council took a decision providing for the compulsory relocation of asylum seekers from Italy and Greece. Each Member State has an obligation to implement this decision and thus show the expected solidarity with Italy and Greece. Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic have so far always refused to accept asylum seekers in this context, which led the European Commission to initiate infringement proceedings against these countries in June 2016. In the meantime, Slovakia and Hungary, supported by Poland, had referred the matter to the Court of Justice. On 6 September 2017, the Court ruled, and their application was completely dismissed. The European Commission has announced that it will continue the ongoing infringement proceedings if the countries in question do not comply with the Court's judgment, and that it will refer the case to the Court of Justice if necessary. The procedure is therefore followed, with the aim of bringing Poland and the other countries concerned into compliance with their European commitments. Our country has already expressed its support for the revision of the Dublin Mechanism, in which two elements are of crucial importance, namely responsibility and solidarity. In the light of these two elements, our country will adopt a constructive attitude in the forthcoming discussion. At the moment, there is no discussion of the new Dublin Directive, because Estonia is now the president of the European Union. The two previous Presidencies have not been a great success, because the debate on the Dublin directive has broken some things. For now, we're taking a break. The subject is so sensitive and so difficult that it is preferable to talk about other directives, such as the Return Directive to be revised, the Asylum Procedure Directive, or others, which bring together a little more consensus within European countries. I must say that I myself was tired of the Dublin talks. It is better to talk about the other dossiers, where there is a little more congruence between the Member States. Indeed, the debate on Dublin was very tiring. Positions did not change by one millimetre. You can argue for ten or even a hundred sessions, but then... In Dutch: then I'm tired of it. I don't know how that is best said in French, unless with a word... (...): I'm sick of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u26	...that I don't want to make a statement at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, thank you and I am pleased that the Court of Justice has ruled in this direction. Just as in the problem of social dumping, which also concerns the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, we will see a great negotiation where everything is in everything. We can hope that with President Macron's latest proposals, we can make progress in this and other areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, during the month of June a large number of illegal foreigners were forced out of the country. In total, it concerns 447 individuals, 156 of whom are inmates. The number of voluntary returners, on the other hand, has fallen sharply this year. However, that was one of the spearheads of your policy. It also has a lot of financial implications for the state. How do you explain the fall in voluntary return? Will voluntary return remain an important focus of your policy? You have opened contact points. What steps will you take to promote voluntary return? Almost a third of the repatriates were prisoners. What was the profile of the others?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u29	Mrs De Coninck, Fedasil's statistics do not indicate a decline in voluntary return. On the contrary, there has been an increase since 2014 and, despite the decline in influx, a stabilisation at a high level in 2017. In 2014, 3 587 persons were involved, in 2015 4 053 persons, in 2016 4 267 persons and in the first semester of 2017 2 060 persons. My approach to return policy remains clear: voluntary if possible, forced if necessary. A voluntary return is and will remain a priority, as this way of return benefits both the migrant and the government. It's cheaper and more sustainable. Although the figures since 2014 show a marked increase in the number of voluntary drivers, progress is still possible for certain groups and certain regions. In this context, Fedasil has already launched several actions. At local level, with cities, municipalities and non-profit organisations, there is also a commitment to promoting voluntary return through information sessions and training. Another one took place last week. The remaining two thirds are both pure illegal immigrants, people who have never applied for a procedure, and asylum seekers who have been processed. They were removed to their country of origin, via the Dublin procedure or through a bilateral agreement. DVZ has no figures on the possible problems of public order of those persons. From January to June 2017, 2 359 persons were repatriated. Of the 1 569 not removed from prison, 916 were repatriated to their country of origin, 511 under the Dublin procedure and 142 under a bilateral agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u30	I will not comment much on that. With figures one can prove everything, especially if one goes back to 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, the question had been asked earlier, but it is always good to come back to this situation. On 16 July, you expressed your desire to see the participation of the maritime component of National Defence cease in operations in the Mediterranean Sea, in the event that an agreement is not reached to bring the shipwrecked to Libya in international waters. In practice, therefore, it would be a matter of allowing participating vessels to intervene directly in Libyan territorial waters. You also stated that the operations carried out in compliance with maritime law, i.e. by saving migrants calling for help from drowning and bringing them back to European ports, would create "an air call encouraging people to put their lives at risk". Mr Franken, this is the second time that you question the work of those people who work in the Mediterranean to save lives. The first time, you were targeting non-governmental organizations. This time, it is the work of our own military that you question, considering that they encourage migrants to put their lives at risk. Do you have official statistics that allow you to state that rescue operations at sea or of the type of operation Sophia have an impact on the number of departures from Libya or Tunisia? How many people have died during their attempt to cross the Mediterranean since 2014? How many human lives have been saved by European naval forces since the start of their deployment? But also by the Belgian frigates, since Belgium also participates in it? If you do not have statistics to clearly establish the reality of your statements, what are you relying on? What are the elements that would allow you today to say that Libya is a safe country? How would you consider it legitimate to land the shipwrecked rescued at sea in Libyan ports?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, this question dates from a few months ago. I will not repeat everything our colleague said, but your intention was to say clearly at that time that you wanted to stop the efforts of the Belgian Navy in the Mediterranean. In the meantime, you have also said that there is little traffic there because there are agreements between Italy and the Libyan smugglers, which means that the routes Libya-Italy and Tunisia-Italy are no longer so popular. I read in the newspaper today that the tribes of the Libyan groups of smugglers are fighting among themselves again and that they want to put pressure on the agreement with Italy, and on Europe. That Libyan route would now be seen again. Hence my questions. What will the N-VA do in the Council of Ministers on the mission of the Belgian Navy? You're gonna put that on? Will you shut it down? Or are you giving it energy again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u33	In the first half of 2017, the irregular flow of migrants from Libya to Italy did not seem to be under control at all. Both on irregular crossings and on casualties at sea, we seemed to be on our way to a sad new record. I note that ruthless smugglers have been working three times. After all, they tuned their actions to European efforts to maximise the profits of the books on the roof of migrants. The closer European ships operated to the Libyan coast, and in particular the NGOs that had posted themselves on the border of Libyan territorial waters, the greater the risks posed by the smugglers. Hundreds of migrants were stuffed in non-seaworthy rubber boats, often without the necessary supplies or fuel, hoping that they would be picked up by European ships after a few hours. If this were not the case, the consequences were catastrophic. Since 2014, 13,000 migrants have died during their irregular crossing of the Mediterranean from Libya, out of a total of 600,000 arrivals in Italy. These figures are impressive and shameful. In view of these figures, I think we can all agree that the status quo cannot be an option. This practice was and is totally unacceptable and can only be brought to an end if we make it clear that getting on a boat on the Libyan coast does not automatically mean a ticket to European territory. This has now been achieved through a whole range of European and Italian measures, including training and support for the Libyan Coast Guard so that it can carry out self-rescue missions, the Italian Code of Conduct for NGOs and cooperation with countries of transit and origin on the one hand to tackle illegal migration and on the other hand to eliminate the root causes. The stabilisation of Libya and the improvement of living conditions for migrants in that country is one of the European priorities. At the most recent European Council of Justice and Home Affairs, I once again made the point that this should be fully exploited, including the improvement of reception conditions for people in Libya. There's a lot of work to be done there. These figures show that this approach is finally producing results. Since July 2017, there has been a sharp drop in the number of illegal arrivals in Italy and in the number of drownings in the Mediterranean. As far as the mission of the Belgian frigate Louise-Marie is concerned, I believe that the mandate of the Sophia operation, whose primary aim is to combat trafficking in human beings, was and is too limited to succeed. Without authorisation to operate in Libyan territorial waters, it is very difficult to tackle effective and effective smuggling networks. The mission of the Belgian frigate ended in July. I would like to repeat once again that I made this very clear in that famous broadcast on VTM Sunday afternoon, which I never argued in favour of aborting that mission and allowing the ship to return to Zeebrugge immediately. I didn't say that. I said that this mission could be completed for me, because it would only take two weeks more. However, I did ask questions about the effectiveness and effectiveness of the mandate of Operation Sophia. I'll stick with that. The mandate was amended two weeks later. I'm happy about that, but it's not quite what it should be. However, it is moving in the right direction. Besides, I never said that people should drown for all I care. On the contrary, I have three times since I knew that this would be played again in the studio repeated that the people need to be saved. International maritime law plays. People in distress are being rescued, point on the line. That is not the subject of discussion. I've never questioned that. People who say that or insinuate it are evil. I can't interpret it any other way. How many times can I repeat it? International maritime law plays, but the discussion is where those people are dropped off after they're saved. Should everyone go to Europe or can they go to the North African coastline, where they left? I have also made it quite clear that I do not think that anyone who buys a ticket for a boat should be dropped off in Europe, because that creates a suction effect, more drowning, more misery, more chaos and problems in Italy. In Italy, the whole migration story is very problematic in public opinion. I had a long and interesting conversation with the Italian ambassador yesterday and I can tell you that the situation in Italy is anything but obvious. Anyone who knows Italy or who may have been on holiday in the last few months will be able to confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, first of all, I am not satisfied with your answers. Several weeks have passed. Since then, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has referred to a number of rules. Today, you register in accordance with international law, and that is so much better! But it is regrettable that this reminder had to be made. Then you explain to us that this "air call" you mentioned was misunderstood and that, on VTM, you had the opportunity to clarify your remarks. This often happens with you! Every time there is a first statement misunderstood by journalists and public opinion and, in a second stage, you do retropadalage! You say clearly that those who take a boat in Libya think they get an entry ticket for Europe! The question you never ask yourself is why people leave their country. Why are they leaving their country? Because of the political distress associated with the war, the famine. In any case, these situations are human and deserve our attention. Your answers are always devoid of this aspect. You express yourself in a factual way about "people taking a boat". But do you really think that anyone who leaves his African country wants to be uprooted and suddenly expresses the desire to come to France, Germany, Belgium or elsewhere? No! It's because there's conflict. There are dramatic situations of human distress to the point of making these people able to take risks for their lives, to attempt the crossing of the Mediterranean. I invite you to consider these aspects of things. In conclusion, nothing about cooperation! If you were wondering why people leave their country, you should have elements of an answer like these: what can we do to help these people stay in their country and live as we live in a world of peace, where they can work and support themselves and their families? Nothing! Your answers are simply factual, referring only to repression. A government's response must be comprehensive. If we have relations with African countries, we must offer comprehensive answers. When a problem arises with a country, it is necessary to explain what is being done with that country and to offer alternatives to these populations. I am not satisfied with your answers, but I note that you are a member of international law, which is a very important point for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, the number of refugees from Libya on the Mediterranean has indeed fallen over the past year. However, an increase of half was again observed in September. I base myself on the figures of the International Organisation for Migration. That's 2 500 more. This weekend 1,000 people were saved on the Mediterranean. I suspect that there will be a new stream on which we will have to prepare. In your reply, I was not clear what the modification of the mandate will be to increase that effectiveness that was not there. I'd really like to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u36	The mandate has been amended. At the end of July there was a meeting of the Ministers of Defence or Foreign Affairs. The adjustments that have been made are nevertheless aimed at broadening the operationality of the Sophia operation. However, the calf remains bound by the fact that it is still not possible to operate in Libyan waters. The Italians have dealt with this in the Italian way, with the result that the Italians now operate under Italian flag in Libyan waters. So there is now a European control in Libyan waters, although not with a Sophia mandate, but with an Italian bilateral agreement with the Libyan government of al-Serraj.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u37	Mr. Secretary of State, in De Tijd of 2 December 2014, there was a special article entitled "Positive migration requires positive migration legislation." It was written by Peter Vanham, a freelance journalist who works in America and Switzerland and is a member of the Executive Committee of the Belgian-American Chamber of Commerce. In his article he described that Belgians with a foreign passport and economic and social exemplary migrants would often no longer be welcome with us. Indeed, we know from past surveys that our population is quite negative towards migrants. Some parties are even playing very hard on that. According to these polls, only 19% of the population would believe that migration is positive for the economy and only 12% see a positive effect from migration. There are, of course, great cultural differences and great religious differences. It is, of course, also due to the fact that recent influx is mainly made up of unskilled or low-skilled people who find it difficult to get to work here and that many people with illegal residence status do not return to their country of origin. Migration must, of course, not only be that negative story as it is perceived by the population, migration must also be a positive story. In order to achieve an efficient positive migration, new policies could also be put in place to facilitate the granting of legal residence to foreigners with a certain profile and even to Belgian nationality in the long term. In Canada, for example, there has been a system of points since 1967 which takes into account, among other things, training, competences and experience. For example, 240 000 migrants are admitted to Canada every year. Two thirds of them consist of certain migrant workers under economic criteria. Several countries in the European Union have a programme to grant a visa or passport to wealthy persons. For example, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Hungary, Cyprus, Malta, Bulgaria and the United Kingdom. There one can obtain a legal residence for a certain cost and/or investment linked to other conditions such as language tests. At the beginning of this year, Luxembourg also adopted a law facilitating the acquisition of nationality. In February, the Luxembourg Parliament also adopted another law granting the right of residence to investors from around the world who invest at least EUR 500 000 in a company based in Luxembourg, invest EUR 3 million through Luxembourg investment companies or 20 million in a Luxembourg bank. It is quite an explanation to finally come to the following questions, Mr Secretary of State. How do you view the introduction of similar measures in Belgium for highly skilled persons and migrant workers? What are your views on facilitating the granting of a right of residence to foreign investors as is already the case in other countries of the European Union? Will such a part be included in a future migration code?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u38	Mr Vermeulen, in your question you refer to the golden visa issue that has taken place in countries such as Spain, Portugal, Greece and the Netherlands. For the first three countries, this was seen as a means of attracting investment, given the poor economic situation in these countries. Spain links investments of EUR 500 000 to the acquisition of an indefinite residence permit. In Portugal, such investments may lead to the acquisition of Portuguese nationality. However, Portugal notes that such visas raise a problem of tracing the origin of the funds invested and is introducing a check on the origin of these funds. The Netherlands is aware of the regulation of the golden visa, which involves a thorough examination of the origin of the funds to be invested, as well as of the nature of the activities in which they are invested. Such a visa is an opportunity to attract foreign investors, but vigilance remains necessary because of the problems outlined. I would point out, however, that since the sixth state reform, the specific regulation of the status of migrant workers has been the responsibility of the Länder. The right of residence results under my jurisdiction. However, I can tell you that my cabinet and administration are in the process of implementing the architecture on labour migration, as it is drawn up by Europe in many directives. First of all, there is the Permis Unique Directive, which is the application for admission to work and residence in a single document. Following lengthy negotiations between federal authorities and state governments, the draft cooperation agreement was approved at the Federal Council of Ministers on 8 September 2017. This cooperation agreement will be submitted to the Consultation Committee in October 2017, after which it will be sent to the Council of State. I hope to come to Parliament in January 2018. At the same time, my services are working on the transposition of the ICT (Intra-Company Transfers) directives, seasonal work and the new Blue Card Directive. All these directives fall within the scope of the permis unique procedure. These directives will be transposed by means of implementing agreements, which is less time-consuming. Finally, I will also ensure that this legislature transposes the directive which regulates the status of trainees, together with the status of volunteers and au pairs. In this way, all EU labour migration directives will be transposed by the end of 2018. A chapter of the Migration Code will be devoted to the "Residence' aspect related to the transposition of those provisions. With this, we are fully committed to active migration with this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u39	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I didn't expect anything more than to focus on active migration. I would remind you of practices that a number of other countries use. With large investments one can buy access rights. Not so long ago Professor Hendrik Vos of Ghent University gave an interview on the radio. He was pretty critical. He pointed out that the influx involved a large part of the wealthy Russians who would sometimes have earned their money in a dubious way. I'm not gonna make any statements about anyone else. One has to look at each file individually, but there is a risk of unethical use of passports. In the middle of September, Het Laatste Nieuws said that Cyprus earned four billion euros by handing out a passport to rich Russians. That is not the intention, of course, but it could be an opportunity to do something with it. I have also heard that you will come to Parliament in January and in the course of 2018 with a few concrete points.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u40	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this question concerns some of your areas of competence, which have very few questions to ask, in particular administrative simplification. Article 14 of the Law of 5 May 2014 anchoring the principle of unique data collection in the operation of the services and bodies that belong to or carry out tasks for the government and to simplify and align electronic and paper forms, provided that each federal government administration must take into account the only-once principles when requesting data from citizens and businesses from 1 January 2016. In an interim status of 11 December 2015, 52 federal government institutions were contacted with the request to participate in the only-once programme and what their action plans are. Just under two thirds of the Action Plans indicated that all planned actions would be completed by the target date set and that the services would therefore be able to offer a only-once service. First, can you confirm that all federal public services and all federal government institutions were ready on 1 January 2016 to offer a only-once service? In the meantime, we're a year and a half later. Secondly, which services or institutions have any problems? What is the nature of these problems? What's the reason these haven't been solved? Thirdly, in the summer of 2017, was there another progress report, such as the report for 2015, of the Administrative Simplification Service on the only-once implementation? If so, what were the main conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u41	Madam President, Mr Vermeulen, since 1 January 2016, all federal administrations in the implementation of only once are indeed obliged to re-use the available data and to fully align paper and electronic forms. ICT, technical, legal and organisational actions are needed for this purpose. In 2014, the DAV contacted 52 federal administrations to provide an inventory of forms and legislation, along with an action plan. They also had to appoint a only-once coordinator, who manages the implementation and acts as a contact point for the follow-up by the DAV. In 2015 and 2016, several consultations took place with that coordinator. Recent mergers have reduced the number of federal institutions contacted from 52 to 47. The following is an overview of the federal entities whose obligation to comply with the only-once legislation is closely followed by the DAV. All FPSs and PODs have appointed a coordinator responsible for the only-once management. The DAV has regular consultations with all coordinators. BELSPO has completed all actions in the field of only once, seven FPSs and PPSs have prepared a complete inventory of forms, nine FPSs and PPSs have digitized or will do so in the short term, six FPSs and PPSs have prepared an inventory of legislative provisions that are contrary to the principles of the unique data collection and the alignment of paper and electronic forms. As regards public utility institutions and other federal institutions, nine public utility institutions and other federal institutions, a coordinator has been appointed, three institutions have been or will be digitised by the BIPT, the NGI and the Federal Planning Office, and nine institutions have drawn up an inventory of legislative provisions that are contrary to the principles of unique data collection and the equalisation of paper and electronic forms, and nine institutions have submitted an elaborate only-once action plan to the DAV. In addition, there are the social parastaals, which, given their historical origins, are almost entirely in line with the only-once legislation. The KSZ itself continues to monitor the application of the only-once legislation for all social parastaals. The DAV has regular consultations with the FOD BOSA, the DGDT, the KSZ and the federal service integrators. The Action Plans show that most of the outstanding actions are still aimed at preparing only-once compliance services. It concerns the inventory of legislation and forms, the application of authorisations, the preparation of internal procedures and operations and the connection to the network of service integrators. The many actions and their actualisations have a considerable lead time and investment cost. In order to accelerate this process, a more intensive cooperation between the DAV and the service integrators has recently been launched to facilitate the introduction and alignment of only once. The objectives of this cooperation are to identify accelerating elements for the introduction of only once and to unblock the potential and opportunities for the introduction of new authentic sources. The interim status of the only-once implementation was reported to the Council of Ministers in 2015 and 2016. The next progress report is scheduled for early 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, it is a fact that a great deal of progress has been made in the meantime. My contacts in the field confirm all that. It is a good evolution, but the work is obviously not finished and it never will be. You gave very detailed figures and I will study them later and try to draw some conclusions. I want to tell you another anecdote. I was chairman of the Political Renewal Working Party. One of the most important issues there was the list of mandates. The lyrics are now being worked out. I recall that in the internal discussions in May or June we found that many mandates are already published in the Belgian Official Journal but that they have to be reported to the Court of Auditors again and again. A simplification would also be welcome there. Perhaps the organisations themselves would take better initiatives in this regard. This also means that the only-once implementation is extended at every level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u43	I fully agree with the latter. The only-once principle should also apply to us. In fact, I proposed this in committee, but it seems not so obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u44	Mr President, Secretary of State, at the beginning of December 2015, Sweden and Afghanistan decided to start negotiations on the read mission of persons whose asylum was refused in Sweden. A large proportion of them were unaccompanied minor refugees. In 2015, there were around 23 000 minor refugees from Afghanistan seeking asylum in Sweden. At the beginning of October 2016, the European Union signed an agreement with the Afghan Government under the heading "The EU-Pakistan Joint Way Forward on Migration Issues'. This agreement should allow Member States to return an unlimited number of refused asylum seekers to Afghanistan as humanely as possible, with the Afghan Government obliged to accept them as well. This return can be voluntary or forced, with or without charters organised by Frontex. A maximum of 50 persons per flight may be deported against their will. The costs of return shall be borne by the European Union. In December 2016, the first groups were returned from Germany, Sweden and Norway. In a recent interview with the Swedish newspaper Dagens Nyheter, the Afghan refugee minister Sayed Hussain Balkhi, who also refused to sign the agreement with the European Union in October 2016, seems to want to return to the previous agreements with the European Union. He would now have proposed to Sweden to take a break and refused to send Afghan asylum seekers back to Afghanistan for the time being. Apparently, the Afghan minister believes that Afghanistan is not equipped enough to re-establish its fellow countrymen who had fled the country earlier. Between January and July 2017, 2 060 people returned voluntarily to their country of origin. Afghanistan is not among the ten countries that represented the largest groups. Of the 4 267 voluntary returners of 2016, Afghanistan was still in sixth place, with 162 persons. I have three further questions about this. Does Belgium not use the European agreement Joint Way Forward on Migration issues of 2016? If not, where not? If so, why doesn't that appear in the figures, not in the ones I see? What other European countries send Afghan rejected asylum seekers back through these Joint Way Forward on Migration issues except Germany, Norway, Austria and Sweden? What numbers would it be for each country? Can you give me information on that? Finally, how can Belgium take further initiatives to encourage the return of rejected asylum seekers from Afghanistan? Have there been any concrete preparations for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u45	Belgium uses Joint Way Forward on Migration Issues to send illegal Afghans back to Afghanistan. The possibilities that this offers are similar to the practice we have been using for years to carry out repatriations for the signing of this Joint Way Forward. In addition, Belgium is aware of the specific situation in which a large number of intercepted Afghans arriving in closed centres under the Dublin Directive or in the framework of bilateral agreements can return to another EU country. In 2016, that was about 90 % of all Afghans removed. A number of EU countries also have bilateral MOUs dating from before or after the signing of the Joint Way Forward. Through bilateral MOUs or equivalent agreements, these are the following countries: the Netherlands, Germany, Sweden, UK, Norway. Through Joint Way Forward these are France, Austria, Belgium, Hungary, Luxembourg, the Czech Republic and Finland. Forced return to Afghanistan in 2017 from January to August: UK 54, Austria 68, Hungary 1, Czech Republic 0, Germany 106, Sweden 73, Luxembourg 0, Finland 44, The Netherlands 55, France 6 and Belgium 23. The return of rejected Afghan asylum seekers is a priority for the DVZ. In addition, in recent years I have had Fedasil take a number of concrete initiatives to inform Afghan asylum seekers about voluntary return and the possibilities for reintegration into Afghanistan. I give a list: a comprehensive reintegration offer in Afghanistan through IOM, training of return consultants in the reception centres to make return negotiable and targeted information campaigns in the reception centres. With these initiatives, I have made sure that Afghan asylum seekers are aware of the possibilities of return and have given the return consultants of Fedasil tools and learned skills to make return discussable. However, returning to Afghanistan does not prove obvious. Afghans often stayed in transit countries such as Iran and Pakistan for a long time before applying for asylum in Belgium. As a result, family contacts are often watered down and the relationship with the motherland is very weak or less strong, making a return difficult. In 2016, however, there was a triple increase in the number of voluntary Afghan returners compared to 2015, 162 in 2016 compared to 54 in 2015. In 2017, there is another fall of 41 in the first eight months. We are fully engaged in Afghanistan, but it is not obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, I fully understand the delicate situation regarding the return of people from Afghanistan. We have already heard in response to previous questions that it is not so easy to get these people back there. However, I am confident that we will continue to make the necessary efforts for this group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, in April of this year you visited Iraq together with Minister Jambon and Minister Vandeput. There you have reached an agreement with the Iraqi and Kurdish governments to return Iraqi criminals residing in Belgian prisons without a valid residence permit. A further 50 Iraqis would be staying in Belgian prisons without papers. How many Iraqi criminals without valid residence status have been returned to Iraq since 2010? I'd like numbers a year. What was the annual cost for this? How many escorts were needed on average to send such a criminal back to a country like Iraq? I suspect this is not as easy as other countries. How many Iraqi criminals without a valid residence permit were returned in 2017, before the agreement with the Iraqi government was signed and how many after? Will all Iraqi persons residing in Belgian prisons without valid residence papers be able to be returned? If not, what is the reason why this could not happen? In what way can Iraqi criminals who are only in a Belgian prison as short as possible after the signing of the agreement be returned to Iraq as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u48	Since 2010 until August 2017, 87 persons were returned to Iraq. 32 persons were repatriated from prison immediately after their exemption. The DVZ does not systematically keep for the persons repatriated statistics on whether or not they are known for facts of breach of public policy. It is therefore possible that among the 55 other people who were not immediately removed from prison there are people who can be placed under the name of criminal. I'm not going to read the tables. My services have been working for a long time to improve relations with the Iraqi authorities. In 2016 there was a visit to Baghdad. In January 2017, there was a delegation of senior Iraqi officials. Then there was our visit and the signing and negotiation in April 2017. In 2017, until 24 April, i.e. before the signing of the agreement, two persons were forced to return. An agreement was reached between January and April for four other people, but they could not yet return because they were still in prison. From 25 April to the end of August, so after the agreement, one person was returned. However, agreements were also concluded for four other people since the end of April. Three of them will return in the coming weeks. One person will be returned when he has served his sentence. In principle, for all Iraqis who are in a Belgian prison and do not have a right of residence in Belgium, identification will be requested from the Iraqi authorities. The Iraqi authorities have committed themselves to identifying them and taking them back if they are Iraqi nationals. Return can be prevented by all kinds of factors, such as applying for or granting a protection status. It is important to mention that the agreement I have concluded deals with the return of illegal Iraqis who have served their sentences or are able to be released early for repatriation. People who still have to serve time in Belgium are not under my jurisdiction, but under that of the Minister of Justice. The competent services of the DVZ shall start the identification procedure for prisoners a few months before the persons concerned can actually be released. In this way the removal can be organised immediately after the release. For example, five agreements have already been concluded this year for people who will be released from autumn 2017. If we know that someone can be released within two months or can be released early, we will be asking for identification. We're all getting the laissez-passers now, which is new. So far we have received everything we have asked for. Only one person has been sent back, because, of course, we have to find out who's getting out when. Take, for example, the story of the gang rape in Ostend. That was about four or five Iraqis, but they have, of course, been given severe prison sentences and will not be released until they have served that sentence. If they're supposed to serve their sentence in an Iraqi prison, a readmission agreement is needed, and that falls under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. I do not think we have such an agreement with Iraq. In any case, it's up to the Justice Department to take care of it. That is an interim transfer, which is something other than a repatriation after serving a prison sentence, for which I am competent. An intermediate transfer is a matter for the Justice Department, but you know that by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u49	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 20100 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 20164 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, I have four questions. I'll put them all together and I'll sum up some of them. The situation in the Maximilian Park exploded this summer. Your approach almost got us into a mini-Calais, i.e. refugees on the streets, without shelter or official reception and with very little information on asylum procedures. This looks like Calais and it is the result of your policy. In the Maximilian Park there were people with a low risk of recognition while others, for example from Sudan, had a fairly high chance of being recognised as refugees. You have opposed reception, food distribution and information booths of NGOs on asylum procedures in Belgium. Especially in the first few weeks, you left children without parents in that park. These children are very vulnerable, and they should have been taken out of that group from day one and provided protection. The procedures for doing this exist in Belgium. Those children should not even apply for asylum in order to enter a protection procedure. In short, it was one chaos in the Maximilian Park due to your approach. I have received a number of flyers which effectively show that there is very little information on the possibilities for asylum in Belgium. There is no letter in these flyers, there is only talk of return, voluntary return, embassies of other countries, telephone numbers, there is no mention of the asylum procedure when there may be political refugees or war refugees in that group. For example, Sudanese people have a 60% chance of being recognised. Why don't you communicate better with that group of refugees in that park about the asylum procedures in our country? They can then receive a yes or a no, after which work can be done on integration or return. None of this happened. They were left in that park, even children without parents. Why is the government completely absent when it comes to first-line aid for those people? Then I'm talking about shelter, food delivery or clothing. In fact, the police intervene in Brussels, taking away the few clothes, sleeping bags and blankets they have been able to collect thanks to the help of people from the neighbourhood, and then dumping everything in a garbage dump. I don't think that's the way to handle it. We sometimes forget that this is about people. People are treated in a human way. You've also resisted volunteers jumping in front of these people. I would like to hear from you how the information on asylum procedures in Belgium is disseminated in the Maximilian Park. Who's responsible for that? Through what medium? Do you have any copies of the flyers with the information being distributed there? When and how often was this information disseminated in the Maximilian Park? Due to the lack of information from the competent authorities, civil society itself took on the task of encouraging people to apply for asylum and to inform them. It is reported that you did not allow an information booth to be set up for this purpose in the park. Is this true? Finally, a word about cooperation with Sudan. Much has already been said about it, including in plenary. The fact that Belgium is working with a dictatorship, with a regime that tortures opponents, is totally unacceptable to me. You are actually risking the agents of the Sudanese regime coming to Belgium and from the group of Sudanese refugees who are taking people they would like to see behind bars in Sudan itself. These people are at risk because of your policies. Of course, that's a bridge too far. Our alternative is to give these people temporary shelter and inform them about asylum. If they still refuse to apply for asylum, then of course they have to go back. If they do, the normal procedure will be followed. Those officers fly over from Sudan, actively cooperate with it, and actually give them a blank cheque, as it were, to select the Sudanese they want to see deported, which is obviously unacceptable. What, by the way, has the role of State security been in this whole file? We have read in the press that the Sudan delegation is not known for the security of the state, but that, frankly, does not mean anything at all. State Security has no database of agents of dictatorial regimes around the world. The fact that they are not known really does not mean anything. That is not the job of the State's Security to keep up with all the agents of dictatorships around the world. If there are any reports on the security of the State, since we have been on the file for some time now, then I would like to look at them as a Member of Parliament because there is a link here with your authority and your file. So far, a first series of questions to you, Mr Secretary of State. Unfortunately, the mission from Sudan is over. We had asked for that mission to be terminated immediately, to stop, and to send those officers from Sudan with the first best plane back to Sudan itself. After all, that is where a moral limit is crossed. Anyway, I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u52	Mr Van Hees and Mrs Pas are not present. Mrs. Fonck neither.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u53	Mr President, I have asked a lot of questions at various times. Of course, they are all listed here in a row. I'll try to put the questions together. In the meantime, a number of things have also been clarified after the discussion we had in plenary and also in the media. A number of questions relate to practical things, to figures. I propose that I return it because it is probably not possible to discuss it today. Mr Secretary of State, from the Sunadian capital Khartoum there has been an identification mission with the Foreign Office to assist the Belgian authorities in identifying persons in the Maximilian Park and the Brussels-North station. Before that, you were in our country with the Sudanese ambassador. In addition to the support of an identification team, it would also be agreed that Sudan will quickly deliver laissez-passers. It has already been mentioned a few times that you are making agreements with an extremely questionable regime. The Sudanese President was charged with war crimes and serious human rights violations by the International Criminal Court in The Hague. We need to be on our guard. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Which appointments were made exactly? What guarantees have you received that the Sudanese who are being deported will find themselves in a safe situation? Have you had an investigation into whether there could be a possible violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, namely the prohibition of torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment? If yes, what was the result? How will the Belgian embassy monitor what happens to these people after expulsion? Is there any cooperation with international NGOs for this follow-up? There can never be an agreement on expulsions. What promises did you have to make on behalf of Belgium with regard to Sudan? What is the Belgian contribution? I hear there is now a motivation that the security situation for the potentially repatriated is in order. Could you give me some information on that? How exactly is that done? Can you explain the standard operating procedures? Are those who will be identified informed about these procedures? If so, in what way? What exactly is meant by identification? Is it sufficient for that country or region to be established, or should the full identity be established? How many I.D.s happened? How many of these turned out to be Sudanese? How much was the full identity established? Is it enough that Sudan knows that it is a Sudanese to repatriate or should the whole identity be established? Is the identification procedure being continued on Sudanese territory, according to which it is sufficient to establish only Sudanese nationality in order to repatriate? In what circumstances will further identification take place? Is Belgium checking? Is it planned to return if it turns out that it is not a Sudanese after all? How does our country verify and control the findings of Sudan? Is the DVZ always present at the identification? Does the DVZ always understand what is being said, in short there is an interpreter present? How is the reliability of the identification procedure verified? Who bears the travel and subsistence expenses of these Sudanese officials? If Belgium bears the cost of this, how much is that amount? What expenditure is being incurred and what for? In plenary, Minister Jambon replied because you were in New York. He then reported that everything is in accordance with national, European and international law. At that time the question was also asked to make the agreement with the Sudanese government available. So much for my questions. I would also like to point out that a parliamentary delegation visited the DVZ, including the chairman of this committee. It was then said that the people working at the DVZ would regularly organise information sessions for the people in the Maximilian Park and that they would have been talked to repeatedly to explain how they could still submit an asylum procedure to us. Can you confirm that's correct? That would clear up a lot of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u54	Mr President, Secretary of State, my questions relate only to the arrival of a Sudanese delegation to identify migrants from Sudan. We heard in plenary that there was no written agreement or protocol between Belgium and the Sudan on this cooperation. But can you explain here the terms of the gentleman's agreement that binds you, as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, to the ambassador of Sudan? Furthermore, does not the fact that President El-Bechir is under two arrest warrants issued by the International Criminal Court on 4 March 2009 and 12 July 2010 encourage you to exercise the utmost caution in this kind of collaboration? Have any contacts been made with the Minister of Foreign Affairs before the gentleman's agreement is concluded? Does collaboration with an autocratic and anti-democratic regime in identifying migrants fleeing these countries for these specific reasons seem to you to be compatible with international law, in general, and the Geneva Convention in particular? I think I remember that in April you felt in La Libre Belgique that sending migrants back to Sudan would involve having to discuss with a dictatorship, which was not acceptable. Why did you change your mind? Finally, how many migrants have been returned to Sudan since that collaboration? Some of them were opponents of President Omar al-Beshir. Mr President, Mr Minister, I would be grateful if you would excuse me because I have to leave, but I will read the report carefully and my colleague, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, will explain to me the answers you have given.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u55	Mr President, Mr Franken, for several weeks now, the population has been struggling with what is happening at Maximilian Park, as it has already been the case in 2015, during the first crystallised crises around this place, which has become symbolic of the humanitarian situation resulting from this government's asylum policy. In short, several hundred migrants, mostly single men, but also women and sometimes unaccompanied minors, find themselves in this park in deplorable humanitarian conditions to the point of becoming a real public health problem for migrants, residents, public officials and citizens who come to bring a little humanity to the ground. Mr Franken, in the capital of Europe, is now suffering from scabies and tuberculosis. Again, unfortunately, it is the local authorities, NGOs and ordinary citizens who must take control of the situation in order to compensate for the inaction of the federal authorities. It is the city of Brussels that must make available free premises for Médecins du Monde for their medical consultations, and it must also make toilets and containers available in the park free of charge. She is also the one who, on a daily basis, places CPAS agents, peacekeepers and green spaces on the ground to ensure public cleanliness and acceptable living conditions for many residents in this densely populated area and the minimum dignity of people residing in the park. It is still the city of Brussels that must direct them to the services of Fedasil or detect the most vulnerable people and shelter them. Mr Franken, what are your services actually doing to care for these people? You are looking forward to a drop in the number of applications. How have they evolved in recent months and how are they treated? With regard to persons referred to your services by the police, how are they treated? I remember that most of them are sent to a closed centre. How are they informed of their rights? How are they informed of their rights before being locked up? With regard to health, what measures, if any, do you take in consultation with your relevant colleagues to act on the ground? We remember the great publicity that you gave the efforts to prevent migrants from Calais from arriving on the Flemish beaches. What are the means deployed against the channels that bring these people to Brussels? How are your services involved in working with the judicial police in this area? What networks have you been able to dismantle since this summer? How many court files have your services collaborated in? How many have resulted in convictions? I look forward to hearing all your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jambon, at the plenary session on 21 September, the Prime Minister, in the Committee on the Interior on 26 September, and myself, during the last plenary session, have already clarified the general position of the government with regard to migrants in transit – and in particular his approach to the question of Maximilian Park and the North Railway Station and to cooperation with Sudan in the context of our return policy. This government is doing everything it can to prevent a second Calais in Brussels. Let us be clear: I do not want Calais in our capital. Following the confusion in committee, I would like to clarify once again that no MOU was signed with Sudan and that no practical arrangements were made between me and the Sudanese ambassador. That is not so exceptional at all. According to international obligations, countries should withdraw their nationals illegally residing in another country. Identification, including by an identification team, is a normal practice of cooperation between different services within their jurisdiction of return. As regards the identification procedure, I can tell you that an ordinary identification starts with a letter to the embassy of the country from which the person appears to come, as can be derived from his or her file. What is the declared nationality, if any, during residence procedures, the presence of identity documents or other documents proving nationality, etc. The DVZ provides as complete a picture as possible of what one knows about the possible identity and asks the embassy to formally verify, confirm and deliver a laissez-passer. It depends on embassy to embassy, from country to country, how one wishes to do this identification. Sometimes the embassy is not competent and the file is forwarded to the central government in the country. In such a case, it is of course important that copies of documents can be submitted. Often the embassy asks for an interview with the person concerned. During such an interview, the person concerned is heard by an embassy employee, in the presence of someone from the DVZ. The embassy employee shall check the identity, nationality of the person concerned. Sometimes this is confirmed by the person concerned. Sometimes not. It is then up to the embassy employee to determine by language, dialect, etc. whether the person concerned is a national of his country or, where appropriate, to indicate which other country the person concerned might be. Especially interested parties from West African countries often express themselves as nationals of their neighbouring countries. The relevant consular staff can then set the DVZ on the right path. For some countries it is sufficient to determine the nationality of the person concerned. Others want to know the specific identity of the person concerned before delivering a laissez-passer. Belgium is trying to conclude MoUs (Memorandum of Understanding) with as many countries as possible to agree on the procedure and the course of identification, in particular in order to determine the deadlines for replying. These MoUs aren't really binding. At European level, there are famous readmission agreements in which an identification component is always included. With regard to the organisation and costs of the Sudanese identification mission, I can inform you that the costs were borne by the Belgian State and the European Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. AMIF pays part of the Sudanese identification mission in Europe. Identification missions often come from less wealthy countries. Without taking the cost for ourselves, such missions simply do not happen. As mentioned by Prime Minister Jambon and Minister Jambon, before the visit, questions were asked about the expulsion to Sudan by other European countries and there have been contacts with Great Britain and France about their experiences with the identification and return of Sudanese people. From 2014 to 2016, France – under the presidency of Socialist François Hollande – repatriated 205 Sudanese. Each of these repatriations was organized with the collaboration of the Sudanese authorities, also involving the identification in France of the persons concerned by Sudanese officials. As confirmed by the Minister of the Interior, such a mission took place a few months ago. Many countries have an agreement with Sudan and many countries with both left-wing, right-wing and green governments in Europe are returning to Sudan. To this end, there is cooperation with the embassy, because repatriations to Sudan are not done without cooperation with the embassy staff, who are admitted to the closed centres and interviews of the illegal persons involved, persons who are alleged to be Sudanese. Almost everyone does. The European Union has concluded a comeback deal with Sudan and the European Union is paying for the identification mission via AMIF. What exactly is this about? I now come to the results of the police operations and the identification by the delegation from Sudan. During 30 police actions, 99 persons were detained by the Foreign Office who declared that they came from Sudan. For 52 of them there is a hit on EURODAC and therefore a return to another EU Member State is envisaged. Twenty-nine people have already been removed under the Dublin agreements, so 29 Sudanese have already been sent to another European country in recent weeks. With regard to the remaining dossiers with EURODAC, a Dublin readmission agreement has already been obtained for 15 persons, 13 of whom are scheduled to be removed under the Dublin Agreements for the next few days. In addition, 61 people were interviewed by the Sudanese identification team. A total of 43 travel documents were delivered until 2 October. One person was repatriated to his country of origin, Sudan. That happened without a police escort. That person volunteered to return. That's, if I'm right, that happened Saturday, and that went well without incident. For those persons not identified by the Sudanese identification team, the investigation will continue. Based on additional interviews and information obtained during the interview with the identification mission, the embassies of other obvious countries will be registered. If it is established that no identification will be issued within a reasonable time, the persons concerned will be exempted, as is always the case. Of the Sudanese for whom a travel document was issued, two have filed an appeal with the Council for Aliens' Contests against the order to leave the territory and one person has applied to the Council Chamber in Brussels for exemption. It is not clear to me why the question is being asked about the relationship with the conclusions of the Vermeersch Committee. Any removal, whether it be Sudanese or others, will be carried out in compliance with current legislation and directives of international and national interest. In 2015 and 2016, no repatriation to Sudan was organized. This year, only one person was repatriated to that country. To the question about a possible removal to South Sudan, I can answer that it is not on the agenda. There is currently no removal to South Sudan. What are the overall results of the police actions in and around the Maximilian Park? A total of 653 persons in illegal residence were detained administratively. The most important nationalities found are the Sudanese, Eritrean and Syrian. More than a third reported to have Sudanese nationality. Among the 653 arrested in the actions were 215 Sudanese, 172 Eritreans and 59 Syrians. The focus of the actions was in September. A total of 275 persons without a right of residence were taken into account during the increased actions. About half of them were locked up in a closed center for return. We remain committed to an integrated and multidisciplinary approach. On the one hand, the thorough checks are paying off. The number of transit migrants found in and around the Maximilian Park and in the vicinity of the station Brussels-Noord has decreased during the actions. However, we will continue to monitor and monitor the situation on a daily basis and, if necessary, we will take additional measures adapted to the new situation. On the other hand, the UNHCR, Fedasil and the DVZ's information campaign will continue as of next week, UNHCR will continue to participate in the field in the event of a crisis, with increased attention being paid to the most vulnerable, including unaccompanied minors. Migrants are indeed informed about the asylum procedure and related bed-bath bread reception; the possibility of voluntary departure and the possible consequences of illegal residence, namely forced return, are also mentioned. Every week, teams go on the road to inform the migrants. From next week onwards, a new flyer will be used, based on the three services together, i.e. both the DVZ, Fedasil and UNHCR. This flyer deals, among other things, with the asylum procedure in Belgium, with the Dublin agreements, with return; it brings the story, as it should be. So there is indeed provision for first-line care and support for people who apply for asylum here. However, we will not facilitate those who refuse to register and are only illegally present in Brussels as a stopover to reach all pricey Britain by creating a migration hub, of which Mr Vervoort is apparently quite in favour. I think that Mr Close has a different opinion, as he is very cooperative with his police forces. From a certain angle, it is said that the police actions are a disgrace. Well, the police are being directed by the mayor of Brussels. In my view, that is still someone who is not a member of my party, but who is a member of the Parti Socialiste. Furthermore, as regards unaccompanied minors, a weekly action has been launched since last week in which the Voogdij, responsible for unaccompanied minors, who are covered by the FPS Justice Department, together with several NGOs and in cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Service and Fedasil, seeks to reach the unaccompanied minors in the area of the Maximilian Park, inform, forward to identification and guide them to a reception adapted specifically for them. Finally, I would like to address the concerns regarding the application or non-application of Article 3 of the ECHR: non-refoulement. Of course, the application of Article 3 is approached with the utmost caution. Before examining whether Article 3 is infringed in the event of its removal, it is necessary to establish, first and foremost, the identity and nationality of the person concerned. The beginning of evidence that a removal to a third country may constitute a possible breach of Article 3 shall lie with the person concerned. He or she must therefore cooperate in DVZ's investigation of the possible infringement. The stranger is heard for that. If he declares that he cannot return, the elements he makes will be examined and it will be checked whether Article 3 is not infringed in the event of a return. So far, the persons in need of protection are applying for asylum. That is the normal procedure, but it does not seem to be the case here. As far as medical problems are concerned, an assessment is being prepared by the medical service. The Office of Foreigners and Fedasil conducted several information campaigns with migrants at the North Station and Maximilian Park. Officials distributed leaflets to inform them about the issue of transmigration, difficulties during travel, illegal stay in the United Kingdom, risk of exploitation, etc. They were also informed of the possibilities for voluntary return and of any assistance provided to that end. Information leaflets have also been distributed in this regard. Officials also informed migrants that it was always possible for them to apply for asylum in Belgium. That is what is being given, Mr De Vriendt. You have very little faith in the Foreign Office. From your angle, it's always the same story. However, I can reassure you, because UNHCR will be on the ground from next week onwards. We have worked out a leaflet together with them on the asylum procedure, which we will hand out together with them. A UNHCR leaflet has already been distributed on the Dublin procedure, but an integrated leaflet will also be distributed on the asylum procedure. I am curious about the results and the number of asylum applications that we will undoubtedly receive massively; I have no doubt about that. I have had the debate with your party colleague, Mr Calvo. I thought it was weird that you weren't there yourself. Mr Calvo apparently had to walk with the honours. I have heard his solutions in particular, and that was more asylum applications. Let's just do that for a couple of months now. As of next week UNHCR will go along and asylum applications will flow massively. I don't doubt that. It is still possible to apply for asylum in the closed centre. Upon arrival at the centre, all persons will be informed about the possibilities of applying for asylum during their interview with the return officer. They shall also be informed of the various remedies available. This information is also available in various languages, via information booklets and audio cassettes. Those who declare that they are from Sudan explicitly declare that they will not apply for asylum because they still want to be able to travel to the UK. Especially if they run the risk of being sent back to Italy by the Dublin procedure, they will not apply for asylum because they want to go north and not south. Even those who do not run this risk of being returned because they have never been fingerprinted when entering the European continent, do not apply for asylum. This in itself is a bit strange because they will not be sent back to Italy or Hungary and could simply stay in Belgium. Of this large group of around 60 people, who are in the closed centres, one person has now applied for asylum. We are pretending that these people from Sudan will all be given asylum, as if they were people with a refugee or subsidiaryly protected status of 80, 90 or 100 %. The recognition rate is on average 55% in 2017, which means that 45% of them will have to return anyway. It is always said that one does not want a second Calais, but when one then talks about the repercussions and what one has to do to avoid it, then suddenly comes the finger with all kinds of limitations. How then should the situation be resolved? If we do not have a second Calais, but there are still Sudanese asylum applications, a little less than half of which are rejected, then how the hell can these people return to Sudan if I am not allowed to talk to the ambassador? That ambassador was appointed here by the Belgian government. He has submitted his nobility letters to the Foreign Office and has been to the King. An ambassador is here to have a conversation with, isn't he there to not talk to? I find that strange. Ambassadors in our country are just being appointed to hold talks with them. So people want me to work on the return, but I can't talk to the ambassador. How the hell is that supposed to happen, given that the people involved are out of papers? Some say the ambassador's a little shady. I even want to believe that, but he's been appointed, so I have to do business with him. However, according to some, the identification mission is about it. You can't do that. However, identification missions have been going on for many years. The concept of the identification mission was developed under the purple-green government and for the first time put into practice with Russia. I do not know about human rights in Russia, but the only reason why President Putin has not yet been brought before the International Criminal Court in The Hague is because Russia does not participate in the International Criminal Court, otherwise he might have been given an arrest warrant for a long time. However, that was then under purple-green and then there was no problem with human rights. Those delegations are welcome, heartfeltly. Since then, there have been many delegations among other governments. None of that was a problem. We can also discuss human rights in China, and see what freedom of expression in China gives journalists, political opponents, people from Tibet and other minorities. But if we do an identification mission with a very difficult regime such as that of Sudan, I admit that the world is turned upside down, we are human rights criminals, we are collaborators, I am a Nazi and a racist. Basically, I'm a Nazi with a gun in my hand according to the people of Ecolo-Groen, Ecolo jeunes. I filed that complaint yesterday. We'll see what comes of it. I can tell you that I have taken responsibility for this. I will take responsibility, together with Mr Jambon, with the Mayor of Brussels, Mr Close of the PS and his police forces. We will not shirk our responsibilities. Every day, we will take responsibility for ensuring that no Calais is effectively created in the Maximilian Park and that there is more security in our highway parkings. One is seen quite apart from the other. There is a very large safety problem in Groot-Bijgaarden, in Haasrode in Flemish Brabant, but also in Drongen for example. A number of parkings have been closed for a period due to the reign of terror of transit migrants in their attempt to climb into trucks, trucks and international transport, of course mainly towards Great Britain. Those are the same people, those are people who sleep in Maximilian Park and North Station during the day and try to climb into groups with smugglers at night to reach the UK. That is a very serious safety problem, and I think this should also be mentioned. That's a completely different world. No, that's about the same problem. It's also about the safety aspect for our truck drivers. I think this should also be said. I never hear that from a certain angle that stands up for the little man. That is actually very ironic because many of these truck drivers are, of course, also migrants, hard-working Eastern European migrants very often. Of course, they're terrified. There's been some serious incidents in those highway parkings. Once again, Minister Jambon, in consultation with Minister Weyts, has decided to close a number of parkings. That's not for nothing. Those are very heavy measures with major repercussions. I see this as one story. Minister Jambon and I are particularly convinced that we must do everything we can to continue along this path. Sudan's identification mission was not evident but it is the right thing to do. We had to do this because the vast majority or a very large part of those people are from Sudan. They entered via Libya and Italy. I am doing as well as all the European countries that are affected by this problem, whether they are left-wing or right-wing governments. It's even a green government sometimes. Look at what Sweden does to Sudan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, for three months you have left 700 refugees in the Maximilian Park, without shelter, without food, without proper information on the asylum procedure. What difference does that make from a mini-Calais? You always say you don't want Calais. There was a mini-Calais in Brussels for three months. There was a mini-Calais in the summer of 2015, when Belgium refused to provide shelter for people who wanted to apply for asylum for six weeks. Your policy ensures that there was a mini-Calais in Brussels for three months. We could have done that differently, but I will come back to that later. You have said a number of new things, Mr Secretary of State. They're hallucinating. You are now saying, on 4 October, three months after the refugees have grouped into the Maximilian Park, that a leaflet will finally be distributed with correct information on the asylum procedure. Why didn't you tell these people about the asylum procedure three months ago? Perhaps they would have applied for asylum and perhaps they would have ended up in a reception network. If their asylum had been refused, they might have returned by now. You've had the problem dragged. There are children without parents in the Maximilian Park. I've seen them myself. I've been there. I quote: "From now on, there will be increased attention for children without parents." You've spent three months...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u58	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u59	You have just said that there are new elements: the increased attention for children without parents, the spread in the Maximilian Park of a pamphlet with information on the asylum procedure. Now that the migrants have left the Maximilian Park, you are finally going to do what you have to do. That's hallucinating. Now that the problem has been dived away, because now they are scattered around Brussels. The problem has not been solved at all. Now you are finally going to do what you have to do. Why didn't you do that three months ago? After all, you could have managed the problem. That news is really to fall over. What have you been doing for a few weeks? You have carried out police operations, raids and have people arrested who did not have sufficient information about their legal right to apply for asylum. It concerns persons of nationality of Sudan, Eritrea and Syria, three nationalities with particularly high recognition rates. In the case of Syria, we are even at a recognition rate of almost 100 %. So there are Syrians in Brussels who are almost certainly entitled to asylum, but yet you pick them up, when those people did not get the much-needed information. That's the world upside down, isn't it, Mr Secretary of State? This is not how we deal with war refugees from Syria, I hope? Now I come to Sudan. The fact that there are identification missions with foreign embassies is not a problem in itself. That is what happens when it comes to the Balkans, for example. The invitation of embassy staff to participate in the identifications does not happen for the first time. However, the authorities in the Balkans cannot be compared with the Sudanese dictatorship. Sudan is in line with North Korea and Syria when it comes to human rights violations. Similarly, Russia in 2001 is not today's Russia. Russia has definitely changed under Putin. If you were to send a mission from Russia to Belgium, I would also ask the necessary questions, given that purely democratic opponents of Putin in Russia are also subject to repression. If I understand you correctly, the procedure seems to be as follows. An embassy worker from Sudan can come to Brussels and brand someone as Sudanese, regardless of whether that's true. With this information, the Foreign Affairs Office and the Belgian government will work. The malicious information can continue to be used to put someone on the plane to Sudan. In the French press, I read an article about a Sudanese, Mohammed, 30 years old, who was also sent back to Sudan on 17 March 2017 as part of such an identification mission in France. That man was arrested there by the Sudanese government and put in jail. You are also at risk from your cooperation with the Sudanese dictatorship. We do not wish to take that risk. We have an alternative. Give these people correct information about our asylum procedure, not through a police raid, but perhaps better in another way, with flyers that do not speak only of return, nor with flyers that are monolingually written in English. The identification should be done with caution and precision. This will be slow, but Sudan is a country to which we do not want to send people back if they are at risk of persecution. It's simple, isn't it? This should be the common thread in your policy. We are not going to have our asylum policy, especially when it comes to Sudanese, directed by officers of a dictatorial regime. We are going to manage this ourselves, with caution, aren't we? We're not prepared to take those risks, are we? For your information, I have the pamphlets that were apparently distributed for three months in the Maximilian Park, without a word about the asylum procedure, just about return. Now, three months later, you are going to change that and you are finally going to come up with a good pamphlet when the situation has already changed completely. Congratulations, you've caused chaos in the Maximilian Park. Your policy has created a mini-Calais in the Maximilian Park. If you do not change your policy, we may be back with a mini-Calais in Brussels within x-number of months. I want to avoid giving shelter, explaining basic requirements, asylum procedure and then giving people asylum or not. That's my approach. That approach is human and realistic, and clearly different from yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u60	I am a little disturbed by the caricatures that are used here on different sides to equalize the big ones. Just so we're clear, we're not against identification. Nor are we opposed to the fact that there are sometimes teams from abroad to help with that identification and the possible return. Mr Secretary of State, Sudan is a special country. If one is dealing with a president who is convicted of non-respecting human rights, one can also assume that people who flee have very good reasons for doing so. If they then come here and they are confronted with officials from their home countries to check whether they are actually from Sudan, this seems to me to be something about it. That is why we must respect the procedures as much as possible. I also did not receive an answer to the question of whether or not there is an interpreter when one goes to the embassy with the DVZ and the person concerned and checks whether these people are from Sudan, using language, dialect and other elements. The issues you are announcing are probably too late, but they are in themselves good initiatives. However, I fear that your policy is to deter people and smugglers from leaving people in the Maximilaanpark in Brussels. So the question is, where are these people going? It is important to ensure that the problem cannot be dealt with underground by such handling and communication in the media, and that it is no longer possible to achieve results. You are talking about a safety problem on parkings and motorways. By closing parking lots, this is not solved. I believe that other solutions need to be sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u61	Mr Franken, you keep repeating that you do not want a new Calais in Brussels. But neither do we! The jungle of Calais is a slum created in a context where local authorities, NGOs, volunteers and migrants have been handed over to themselves in the management of a real problem without the necessary massive support from the central government. Nor do we want such a humanitarian situation. Yet it is your policy of denial and repression that creates the conditions for a Calais in Brussels and it is the city authorities, NGOs and Brussels citizens – but not only because solidarity is spreading – that must mobilize everything in their power to compensate for your inaction and that of the government. This is about human beings, not statistics and even less shock communications! You don't want Calais bis, but tell the truth! Affirm that you let the situation deteriorate and then say, "Look at these strangers, look at this open-air slum in the capital of Europe." Maybe that way, it will allow you to say that you want to clean up. Leave it to let a situation degenerate and then disembark and make a show of force, Mr. Franken, that's your tactic. But when the Prime Minister thanks the police forces who come down in the early morning to conduct control operations, he forgets to thank all those who are trying to solve this humanitarian crisis that you are causing in part. I appoint volunteers, NGOs, ordinary citizens and residents, as well as officials of the municipal public services. In a case like this, you must work with the city and the Brussels-Capital Region. I cannot accept you implying that the mayor of Brussels, Mr Philippe Close, supports your policy. On the contrary, I would like to ask you again these questions since you have not answered them. Who has provided facilities for Médecins du Monde? Who makes sanitary facilities available? Who provides daily CPAS officers, public cleanliness, peacekeepers, and even agents to direct people to Fedasil's services? Who? It's not you, it's the City of Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u62	Nor do you provide an answer to my question about networks. I don't think we're dismantling networks, just shutting down parking lots. This is also the heart of evil. Mr Franken, it is more than time for you to take the necessary measures to accompany and support the local authorities and, above all, for you to take your responsibilities, because we also do not want a Calais in Brussels, even if, as my colleague has said, it is perhaps already too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament (The sitting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 20453 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen's 20616 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smeyers' 20644 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 20809 by Mr Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, the European Commission intends to finance pilot projects on labour migration in 2018. Together with industry, it identifies which workers in Europe are in short supply. These workers will then be legally recruited in countries that cooperate in forced return of illegal migrants. The European Commission wants to achieve a more effective return policy. The Commission proposes that the European Border and Coast Guard should be given powers and a new return department should adopt a proactive approach. Countries of origin should be encouraged to cooperate by rewarding them with legal labour migration through the second pillar. What do you think of the European Commission's ideas? What is the Belgian Government's position? How will Belgium contribute to its achievement? Does the approach of linking take-backs to legal migration include the follow-up to the Belgian bilateral readmission agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u65	Mrs De Coninck, as soon as there are concrete proposals, they will be assessed by the government. Labour migration is not a federal competence, but a federal responsibility. I have always made the analysis that in our country the relationship between active and passive migration is out of balance. The use of legal labour migration in the context of discussions with third countries is not a taboo to me. I believe that all levers, both positive and negative, should be on the table. Economic migration is undoubtedly in line with economic logic. Any proposals on enhanced labour migration should therefore be proportionate to the existing needs of our economy and labour market and fit within a framework that adequately covers the possible risks of migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, I would nevertheless take into account the economic needs of the country of origin. We must also be careful not to get into a brain drain because of such dynamics. I'll wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u67	Mr Secretary of State, the Libyan Coast Guard expressed threatening language towards NGOs and also acted in the Mediterranean. The NGOs would no longer act in search-and-rescu emissions. The Libyan government also claimed to install a search-and-rescue zone. It was made clear to NGOs that they were not welcome in this zone, which would extend to 74 nautical miles from the coast. However, it concerns international waters, where the principle of freedom of navigation applies. Firstly, the German Government indicated that the establishment of a Libyan SAR zone should in no way restrict the rescue operations of NGOs, especially as this would constitute a violation of international law. Do you agree with this? What will you do to ensure compliance with these international obligations? Secondly, certain NGOs also did not wish to carry out SAR operations, as they feared that the Libyan command would eventually instruct them to Tripoli. Do you believe that Libya is currently a so-called place of safety for migrants, in the sense of the so-called IMO guidelines on the treatment of persons rescued at sea, if NGOs were to ship there? Thirdly, what will you do to ensure that NGOs can at least save people in international waters without threats and without having to discharge the risk in Libya?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u68	In the past summer Italy has drawn up a code of conduct for NGOs carrying out rescue operations in the Mediterranean. This code was widely supported by EU Member States, including Belgium. The code was drawn up with respect for international rights and human rights, but it is part of the fight against human trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Belgium has always argued that the European approach should not consist solely of rescue operations as they are not a sustainable solution. On the contrary, such an approach facilitates the criminal activity of smugglers, with a further negative impact on the security situation in the countries of departure and on the death rates at sea. Within the EU, many efforts are being made to stabilise the situation in Libya. For example, UNHCR and EUBAM are active in the field of providing adequate reception and asylum capacities, as well as in facilitating voluntary sustainable return to and reintegration into the country of origin. Work is also under way to improve living and security conditions in the countries of origin and transit countries in the region, as well as to improve border management in countries further along the migration route. Italy is currently working with 14 Libyan mayors on a project that provides economic alternatives to human trafficking. Within such initiatives, it is essential for Belgium and the EU to ensure respect for the EU's basic rights and international obligations. Such a comprehensive approach has already borne fruit. Illegal migration and the number of deaths in the Mediterranean have fallen sharply over the last two months. It is now time to consolidate and deepen this approach. NGOs can indeed operate in international waters if they respect the code of conduct. It is then up to the competent authorities to decide in which port the persons found can be disposed of. I can only observe that my earlier remarks about the fact that NGOs were almost picking up migrants on the Libyan coast, balancing on a very weak cord what direct cooperation with smugglers, after all, was generally shared by my European fellow Members. I can only conclude that the Italian Code of Conduct for NGOs and reinforced support for the Libyan Coast Guard have led to a further reduction in the number of drownings at sea, something I think we can only welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u69	Mr Secretary of State, as I have just pointed out, I suggest that you ask for the figures for the last month. They indicate that the situation is deteriorating again. Besides, winter's at the door. So there's work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u70	Mr Secretary of State, the European Court of Justice recently decided not to accept an action for the destruction of the mechanism initiated by Hungary and Slovakia. The current relocation mechanism also ended, which means that those who arrive now will no longer be allocated. On this distribution mechanism, I have the following questions, Mr Secretary of State. It is often said that there would be insufficient candidates for relocation. However, there are very many candidates on the Greek islands. Why are they not eligible for relocation? Are you in favour of relocation from the Greek islands? Why is that, or why not? What is the Belgian position on the future distribution mechanism? Should a new relocation mechanism enter into force immediately? From which countries? According to what principles? I hear that a certain sum of money would be attached to that. Is Belgium in favour of distributing all asylum applications at the external borders between the EU Member States or only when a certain quota is reached? Or maybe something else? What compensation should there be for this? What do you think of Gerald Knaus' proposal to deal with asylum applications at the European external borders in a rapid but high quality manner, in Italy, Greece and so on, after which allocation to the Member States will follow? So, not so much asylum seekers as refugees are assigned to the Member States. If you can support this proposal, will Belgium also work towards it at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u71	Mrs De Coninck, there are currently no or very few people in Greece who are eligible for relocation. As a result, Greece can hardly propose people for relocation. There are still relatively many people present in the hotspots on the Greek islands, but many of them are not eligible for relocation because their country of origin does not exceed the 75% level of protection in the European Union. For other persons, such as Syrians, there may be a possibility of relocation, but only if the Greek authorities have decided that they belong to the category of vulnerable persons and are therefore not eligible for return to Turkey under the concept of "safe third country'. Then there is your question about the position on the future distribution mechanism. Negotiations on the distribution mechanism at European level are currently difficult. Several slopes have already passed. Belgium has always made a thorough assessment of the various proposals and has always applied the following principles: efficient and predictable mechanism that allows for rapid response in crisis situations, responsibility and solidarity are the key words here. I replied in French in response to Mr Flahaux's question about two hours ago. I would also like to stress that the revision of the Dublin regulation goes beyond merely providing for a distribution mechanism for crisis situations. The procedures themselves also need to be more efficient as a matter of urgency. After all, we see today that, in the present form too, the Dublin mechanism is often difficult to implement in practice. Then I come to Mr Knaus' proposal. The rapid and quality assessment of asylum applications at the external borders is also a key element in the current system. In practice, however, especially in situations of high influx, it is often not evident to deal with a very large number of asylum applications within a short period of time. We are already trying to support this approach through the secondment of national asylum experts, a solidarity mechanism to which Belgium has always contributed, as you know, Mrs De Coninck. The asylum procedure and, in particular, the decision on whether or not to grant a protection status remain, for the time being, an exclusive national competence. There are therefore limits to the extent to which third-country experts can be involved in this process. And Greece and Italy are quite on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic742x.u72	Mr Secretary of State, I went to the refugee camps in Greece, in Athens in particular, and last week, together with a large delegation, I went to the refugee camps on the Syrian border in Turkey. In Greece many refugees have been waiting for relocation in a tent camp for years on a sandy surface. I asked very clearly how this relocation is going to be so slow. There are two internal reasons for this. Firstly, it seems that in Greece 14 different departments and the politicians involved are working on asylum, which creates very complex procedures and, above all, delaying manoeuvres, which slows things down. Secondly, the demands made by the recipient country are sometimes so high that the profiles to organise the relocation are no longer found. It is therefore necessary to establish a form of communication, for example on what to do when certain groups are never addressed and also on how to deal flexibly with the criteria. I went to Turkey. For the sake of clarity, I would point out that only 10% of all refugees there live in refugee camps. Those camps are very well organized. However, we have also seen that refugees with a lot of children have been living in a container for six or seven years. Here too, we need to see how we can ensure that relocation is much faster, especially for vulnerable people. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that both the sending and the receiving country must, if we can call it that, take responsibility for this.
