ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u1	Mr President, Minister, my two questions concern the same subject. You'll have to see how you answer them. You know that, like you, I am very concerned about the administrative approach to crime. I believe that this is the future and that we need to develop this further in order to help our security services and police forces a little further. Ultimately, security remains primarily a social issue and also a social responsibility. That's why I'm asking these questions. I have a question, on the one hand, about the RIECs, domestic, and, on the other hand, about the EU-RIECs, the EU-regional RIECs, which was held in Maastricht some time ago. I believe that interesting information and possibilities were set out there. I just want to ask you what the situation is. What do you think of that? How will we develop this further? Preferably in Limburg and Antwerp, as, I believe, was your intention. And what about the EU regional RIEC?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u2	Mr President, I will also answer the two questions put together together together. Perhaps first of all, as far as the EU's RIES are concerned. In this respect, we are following developments very closely. In this respect, the administration takes the initiatives. The talks between the participating Member States of the Benelux and Nordrhein-Westfalen, because that is what we are talking about, are under way. The necessary documents and guidelines are currently being drawn up. That is the work of the relevant administrations. The EU-RIEC will be largely funded by the European Commission. The first contacts have already been made for this purpose. An application file is prepared. Where the EU-RIEC will be housed is still under investigation. It is intended to house it in or near the Meuse-Rhine Euregio, and on Belgian territory. I can imagine that certain municipalities might have room for that. Feel free. EU-RIEC is a pilot project, a lab for international cooperation in the framework of the exchange of information in favour of the administrative approach to organised crime. It will be available to interested administrative authorities and police services. It is up to local authorities and police to do something with that offer. There is the EU-RIEC and the national RIEC, on which I am going to say a little more. National pilot laboratories will be a link and there will be direct contacts with the EU-RIEC. With regard to the national RIEC, the following. Four pilot projects are currently being launched at district level, namely in Antwerp, Limburg, Brussels and Mouscroen. It is a bottom-up structure for administrative enforcement. This is being tested within the current legal framework. Some arrondissements have already determined bottom-up the structure of their pilot project. The pilot project Antwerp is to be housed with the Federal Police CSD and the pilot project Limburg is to be placed with the Province Board. For the other two pilot projects, it is still being considered how they can be completed. The necessary and additional capacity required for this, namely three FTEs, will be made available. In total, therefore, there are six staff members who will be seconded from the federal police. The profiles were written bottom-up, i.e. by local services. There is no specific provision for additional resources. The federal police make the staff available within its regular operation. There are therefore no additional recruitments. That is the situation at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u3	Did I understand correctly that you answered both questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u4	That's right, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u5	Mr President, I was particularly interested in the euregional aspect and the possible evolution in this area. I suggest we follow that up together. I know I can always go to your cabinet, which sometimes lets me know interesting things proactively. I believe I was able to launch the pilot project at the time. I see that the necessary steps are being taken to further roll out the project in Limburg and Antwerp and also in the other two places. I might be able to make some suggestions for good federal officials who can do a very good job there. Maybe I'll tell you off the record.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u6	Minister, I went to Vresse-sur-Semois, a charming place, which I recommend to you, well known to lovers of good air. In fact, the press had reserved a small echo. I had been arrested about the state of the fire station in Vresse-sur-Semois. This volunteer fire brigade depends on the DINAPHI rescue zone (Dinant/Philippeville), one of the three areas of Namur province. Their working conditions are quite deplorable: confined space, old age, lack of health, danger of collapse. It's an old hangar that no longer meets any safety standards. It is quite surprising to see a security service housed in such conditions. The project of a new barracks in Alle-sur-Sémois led by the rescue zone has been the subject of a process of development for almost ten years. Plans were presented. They are contested by the officers who are members of this volunteer fire brigade in Vresse who have asked the president of the rescue zone for some facilities, including the extension of the locker room and garages, for questions of manoeuvring and storage of the equipment. The president of the relief zone does not seem to follow up on the practical recommendations of tradesmen or volunteers, who know what they are talking about in terms of managing their cartage, among other things. Is there a regime for the inspection of fire stations and rescue services, in general, by the Inland FPS? Has it been found that equipment and infrastructure would not meet safety standards, including fire prevention? It is paradoxical that emergency services are not housed in buildings that meet safety standards. Where there is a conflict between policy makers and operational staff, should there be no need to consider mediation or even recommendations on the type of infrastructure development? It would be quite logical for reference standards to be provided by the services of the Inland FPS to know how to design infrastructure for buildings that must house services as essential as emergency services. I would like to know whether you can, through your services, play an intermediate and conciliatory role between a visibly fairly closed political management vis-à-vis the expectations of the staff and the representatives of the fire department concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u7	First of all, I would like to point out that since the reform of the fire services, the rescue areas have had their own legal personality and have considerable autonomy in determining the means necessary to fulfil their legal mission, including the rehabilitation of their barracks. I am aware of the problem raised by your question and my services are aware of the situation of the position of Vresse-sur-Sémois. As mentioned in your question, the president of the DINAPHI area also recognizes that the conditions under which the firefighters of Presse-sur-Sémois work are unacceptable. It also stresses that this situation dates back well before the establishment of this zone. This problem has been raised by the inspection services, which remain attentive to it in their monitoring task. Inspection services also verify that barracks standards and working conditions are in compliance. My inspectors are vigilant in their task of monitoring and accompaniment to the rescue zones because, since the beginning of this reform, no inspections have been carried out in the first few years and the tasks were simply accompaniment. It should also be noted that the minister does not have direct jurisdiction to impose work in a barracks, but, as you say, we can act as an intermediary. Next week, I went to another area to see how to get things going because there are still other problems to be solved. This problem is the result of the non-investment of certain municipalities in the rehabilitation and compliance of certain barracks. The areas only inherited barracks in the state in which they were transferred to the areas. This is not a reform problem but rather a problem that the reform will finally solve because the scale is larger. In this regard and according to my information – I will check on the ground – the DINAPHI area launched in 2016, the work on the barracks, with a view to adapting it to the current human and material means. This work is expected to be completed by the end of this year. A meeting was also held between the staff of the barracks and the area's prevention adviser and its logistics director, in order to ease the tensions and fears of the firefighters. On this occasion, some of the firefighters' requests were met, taking into account the situation of the barracks, the use of rolling stock, the number of interventions, the availability of staff and the realities of the terrain (extension of the changing room, creation of a small classroom, creation of a floor for washing vehicles). Furthermore, it should be stressed that the Civil Security Reform Committee does not have the role of finding solutions to these types of problems. Indeed, it is responsible for an overall analysis of the effects of the reform and not of the resolution of local disputes, which are also the result of a situation that existed before the reform. I agree with you. I can act as an intermediary and I will do so because I am going to visit next week, I think, the DINAPHI area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u8	My question has come to the fore, as long as we can use this expression about firefighters! Minister, thank you for your attention to this issue. First, the outdated situation of the building is not the responsibility of the current emergency zone. Clearly, it is a legacy and many municipalities have not continued to invest in buildings at one time because they were waiting for the reform of the relief services. They considered that they no longer had primary responsibility in this area and that they were no longer required to invest. It is regrettable but it was the reflex of some municipalists a little close to their finances. Secondly, as far as the accompanying work is concerned, I am pleased that it is in this sense that the inspection and the accompanying committee are working. I believe that this work is useful because, for police services, it is customary – it is up to you to see the basis you will give, through circulars or other legal forms – whether there are a number of recommendations on how to design a fire station. Indeed, it is not an ordinary building, it is not an administrative building. It is a building that must meet not only safety standards, it goes without saying, but also efficiency criteria for the operationality of services. If, gradually, he could draft some kind of good practice guide on how to design such an infrastructure, it would be useful, especially for emergency zone managers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u9	Minister, a change in police assistance to bailiffs has been under way for some time now. The aim is to reduce the systematic assistance from the police to the bailiff and to reduce systematic assistance from the police to where necessary and requested. However, this requires a thorough exchange of information between the police and the bailiffs concerned. In order to structure and, where possible, computerize that information exchange, it was agreed that the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs and the Home Office would draw up a protocol. As soon as the protocol was completed, a possible legislative amendment would be considered. I already questioned you about this in July 2016. Then you said the protocol would normally be ready by the end of 2016. At that time, you also said that legislative changes would certainly be necessary, for example on the possibility of impounding the house without the obligatory presence of the police. I therefore have the following follow-up questions. Is the protocol now in the final phase? Can you explain it and outline the further timing? In the meantime, do you have any more clarity as to what legislative changes are needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u10	Ms. Lahaye-Battheu, in June 2016, the working group "Optimising assistance to bailiffs and notaries" have made proposals to my cabinet. The proposals were confirmed in October 2016. On 20 December 2016, a working meeting was held in my cabinet to take stock of the situation. As indicated, the proposals were formulated and are currently being discussed at the federal level with the Justice Department. The next step is to conclude a protocol agreement with the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs. The necessary meetings will be held in the coming weeks. Once the protocol has been completed, we will consider whether a legislative amendment is necessary. We may be able to conclude the protocol within the current legislation, but that depends on it. Justice is still looking at it. When that work is done, it may well be that we can conclude the protocol without amending the law. If it is necessary to amend the law, we will start that process immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u12	Mr Blanchart is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u13	Mr Vice Prime Minister, as a result of European regulations, all new passenger cars must be equipped with an automatic emergency call system from 31 March 2018. The principle is that a car involved in an accident spontaneously sends a call to the emergency services via emergency number 112. This should lead to fewer deaths and injuries in traffic and shorter traffic jams. At Belgian level, it was announced that there would be a filter plant to separate false from real emergency calls. The filter plant would analyse the emergency calls and only when it would prove necessary would emergency services be notified. It has not yet been decided who would finance this additional power station, the taxpayer or the car brands, some of which already have a similar alarm system on board their cars today, with a call centre of the car brand informing the emergency services. Apart from the additional power plant, Member States should adapt their emergency power stations by 1 October 2017 in order to make it technically possible to receive eCalls. Questions have already been asked about this, including in April 2015. Then you replied that you want to develop a system in our country that offers the greatest possible added value to victims who can contact the emergency rooms quickly and smoothly, and to emergency services by ensuring that emergency power stations do not become overloaded by eCall calls that do not appear to be genuine emergency calls. You also said that the texts were being prepared and that Belgium, together with five other Member States, had joined the harmonised eCall European pilot project. Information and experience on pilot projects shall be exchanged through that platform. Minister, what is the state of play in the preparations for the introduction of the eCall system? What steps have already been taken? What else has to be done? What's the timing? What are the positive and/or negative experiences of that European pilot project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u14	Ms Lahaye-Battheu, the project is ongoing and meets its objective of implementing the technical infrastructure in Belgium in order to receive all eCall calls from 1 October 2017. This is in accordance with the Delegated Regulation of the EU No. 305/2013. From April 2018, eCall shall be installed in all new vehicle models. There are two eCall systems, a private eCall system and a public eCall system. In the system of private e-call, car manufacturers today order private companies to handle the e-call messages coming from their vehicles. Those firms will filter the calls and transmit only the urgent cases to the emergency centres 112. In order to be able to transfer calls to emergency centres, private firms will have to be recognised in accordance with the KB on minimum standards. After being recognized, they will be able to receive long telephone numbers from the emergency centres and thus be able to contact the competent emergency centre directly. In the public e-call system, all car manufacturers are required to integrate an e-call module into any newly sold vehicle from April 2018. In order to avoid e-calls of vehicles entering 112 directly into our emergency centres, even if there is no real urgency that could mortgage the deployment of emergency services, it was legally foreseen that e-calls should be filtered. The 112 aid centres will be ready to receive e-calls by October 2017. In the coming weeks, the services concerned, namely the FPS Home Affairs, the FPS Public Health and the Federal Police, will study the most efficient filtering solutions. In collaboration with ITS.be, Belgium participated in the harmonised e-call European pilot project, HeERO 2. With this programme, Belgium has been able to develop a technical proof or concept for the management and transmission of data and calls. We are relying on that system, which will equip our aid centres. Experience with HeERO has been positive, as it has given my services the opportunity to test European standards and standards. This was done on a prototype, taking into account the devices and functionalities currently used. In addition to the technical aspect, we are currently working on the regulatory aspect, in particular the drafting of three texts. Firstly, there is the RB on minimum standards, i.e. minimum staff requirements and organisational, technical and infrastructure resources for the monitoring companies, internal surveillance services and security services, which defines the conditions for a filtering plant to obtain the necessary accreditation. This is currently before the Council of State for its opinion. A second KB is the KB verification, which sets out the procedures for handling an incoming e-call, how to manage the call and how to transfer it, if necessary, to the competent service. Its text is currently being prepared. Then there are the KB training courses, the KB of 21 December 2006 on vocational training and experience requirements, the psychotechnical research requirements for the performance of a management or executive function in a monitoring company or internal monitoring service, and the recognition of training. It lays down the training courses to be followed by the operators of the filtering plant in order to obtain recognition. The text is currently being prepared. By the way, I'm going to the Motor Show next Saturday afternoon at the invitation of the car manufacturers, where they want to discuss some elements about eCall with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u15	Thank you for the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u16	Mr Minister, since 1 January 2017, the maximum speed on roads outside the built-up area has been reduced from 90 km to 70 km in Flanders. One of the main arguments for this was that this is a translation of the existing situation and that thousands of road signs could disappear from the street. The road image would become more readable. However, the introduction of this new rule revealed a problem with enforcement. The computer system ISLP, which makes the minutes for speeding offences, would not have been provided for this amendment of the Road Code. It was therefore not possible to draw up a proper report for exceeding the new maximum speed. An update of the system should ensure that proper records can be made in the future. Can you confirm that the computer system was not adapted in time? Have the necessary updates taken place in the meantime? What is the reason for being non-timely available? Has the absence of this update led to a certain period of time when no minutes could be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u17	I can confirm that the ISLP system was indeed not modified in time. Meanwhile, the necessary updates took place. The reason why this did not happen in time is because the periods to adjust the ISLP system are very limited. The system is used 24 hours a day. So one has to have a lock in order to be able to adjust that. This is because adaptation to the ISLP system is both technically and procedurally a very labour-intensive operation. It calls for the collective cooperation of different services and individuals. As a result, one could not be finished on 1 January 2017. However, the ISLP system could be adapted within the time limit allowed for the drafting of a report. There has indeed been sufficient consultation on this issue with the Flemish Region. I heard from the competent department that no mobile control was delayed or abolished and that the fixed camera performances were normal. I am also not informed of the fact that the late adjustments to the ISLP system would have prevented the drafting of traffic records. This may have led to certain records of traffic being drawn up later but still within the legal deadline. The period during which the ISLP system was not available was shorter than the period during which it was possible to draw up minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u18	In the meantime, Minister, everything is fine, but when exactly was the system in order?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u19	It wasn't okay on January 1st. We are 18 January today. I can't say exactly, but in this short period that has been put right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 15766 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Metsu's 15768 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u21	Mr Minister, in your reply to my written question of 14 April 2016, you said that no decision had yet been taken on the restructuring of civil protection and that the social dialogue would be given every opportunity in this respect. As far as I know, there is still no definitive conclusion in the file, but there are still more and more indications that the closure of the Jabbeke barracks is being taken into account. For example, mutations from professional agents to Jabbeke would be refused, while mutations in the opposite direction, to Liedekerke or Brasschaat, still happen. As a result, the Jabbeke barracks are already obliged to close on some days due to understaff. Moreover, there is great uncertainty among the staff, which would rightly like to be clarified. I have the following questions. Firstly, is it true that, although there is no decision on reform yet, unofficial measures are being taken to speed up the closure of Jabbeke's barracks? Secondly, who has decided on these measures? I'm talking about refusing mutations, introducing closing days and so on. Thirdly, during Jabbeke's closing day, staff from the other barracks must intervene in an intervention in West Flanders. Are they familiar with the material provided for at sea, for example in the case of pollution, and with other specialised equipment? Fourthly, where is the discussion on the civil protection restructuring plan in general? When will you make the decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u22	Minister, a reform of civil protection was indeed announced. In doing so, the tasks of current civil protection and fire zones will need to be reviewed. In view of this, it looks at what will happen with the tasks, powers and activities in the existing barracks of Jabbeke, Brasschaat and Liedekerke. What tasks will be carried out by whom? How far is the reform going? Which of the current tasks will the existing barracks still have to take on? Are certain tasks taken over by other services? Where are we on the implementation of the new plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u23	Mrs Becq is not here to ask her question and I am therefore giving the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u24	Mr President, I shall first answer Mr De Vriendt's questions. It is not the case that unofficial measures are taken prior to a discussion. The adapted operation in Jabbeke since 1 December 2016 has been driven by the evolution in available staff and not by the future of the unit. I want to be very clear about that. The decision to introduce the closing days was taken by the internal responsible hierarchy. After all, it is the responsibility of the Director-General of Civil Protection to make the best use of available operatives in terms of personnel and materials at all times, taking into account the procedures in force. Staff members of the unit at Brasschaat and Liedekerke were indeed trained to intervene with this material. It is not, therefore, because the material for, for example, sea-related tasks is in Jabbeke, that the people in other units do not have the competence to work with that material. The reason for this is obvious. If there are long-term actions at sea, civil protection will be mobilised from everywhere to provide hand-and-string services. Your fourth question, Mr De Vriendt, was also asked by Mr De Groote, namely what progress has been made on the restructuring plans. I can tell you that the analysis, proposals and discussions on rationalization of units are at an advanced stage. There are still different scenarios. It would be premature to set a date for the political decision. However, I agree with you both that time is short. I am therefore making every effort to ensure that the government takes a decision on this matter as soon as possible. I tend to call things the way they are. This decision should have been taken a long time ago, but it does not appear to be so easy within the coalition. Take it from me that I'm on the same page as you are. This discussion has now gone on long enough and must now lead to a decision as soon as possible. Mr Degroote, decisions at the core level have already been taken. What is the future of civil protection now that the fire department reform has been implemented? I have always regretted that only the fire department has been reformed, not the whole chain, in particular urgent medical aid and civil protection. It would have been better if this had been done at the same time, but that has not happened. As far as civil protection is concerned, we have given careful thought and discussed the future of the changed landscape and of the future, at least in the near future, of larger, professionalised firefighters. Is there a future and what is the future of civil protection? Let me be very clear about that. Yes, there is a future for civil protection, with three tasks. Firstly, specialized tasks, where specialization can mean two things, either because it requires specialised staff or because it requires specialised equipment. That's one job. The second task is long-term tasks, in the event of floods, for example, or in the event of an incident such as the heath fire in Kalmthout, which lasted for days. That usually exceeds the capacity of a fire zone. Then it is also civil protection that supports long-term tasks. The third task component is the CBRN, the chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear substances. These are the three tasks of civil protection. Call it the second line. The first line is the fire zones, the new safety zones. They can call on civil protection to act in the second line in these three areas. I think I have also answered Mr Degroote's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u25	Minister, you say that you are naming things as they are, for which I appreciate, but perhaps you can explain the different views of the coalition partners? However, naming things as they are would be very informative in that respect. There should not be any discussion about the usefulness of civil protection. The working with volunteers can also be very interesting, including for the public's support and awareness raising. Social services are a useful value in our society, but we believe that the reform must take account of a reasonable distribution of barracks, a reasonable distribution of civil protection units. Jabbeke's closure doesn't fit that picture. We would therefore like to advocate keeping the barracks of civil protection open in Jabbeke. This is not the only reason, but we are particularly in favour of it, because they are closely linked to the maritime sector. If action is required, the distance is bridgeable and can allow rapid intervention. I would ask you once again to take that into consideration. I have already asked you a number of questions in this connection. Once again, I urge you to keep the Jabbeke barracks open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I can also agree perfectly with this definition of jurisdiction. Some of the powers are assigned to the fire zones. The specific competences for civil protection are in the interest of general security. This certainly does not deny the future and the importance of civil protection. With regard to Jabbeke, I note that the fact that only four fifths are worked there is due to internal personnel situations, but has nothing to do with a possible closure or decisions about the future. What we are asking for is that an objective analysis be made for all barracks, regardless of political games. I sometimes have the impression that people want to play too much politically in that dossier. However, general safety must be taken into account. However, an important domain is the North Sea. A structural solution is needed for this. Your services will probably know that and will also pay attention to it. However, I would like to thank you for all your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u27	Mr President, I apologize for the delay: I was in the Committee on Justice. I thank my colleague and the minister for agreeing to move this issue forward. The Doel 4 plant was arrested on Wednesday, January 10, following a serious incident. A seriously injured worker was transported to the hospital as a matter of urgency. Could you give us any news of his state of health if you have any? Can you tell us exactly what happened this January 10th in Doel? Can you explain to us the consequences of this incident, the human and also the material consequences? Can you explain the causes? Are the injured person(s) members of ENGIE Electrabel's staff or are they subcontractors? What exactly were they working on? This incident is in the context of a weakening of the safety and security culture in our power stations. What has been the response of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCAC)? Is this incident classified on the INES scale? Why did the AFCN not immediately communicate on its site? I looked at his site before I put my question, there was still nothing. Of course, since I put my question about the reason for the failure of the PSAN to respond, the PSAN has responded. This happens, but I hope it has nothing to do with the filing of my question. I would like to remain in the proactivity we have spoken about recently. When was the last incident that had such a human impact in one of our plants? What was decided and put in place so that such an incident would not happen again, neither in Doel nor in Tihange?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u28	Minister, as you know, on January 10, 2017, an incident occurred in the non-nuclear part of Doel 4. The AFCN classified this incident at level 0 on the INES scale. AFCN states that: "The incident occurred because of an irregular connection between the nuclear power plant and an external high voltage station. This resulted in a controlled vapour exhaust, some of which escaped via a ventilation grid to the engine room where a worker suffered burns in his hands." I hope that this worker is doing better and that his recovery is promising. I continue my reading: "In accordance with safety procedures, the reactor then automatically stopped. ENGIE Electrabel notified the incident to the authorities with a level N1. This level means that it is an event with no impact on the population and the environment, but involves the activation of the nuclear emergency plan as a preventive measure. After further analysis, the situation proved to be under control. The federal crisis management phase was therefore not triggered. The operator and the authorities are still examining the cause of the incident. ENGIE Electrabel and AFCN immediately performed the radioactivity measurements. The results showed that the incident had no radiological consequences." Minister, do you confirm the information referred to a posteriori in the AFCN press release? Have you received any additional information since then? Can you provide us with more information on the causes of this incident? What does this "irregularity in the connection between the nuclear power plant and an external high voltage station" mean? What are the conclusions drawn by AFCN as a result of this incident, all in the context of a culture of safety, as has been mentioned in our previous committee meetings?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u29	Of course, I confirm the information provided by AFCN concerning this incident. On 10 January, the Doel 4 reactor was shut down due to the unavailability of one of the external power supplies. As a result of this unavailability, the reactor was safely shut down. The Doel 4 reactor backup diesel generators have been started to provide electricity to the safety systems and they have functioned properly. During the shutdown, part of the vapour discharged into the atmosphere was recovered by the engine room ventilation system and injected into it. The presence of steam in the engine room caused an alarm to be triggered, suggesting to the operators in the control room that an accident was in progress, which led the operator to notify the occurrence according to a criterion that did not correspond to reality, and to a significant mobilization of the AFCN and the Crisis Centre. This event caused, through the presence of steams in the engine room, a serious accident from the point of view of conventional safety. This incident had no radiological or safety consequences in general and had no impact on the health of other workers, the population and the environment. The injured person is a subcontractor. This person held a surveillance position in the engine room. This unavailability of one of the external power supplies is the result of a poor operation on electrical equipment carried out by the operators of the high-voltage electricity transmission system in Belgium. The hypothesis of a malicious act is ruled out. Contrary to what is stated in the question, this event does not fall within any context of weakening the safety culture. The origin of this event is at the level of a bad operation on the equipment being not the responsibility of Electrabel. As part of this event, the AFCN did not make any negative remarks regarding safety culture. The reactor was shut down in a safe condition and the reactor restarted only after an understanding of the causes of the problem and corrective action had been taken. Following initial notification by the operator at too high a level in relation to the actuality of the facilities, AFCN mobilized at its internal crisis centre and sent a team of experts to the Government Crisis Centre. AFCN monitored the event live and quickly found that the safety level impact of the event was non-existent. However, AFCN asked Electrabel to examine the root causes of the unavailability of one of the external power supplies and organised, the day after the event, a control of BelV at the level of Doel 4. The AFCN, on the other hand, has no competence in the follow-up of the occupational accident. The event was classified at the zero level of the INES (International Nuclear Event Scale) scale due to the lack of nuclear safety impact. As is the case for all INES-listed events, AFCN has communicated once the INES level has been set. It should also be noted that, in view of the lack of safety impact, IAEA and the INES manual consider that it is optional to report an event classified at the zero level of the INES scale. Nevertheless, in the interest of transparency and in view of the event's media interest, the AFCN decided to communicate about the event. The impact is at the level of conventional security, which is not part of AFCN's missions. In order to know when the last incident had such a human impact in one of our plants, it is necessary to contact Electrabel or the authority responsible for conventional safety. Action has been taken by Electrabel to increase the level of consultation with the operator of the high-voltage electricity transmission system in Belgium and to make it aware of the potential impact of any mishandling on the electrical circuits supplying nuclear power plants. These actions will also have to cover the situation at the Tihange nuclear power plant. On the other hand, the AFCN has no control over the actions taken in the field of conventional safety as a result of this accident at work, since these matters are not within its competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u30	Minister, I would like to share with you three points in my response. First, the course of the event seems strange to me. Steam escapes and returns immediately, without knowing how, to the engine room where it causes an incident affecting a worker present. As far as I know, this is a rare first or event, but are we sure that this is not going to happen again? It is strange that this steam escapes from the chimney and then returns inside. I therefore intend to collect as much information as possible about this event. Secondly, I would like to go back to the separation you are making between nuclear and non-nuclear. The incident did not occur in the nuclear part of the site, and there is little concern from the AFCN. However, the incident took place within a nuclear power plant and the impact on citizens who consider it to be a nuclear power plant must be taken into account. Moreover, what is happening in the outside part of a nuclear power plant can very quickly have consequences for the nuclear part. This has not been the case here, but the AFCN's internal crisis unit has mobilized itself, as you have said, as well as the Brussels Crisis Centre, as is the case in real incidents that require the presence of AFCN. It's weird, to say the least. This separation of communications is problematic and I would like to address this in my third point. The AFCN chooses to communicate, or not, when it is a level 0 INES. The case law tries to install the doctrine of reacting, of communicating when the media speak about it. Imagine what that means! When there is an incident, we will not learn it, unless we can get the information, we will give it to the media, which give it a little bit of scope, so the AFCN communicates about this incident. Communication on INES 0 is a problem. We need to continue to think about developing a proactive communication from the AFCN. Everyone's talking about it, everybody's waiting. I invite people to have the reflex to go check on the AFCN site when they hear about an incident at a nuclear power plant. She's not talking about it. But with social networks, everything goes very quickly. The official media are also talking about it. Electrabel communicates about events. But are we sure about the information? The ideal would be to go to the AFCN site, but the concern is that it does not announce anything to the public, unless there are too many outside noises on the subject. There is a way to improve the choice of communication policy around INES 0. On INES 1 and 2, AFCN is obliged to transmit information, it is automatic. On the other hand, of course, we hope that the worker will be fully and as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u31	Minister, we are always attentive to all events. The last intervention in the nuclear safety sub-committee, together with Mr Bens, in relation to the safety culture and the letters sent to Electrabel and ENGIE's mother house, makes us even more attentive to this dimension. I reserve my questions in particular on the safety culture for the forthcoming committee. Following your presentation of the events, it remains that, in the word of the press release, there is "irregularity" between the connection of the nuclear power plant and the high voltage station. Technically, this may not be your exact skill, but it remains that this word is surrounded by a blurred area. I will come back to that in the next sub-committee on nuclear safety on the subject, because we need to clarify this term to reassure people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u32	That's why Electrabel is in contact with the supplier to lighten things up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u33	I therefore hope that we will have the result of the explanation without having to ask you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u34	I can give it to you, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u35	Mr President, Minister, in 2015, the Directorate-General for Institutions and Population of the Internal FPS registered 317 complaints of identity usurpation and the figures for 2016 are equally appealing. The use of the Internet - especially social networks, including Facebook - facilitates the transmission of user data, which is easily recoverable by criminals. Identity management in Belgium has also been undermined in an international report. To combat identity fraud, you have taken several steps, Minister, to improve the detection of false documents at the municipal level by giving them access to the photos and signatures used. Minister, what other means will be used to protect citizens' data on the Internet and on social networks, as well as on identity management in Belgium? Are you considering information and awareness-raising measures for citizens on data security? What forms will these preventive measures take?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u36	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, I have decided to act in a more proactive way by taking various concrete actions towards the municipalities which are at the source of the identity chain and which, therefore, occupy a key position in the detection of identity fraud. By ministerial circular of 27 May 2016, co-signed by my colleagues, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, a coordinated approach to preventing and combating identity fraud at federal and local level has been developed and transmitted to municipalities, local police and Belgian consular posts abroad. As you point out, this circular also includes several concrete measures to improve the detection of false documents. By circular of 30 December 2016, the municipalities were also invited to participate in provincial training courses on combating identity fraud. Secondly, my services ensure that certain objectives are pursued and achieved in the Framework Note for Comprehensive Security (NCSI) and the National Security Plan 2016-2019 (PNS), approved on 7 June 2016. Ten priorities for the coming years are defined in terms of general security and are structured around five cross-cutting themes, including identity determination and identity usurpation. Various objectives will be pursued in improving and continuously securing the physical security of identity and travel documents as well as the procedures for issuing, raising awareness among the various target audiences and improving the flow of operational information between the actors involved in the fight against identity fraud. In 2016, the Helpdesk of the Directorate-General for Institutions and Population received 483 reports and 317 in 2015 that could indicate identity fraud. We work closely with our partners on awareness raising. These partners include the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) and Europol. As far as the CWB is concerned, this is done through information campaigns such as Safeonweb, for example. We are also collaborating on information campaigns organised by Europol, for example, No More Ransom (NMR). We distribute these campaigns through our police channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u37	Thank you very much, Minister, for all this information. This is indeed a very important subject. I'm very glad to see that you're taking things with you. You may not know that, but I have been fighting for several years, particularly with regard to the ease of identity theft when applying for consumer credit. This is just one example among others. It is true that collaboration with the communes is very important, as is awareness-raising, knowing what to pay attention to when you are presented with an identity card that is not the person's. A lot of drifts have been found. Of course, in the security context we know, it is important to keep the European dimension in order to be able to combat it effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u38	Mr President, Minister, a recent study by the University of Tilburg in the Netherlands highlights the importance of means of communication and, in particular, the role of instant messaging and social networks in reducing crime. This system, through the use of applications such as WhatsApp, would have resulted in a 50% decrease in infringements in the Netherlands. In fact, you communicated about this last week. There may be some redundancy with what has been said. I apologize in advance. Mr Minister, you explained that the police are not left behind because they already have a charter governing the way in which they communicate with citizens and that they are very active via SMS and certain social networks such as Twitter and Facebook in local preventive partnerships (PLP). My questions are a little more specific because it has aroused some emotion and interest in my region. How many local preventive partnerships currently exist in the German-speaking Community? What are the means used to enable the development of these PLPs? Are PLP applicants for these new applications? How do you intend to implement these new means of communication? Do you think that the current means of communication are sufficiently effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u39	Mrs Jadin, at present there are no local preventive partnerships registered in the German-speaking Community according to the information obtained by my administration. Currently, there are 957 registered PLPs in our country. Current figures show that PLPs are very well known to citizens. PLPs are brought to the public's attention through different channels. First, mandated police officers play an important role in this regard. They can inform citizens of the possibility of creating a PLP and can also provide all local information. At the federal level, different instruments (a standard charter, a checklist, a staters kit, etc.) have been developed in order to simplify the creation of a PLP and the existence of PLP is promoted during various field visits and during prevention campaigns against burglary. PLPs will also be supported and supervised by the accompanying committee that has been set up at the federal level. The Committee will develop useful tools to stimulate and simplify the creation of a PLP and act as a facilitator in order to exchange good practices and obtain better collaboration between the partners concerned. Finally, existing local prevention partnerships are already playing an important role. Their success must be brought to the attention of all in order to make clear the added value of a PLP and also stimulate others to enter into such collaborative arrangements. My administration has been aware of the demand from local prevention partnerships to be able to use social media, including WhatsApp. Currently, collaboration is being established with a few partners to develop uniform guidelines for the use of social media, including WhatsApp, by PLPs, taking into account current regulations, i.e. the Privacy Act. These guidelines will be included in a new circular on local preventive partnerships, which will provide the basis for PLPs to integrate the use of social media into their day-to-day operations. I am in favour of the use of social media and mobile applications in the context of security and prevention, provided that this use takes place within the regulatory framework of PLPs. Social media is, in fact, a perfect complement to the traditional means of communication already used (telephone, text messages, email, newsletters, etc.).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u40	Of course, I'll join you in your analysis. We are, of course, faced with a balance which, as you rightly say, must be maintained between respect for privacy and all the consequences of this, on the one hand, and the legal framework in force, on the other. I understand that social media could be used but that, if I understood correctly, the framework in which it is used should be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u41	Mr President, Minister Roularta, the Flemish press group, has taken the decision to permanently stop the broadcast of comments posted on its websites because of regularly hateful, disrespectful or racist messages. The group had already undertaken to ban anonymous messages on its websites, leaving the possibility to post a comment only to people with a user profile. However, that measure did not prevent the most arduous users from creating false accounts in order to post hateful or disrespectful messages. Disrespectful comments on social networks or on the Internet are a hindrance to democratic debate and, ultimately, to freedom of expression, since it seems particularly complicated to limit them. Some comments are not deliberately hateful but are the result of a slippage that can affect all social classes. Minister, what steps can be taken to limit racist and hateful comments – a vague question, I agree with you? Would the current system limit the creation of false accounts by linking the person's IP address with his/her identity in order to empower him/her? In your opinion, would this measure be effective (especially with regard to implementation) and feasible? What sanctions are currently possible and on what criteria can they be applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u42	Mr. Chair, Ms. Jadin, the service provider could use a moderator to check the content of the messages before they are published. As a service provider, its criminal liability could be called into question when finding offences. More generally, the general terms and conditions of use of the service could clearly refer to the prohibition on the publication of messages contrary to the law. A posteriori, legal proceedings could be instituted against the perpetrators of hateful, negationist, xenophobic or any other message that harms a person's honour. However, it should be borne in mind that legal proceedings require an investigation to identify the author generally on the basis of the IP address used and that the current data retention times are very short. This therefore requires a rapid response to start prosecution after the infringement has been found. That said, both prosecutors and police services work on a priority basis based on criminal policy, their respective capabilities and the National Security Plan. This type of offence is, in fact, rarely prosecuted without a formal complaint from the victim. The education of the Internet user through the education system and awareness-raising campaigns is a preventive measure that should not be overlooked. As far as your second question is concerned, no, the current system does not allow it. The identity of Internet users is only known to access providers. Service providers such as Facebook, Roularta, Google do not have the right to access the personal data of Internet users. Indeed, where the Internet user is a client of an Internet Service Provider (ISP) or Internet Service Provider (ISP), the King's Attorney who must have been seized of a file may request that the identity of the subscriber be disclosed. In order to do so, he must make use of Article 46bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation on the basis of a request addressed to the ISP/ISP. In addition, the user's real IP address can easily be masked by easily accessible and free technical means. The IP address alone therefore does not guarantee the formal identification of the offender. It might be considered to require the user wishing to post a comment to identify himself with his ID card via an eID reader, just as it is already done for some federal sites such as MyPension or Tax-on-Web. But this will have to be decided by the service providers themselves, knowing that this system will reduce the accessibility of the network by the Internet user. This system therefore has its limits. On the one hand, it would be impossible for a mobile Internet user to identify himself from his smartphone or from certain tablets while these terminals are increasingly being used instead of a computer. On the other hand, this measure would only apply to Internet users with an electronic ID issued by a Belgian administration. Finally, eID identification is not an absolute guarantee against the slipping of some Internet users either. Your third question is not a matter of my jurisdiction but of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u43	Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, these are quite a few elements that already allow me to adjust certain ideas that are troubling me in the head to the level of proposals to be formulated. I believe that freedom of expression must exist and be guaranteed. But I think that any freedom of expression implies a responsibility. Being identifiable is one way to assume this responsibility. I am looking for ways to try to take legal action to combat this harmful phenomenon and which, in many cases, contributes to tragedies, sometimes personal. Indeed, any aggression is not necessarily prosecuted by the courts and is not necessarily the subject of a complaint. However, it is not that the victims do not suffer from it. And it's not just policies because they usually have a little more rounded back on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 15800 is postponed as he is on the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u45	Mr President, I did not know that it was a shift in the committee to ask at the beginning of the sitting to group all his questions. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has made me smarter in that regard and I am sitting here a little naively waiting for the third question from the three I wanted to ask today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u46	The quietest weasels drink the best eggs, we say in West Flanders. I don't know how you put it in Limburg. If you don't ask, you don't get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u47	Minister, I have a very specific technical question concerning the training of drug dogs in police services. Drug dogs are trained using real drugs. But the didactic material, as it is called, to train the dogs, is not so easily available; it is not purchased, but comes from seizures after which it is analysed to determine which drugs are involved. Then, of course, one also knows which drugs the dogs are trained with. Minister, what procedures are being used to control drugs and then make them available as didactic material?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u48	Mr Terwingen, the shifting of a question depends, in part, on the enormous generosity of the minister concerned, which is very minor in this committee. Now I will take your very legitimate question seriously. As part of the training and training of the drug detection dogs belonging to the Department of Dog Support of the Federal Police, DACH, seized drugs are also used through the various Registrys. The offer is certainly not regular enough and some products, e.g. opium, are no longer available, as they are still very rarely found. So far, these products have been replaced twice a year. Ideally, the products should be renewed three to four times a year in order to guarantee a certain freshness. Quality is also a problem, as there is no proper analysis of the composition of the seized products. The most common products are tested by the police only to confirm that they are indeed narcotics, but without further analysis of the composition. For heroin and cocaine, DACH works with the judicial police at Zaventem Airport. In the event of the seizure of those products, an analysis shall be carried out by the NICC in such a way that the exact composition is always known. In the context of the decision of the nuclear cabinet of December 2015 to designate DACH as a centre of expertise and training of the patrol and detective dogs of both the federal police and the local police, as well as of private companies, consultations with the NICC will be held shortly, including on the analysis of the narcotics and its possibilities. For the provision of narcotic drugs for the training and training of local police dogs, there are cooperation agreements between DACH and certain local police forces such as Antwerp, Leuven and Schaerbeek, whereby DACH is responsible for the management and delivery of the necessary products. The federal police are currently working on the project PACOS, a beautiful abbreviation for Pièces À Conviction - Conviction Documents. PACOS is a database and a tracking system of the seized goods in a criminal file, developed by the federal police in cooperation with the Justice Department. Through PACOS it will be possible to determine which goods were seized and where they are located. It will therefore be possible to find out where products are available for the training of drug dogs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u49	Minister, you gave a very detailed answer. Apparently, the problem is being worked on. I will follow up on this and perhaps ask a follow-up question in a few months' time to see where we stand. If the PACOS story applies to all seized goods, it will not be so difficult to search only narcotics via a digitized register. In this way, the operation with dogs, which is very important in the fight against narcotics, can be optimized.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 15800 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u51	Mr President, we are continuing our investigation into the exact contents of the Tihange swimming pools. Minister, you will recall that, during our exchange on 11 January, you told me that in December 2016, five pools corresponding to 2,663 spent fuel assemblies were already filled at the Tihange nuclear site. You also told me that the volume of an assembly was between 0.21 and 0.25 m3 depending on the units, which, broadly speaking, corresponds to more than 610 m3 of spent fuel stored in the pools of the DE building located at the Tihange site. But you couldn't give me the weight of those 2,663 spent fuel assemblies. Minister, do you confirm the information given earlier? Can you tell me what this means by weight? I am referring here to fuel, since in our previous exchanges you had alluded to the weight of water.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u52	Mr Nollet, of course I confirm what I said earlier. But I'm sorry to have to tell you that I cannot answer your last question because the information on the total weight of spent fuel in the pools in the ED building is classified as confidential. In so doing, it cannot be communicated, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 17 October 2011.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u53	Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u54	I don't know. I have only seen that this information is confidential. So I can't communicate it to you here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u55	You still told us about the content. Five pools are filled. Wasn't that information confidential?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u56	The information I provided to you during my reply last week was available. But the weight information seems to be confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u57	We can know the m3, but we can't know what that means in tons. Why is this information confidential? I can understand that this is the case with the location. This issue has already been discussed. Still, if we go to the sites and look at the documents, we find the location. On the other hand, it is not possible to find information on the weight.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u58	Mr. Nollet, the minister replied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u59	Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to understand why the information is confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u60	Mr President, Minister, at the same exchange, you made it clear to me that, unlike the reactor buildings that have a double containment system, the DE building, the one that houses the famous swimming pools that we have just talked about, is only equipped with a single enclosure. Can you first confirm to me that it is both the walls and the roof of this building that are only equipped with a simple thickness of enclosure? I would also like to go back to this problem because you did not answer me about the thickness of this chamber. How thick is this enclosure? I would also like you to tell me what this chamber is composed of: is it made of prestressed reinforced concrete and equipped with metallic seal skin, such as the reactor, or is it another compound? Last week, you're telling me that this DE building was designed to deal with certain projectiles. I want you to be more specific. What kind of aircraft is resisting this building, which houses the 610 m3 of spent fuel that has been used in our nuclear power plants in recent years? Can you guarantee us that this building is resistant to the fall of a Boeing 747 cargo version like those of the TNT company at the Bierset airport? Is there a study that proves that? I'm talking about a study on B747, not Cessna or F-16. I'm targeting the B747s as they take off and land at Bierset.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u61	Mr Nollet, indeed, both the walls and the roof of the DE building have only a simple reinforced concrete enclosure. I would remind you that, unlike a nuclear reactor building, where a double enclosure is provided to ensure that radioactive products are kept inside in the event of a design accident involving strong internal pressurization, the DE building does not have a double enclosure because it does not have to deal with this type of internal accident. As already answered, the DE building is actually "bunkerized" and is designed to deal with external accidents such as airline crashes, an explosion accompanied by a wave of shock and projectiles and to avoid the infiltration of explosive gases inside the installations. Information on the type of aircraft used in the design is classified as confidential and cannot be disclosed. The exact thickness of this enclosure is confidential and cannot be communicated. I would like to inform you that similar detailed questions concerning the resistance of other nuclear facilities to aircraft falls have not been answered in the past for the same reasons of confidentiality. A full re-evaluation of the risk of aircraft falling at Doel and Tihange sites had already been completed by the operator in 2002 and 2004, in response to the events of 11 September 2001 in the United States, and in 2011 and 2012 as part of the resistance test program. The results of these re-evaluations show that spent fuel storage pools are unlikely to fall due to the thickness of concrete walls and their location at a height very close to the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u62	Minister, that does not reassure me. The fact that these pools are not very vulnerable, but not knowing whether they could withstand a Boeing 747 of the kind found in Bierset cannot reassure parliamentarians or citizens. That you keep confidential information about the type of aircraft, etc., I understand, but you cannot guarantee the absence of risk. You say there's little risk, but it can still exist. Can you guarantee that a 747 will not be able to break this simple enclosure? Or do you claim that the risk exists for the 747? Or can't you say anything about the 747s?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u63	I can't say anything, because it's about the type of plane. This is confidential information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u64	Why? From the moment this is a physical reality in Liège, and when these aircraft are flying over the power station, could it be guaranteed that the power plant and the pool are able to withstand a fall in this type of aircraft?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u65	The information is confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u66	Is that yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u67	I won't answer. This information is confidential!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u68	I'm going to have to tell the citizens that we don't know if the power plant is able to withstand this type of aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u69	Because you don't know!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u70	And you can't tell them they have the necessary insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u71	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u72	You're saying the studies were done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u73	The studies were done, the evaluation was also done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u74	Can't we reassure them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u75	There is no additional action to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u76	But we can't reassure them about the 747s?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u77	We tested with airline planes and the tests were evaluated. There is no additional action to take!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u78	Mr Minister, according to my information, the tests that have been carried out on airline planes concern aircraft that are much less powerful than cargo and 747. It's not for nothing that I ask this question! I really regret that you are bound by this confidentiality, which prevents you from reassuring and informing people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u79	Minister, what prompted the introduction, in an order you signed in 2015, of a provision allowing Electrabel to request a postponement of the decommissioning of nuclear power plants? Has a request to that effect already been raised or even filed? I have already asked these two questions to your colleague Minister Marghem, but she has sent me back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u80	Mr Nollet, in fact, by a royal order of 10 August 2015, a provision was added concerning the delayed dismantling of nuclear installations. The objective of this Decision is to establish basic requirements in terms of nuclear safety for the preparation and execution of the decommissioning of a Class I nuclear facility or part thereof. These security provisions correspond to the transposition of a number of dismantling requirements that WENRA has established at European level. This Royal Order is applicable to all Class I nuclear installations and is therefore not intended solely for Electrabel. One of the new requirements also laid down by WENRA is to impose stricter conditions when an operator chooses a deferred dismantling. Prior to the introduction of this provision, the possibility of delayed dismantling already existed. This new order merely added an obligation of justification. In the event that the operator opts for a deferred dismantling, he must justify this choice in the notification of a decision to terminate the activity. This justification includes an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of the chosen strategy compared to those of immediate dismantling and an analysis of safety implications. In the case of a delayed dismantling, the operator shall draw up, prior to the cessation of activities itself, an adequate monitoring and maintenance programme which ensures the safety of the establishment during the period prior to the commencement of the dismantling and which shall not prejudice future dismantling. During the period prior to dismantling, the use of active safety systems, monitoring and human intervention to ensure safety is limited as far as reasonably possible and must be justified by the operator. No such request has been made by Electrabel to the Security Authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note that at this stage there is no request. But as far as motivation is concerned, I would like to reply because you say that, earlier, the delayed dismantling was already in the order of the possible. But I don't see what article in the old version of the decree you're referring to. In the new version, I see clearly when you introduce by the 2015 decree the possibility to do so. In the past, all models, including those of ONDRAF, are built exclusively on immediate dismantling. You say there will be additional conditions, which I applaud. The additional conditions are stricter and it's very good. But, according to you, it was already possible before. No, I don't! What was the article concerned in earlier versions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u82	We have simply adapted to the recommendations of WENRA...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u83	Indeed, in WENRA was mentioned the delayed dismantling but never in Belgium. In fact, the case was recently experienced in France where EDF, for financial reasons (the real motivation is financial), asked to dismantle their installations forty years later than had been planned. Imagine! The company will no longer exist, France already has so much trouble with EDF, its AREVA system, etc. I want to avoid a similar problem in Belgium. I would like you to clarify to me in Belgian legislation and not that of WENRA what, in the past, i.e. before your 2015 order, already allowed a delayed dismantling.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u84	I'll give you the number of the previous royal decree. I don't have it here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u85	I would like to receive your colleague's answer quickly because this week there was a delay. I note that you will send it to me and, if so, if the answer is not enough, I will come back to you.Thank you for the second part of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u86	Minister, in the parliamentary work leading up to the extension of the old Doel 1 and 2 nuclear power plants, Minister Marghem said: "A possible replacement of one of the two covers has not yet been decided. Detailed studies are under way. The planned budgets can be found under the main primary components, or "primary mechanics", of the table. The budget of the order of €80 million is shown in these amounts. But there is not yet a decision to replace. Replace only when necessary on the basis of the information collected." It can be assumed that the studies have now been completed. Minister, what are these studies doing? What decision has been made? Can you give us the more precise figure of the budget needed to do so? If this is not yet the case, at what time are we finally going to be fixed in this respect? I asked your colleague Marghem the same questions in committee, but she sent me back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u87	Mr Nollet, in the LTO synthesis report of April 2015, Electrabel indicated that new inspections on reactor covers were to be carried out in 2015 in order to assess, on the basis of the results, the need to replace them or the possibility of opting for repair strategies. The accessible results of the inspection indicate that these covers should not be replaced in the short term. However, the inspection results and studies show that some repairs on the Doel 1 lid are indicated for continued operation of the reactor over the long term. This is why it has been chosen to resort to repair operations using a qualified method. They are planned for the planned 2018 revision. Doel 2's lid is in good condition. Therefore, there is currently no need for compensation. The updated strategy – the repair of the Doel 1 reactor lid instead of the preventive replacement of the two lids – was exposed by Electrabel in 2016 to the security authorities. They approved it. In addition, lids are periodically inspected in accordance with international practice. Thus, the safety of reactor covers is always ensured. The Agency cannot comment on the budgetary impact of the above-mentioned activities, which are the responsibility of Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u88	Mr Minister, I begin with the budget impact section. The Federal Agency does not pronounce itself, I agree, but Minister Marghem sends me back to you. I therefore think that it is not the Agency, but you, as Minister of the Interior, who must give me the figures. This amount comes in the famous 700 million. She's telling me to ask you the question. You're sending me back to her. I will, but you two are playing some kind of ping-pong on this aspect. All I'm talking about is this one. Then I'll reply to the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u89	Mr Nollet, you will agree with me that I am the Minister responsible for AFCN. In other words, I am in charge of the security and safety of the facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u90	Yes, that's why I first questioned her.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u91	Mr. Nollet, you know my pragmatism. I will therefore contact Mrs Marghem to see how to provide you with the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u92	That's for the encrypted part, and I thank you for that. For the rest, there is a real problem for me. In the LTO filed in 2012, when Electrabel had imagined extending the life of nuclear power plants, replacement was planned as such. In 2015, the company says it's going to be expensive and plans to give it up. It values this in the 700 million, but commissions studies to see if it is worth it. In short, in 2012 we're going to do it, in 2015 we wonder if it's worth it and, in 2017, we give it up – in any case, not immediately: for Doel 1, we only have to repair, while it's good for Doel 2. That's not right! What a lack of seriousness! The replacement in 2012 was planned by Electrabel, not by AFCN. A miracle took place in 2015. Probably nuclear energy produces it on the lids to the point that it repairs them! It must be some kind of internal medicine. It's a little special, admit it. No doubt it's about the evolution of science... But, in the meantime, I'm not sure that security gains a lot. I said it with humour, as you will have noted, but you will suspect that the problem behind it is of importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u93	Mr President, Minister, in addition to the debates we have had in the subcommittee, can you tell us how many iodine tablets have been manufactured as part of the implementation of the last distribution campaign (under the forthcoming nuclear emergency plan) and what budget has this production required? Can you tell us which private and/or public operators have taken charge of this budget? I want to be confirmed that it is the operators who pay it and not the state budget. In our recent discussion in the nuclear safety sub-committee on the new emergency plan, you told us that from now on the tablets would be pre-distributed within a 20 km radius around the power stations and would be made accessible to pregnant women, nursing women and children in all pharmacies in the country. Can you tell us, in such a scenario, how many tablets will be manufactured and what is the approximate budget that will be needed (anything else remains equal to the last campaign)? Can you finally tell us how many more tablets would be to be manufactured if free access to them were not, beyond 20 km, limited to these categories that you have defined as priorities? If so, by applying a rule of three, can you give an approximation of the budget that would be required under this alternative scenario?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u94	Mr Nollet, as part of the campaign to distribute the 2011 iodine tablet distribution campaign, 4 million cans of iodine tablets were acquired. 10 tablets per box, that's 40 million. The cost of this production was EUR 1.56 million. The costs were borne by the Nuclear Fund, which was financed by nuclear power producers. These tablets were and are still distributed by pharmacies in an area of 20 km around nuclear facilities to all residents and communities in that area. Tablet stocks are present in the operational units of the Civil Protection for distribution at the moment even if necessary and in a central stock allowing the supply of the device in an area of 20 km. As part of the current Iodine tablet distribution campaign that is being prepared, the device as described above is retained. Iodine tablets are expected to be distributed in the rest of the country outside the 20 km zone. This distribution is aimed at vulnerable and specific target groups at first instance: children, pregnant women and breastfeeding women and communities for these target groups who will be actively encouraged to purchase iodine tablets. Distribution will be via pharmacies. A stock of iodine tablets will be permanently available in all pharmacies. However, no one is excluded. If, for example, grandparents who often take in their grandchildren want to buy iodine tablets, they can be obtained through pharmacies. A specification is being prepared for the purchase of iodine tablets. In this context and at the request of my colleague from Public Health, an additional purchase of 46 million iodine tablets is proposed in the first instance with the possibility of ordering, if necessary, additional iodine tablets. For now it is impossible to communicate the cost because it will depend on the market. The choice of targeted active encouragement, which has been made, has nothing to do with a budgetary issue, but with a question of usefulness and efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u95	Thank you, Minister. Your answer is clear as far as the past is concerned – 40 million iodine tablets distributed within 20 km and a budget of 1 560 000 euros. It's a little less clear about the new campaign. You're talking about an additional 46 million tablets. This means that we will have to recommend 40 million tablets for the 20 km around and 46 million more, which is 86 million. Or do the 46 million replace the 40 million? I guess it's extra. So the budget will have to be almost doubled, without taking account of market price developments. We will increase from 1.5 million to 3 or even 4 million. How much would it cost if we were to distribute them everywhere? Not much more, since we are already targeting pregnant women – which potentially means all young women –, nursing women, and children – who can be with their godfather, with friends,... Given the low costs and the fact that these costs are also covered – this is not the state budget – this would not exceed 10 million if these tablets were distributed to everyone. I do not see what prevents you from providing for these provisions. And I keep thinking, on the other side of your answer, that it would be more effective. Everyone would, would be responsible and reassured. As your final decision has not yet been made, and even though I know your starting option, I can only tell you to keep thinking now that we know the cost of the previous campaign. We can therefore imagine the cost of a campaign according to both options, and this cost would merit a general distribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u96	Minister, Tihange 1 power station has been under arrest since 7 September, more than four months now. Can you now tell us what the AFCN's analysis of the safety demonstration documents, particularly with regard to the seismic resistance calculations of the building, has given us? I asked you the question the time passed, but it was still in progress. I was waiting for feedback, but I didn't get it. I would like to rest the question because there is still an urgent need. At what level is resistance guaranteed? Is it a higher level than before September 7, 2016? Can you also tell us what still needs to be done and/or tested and/or analyzed before you can consider a possible restart? Has the operator transmitted all the elements necessary for the AFCN to carry out its analysis or are some documents and/or work still missing? Can you also tell us who is responsible for this closure of more than four months? To the subcontractor or to Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u97	Minister, as we know, Tihange 1 has been under arrest since September 7, 2016, following the uprising of a slab of a building. According to ENGIE Transparency, the Tihange 1 nuclear reactor will remain shut down until 15 February 2017. This date is provided by operators as part of the Regulatory on Wholesale Energy Market Integrity and Transparency (REMIT), but this does not mean that Tihange 1 will necessarily restart on that date. Is this February 15 date for restart confirmed? If not, do you have a realistic estimate of the start date? What work and analysis remain to be done before the reactor is put back into service? What is the latest information provided by the operator, AFCN and Bel V on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since September 2016, the situation in Tihange 1 has been the subject of many parliamentary questions: timing, accountability, progress in research. I therefore fear that I will have to repeat myself in my different answers. Nevertheless, I can give you the following update regarding the current state of the research. Mr Nollet, I have to make it clear that, in the context of informal questions, I do not get the answers from the AFCN very quickly. Formal questions have priority. It's not about making excuses, it's about clarifying things. As regards the work, the reinforcement of the ground under the W building as required prior to restarting was carried out. The safety authorities, AFCN and Bel V, have received most of the necessary documentation for the security assessment. Analysis of these documents is ongoing. The required level of security is the same as before September 7, 2016. The determination of financial responsibilities is not the responsibility of the Security Authority. As part of the analysis of the occurrence, the Authority shall take into account the elements, processes or other relevant to nuclear safety or radiation protection, in order to avoid the recurrence of a similar new occurrence. Mr de Lamotte, the Safety Authority cannot decide on the possible date for restarting the Tihange 1 reactor until all the safety studies provided by the operator have been evaluated and accepted. As in my previous replies, I can assure you that no relaunch can be envisaged without the approval of the Safety Authority. All safety demonstrations will be reviewed before the green light for restarting. I can repeat it every week and it will always be the same answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u99	Minister, I hear you well and, frankly, I understand the difficulties inherent in the need to provide the information quickly, but it was just a question of when we would be able to get a full answer. I didn't get an answer. That is why I am putting this question. The others are less urgent. The site has been closed since 7 September. We'll be seeing him soon. But your answer includes an inquiring element. I understood last week that all the studies had been carried out and that AFCN was studying them. Here you have just said that "most of the studies have been carried out and are being analysed". I just want to make sure I get it right. Do other studies still have to arrive?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u100	As I said last week, all documents are received. That is the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u101	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will await the announcement of the date to be set, following the validation of the complete studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u102	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Wouter De Vriendt's 15879 question was converted into a written question. I assume that my colleague, Gilles Vanden Burre, is also on a committee of inquiry at the moment. His question No. 15902 is postponed. Then we have three more questions from Mrs Lanjri. We tried calling her earlier and she was coming. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 15904 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u103	Minister, we agreed in the government agreement that a solution should be sought for stateless persons and that their procedure should also be improved. We now see that this is widely distributed in the courts of first instance. As a result, the expertise in the various courts is not always as good. Sometimes procedures also last 3 to 4 years. Minister None has proposed a draft, which is in the potpourri 5. That proposal would reform this. My questions to you are about the numbers. Can you give me an overview of the number of people currently registered as stateless or patriotic in our population and foreign registers in 2015 and 2016? The figures for the previous period have already given me an answer to another question. What is the overall number of people currently out of state? How many were registered in 2015 and 2016? Can you also give me the main regions or countries of origin from which these people come? It is not always possible to talk about nationality, because they often do not have nationality. Someone may come from a particular country, but they are still stateless, because they did not have the nationality there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u104	According to the data stored in the National Register on the observation date of 14 January 2017, so very recently, for the following number of persons registered in the population registers of a Belgian municipality, an information "fatherlandless' was registered in their personal file. In 2015 there were 164, in 2016 there were 149. The total number of persons registered as patriotic in the population register is 885. The persons who were recognized as patriotic are mainly from former Eastern Bloc countries or from countries or territories of the Middle East.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u105	Mr Minister, since October 2016, new parking tickets for people with disabilities have been issued with a QR code. As of this year, the police will be able to scan the QR codes with a smartphone to check the validity of the parking card. At the moment no less than 200 000 cards have expired, as Mrs Sleurs has told me. In this way, they could be removed from circulation for one piece. That's a huge number. The number of valid cards is about 380 000, I think. There is another problem when a valid card is used by the wrong person, which is abuse or fraud. In Bruges, 38 parking tickets were withdrawn last year. In the first two weeks of December, no less than 27 people were fined in Bruges who unjustly used a parking space for a person with a disability, while they were not themselves. That's been so much in one month, because the police really made it a priority back then. In many cities, such as Antwerp, since the introduction of the GAS legislation, community guards and staff of autonomous municipal parking companies such as the Antwerp GAPA can also identify parking violations. In addition, they can issue a fine if there is no parking card in the car or if that card has expired. Currently, parking guards have the devices to track persons using a parking card that is not intended for them, but they should not use it to check whether that driver or fellow passenger is entitled to use a parking card for disabled persons. They do not have access to the database of DG Persons with Disabilities, which is true for the police. Therefore, abuse cannot be dealt with efficiently in areas controlled by parking guards. You know that, for example, the city of Antwerp divides the city into areas which are still controlled by the police and areas controlled by the GAPA parking guards. A lot of fraudsters are lost because the parking guards are not allowed or able to control this. I've already asked Secretary of State Sleurs how we can solve that problem efficiently. A parking guard who does his rounds and sees a card lying around, can't call a cop to check the validity of the card in the car? By the time the cop gets here, the car might not be in the parking lot by now. Mr Minister, can you consult with Secretary of State Mr Sleurs so that community guards and staff of autonomous municipal parking companies can also access the database, with respect for privacy, of course, whatever the police. What other methods can you possibly see to deal with the problem efficiently? However, it seems to me most logical to give the parking guards the opportunity to check whether the tickets are valid. They also have the instruments to do so, so investment is not even needed. Is there a need for an amendment of the GAS legislation for this purpose? Would you do that if I were you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u106	Mrs Lanjri, I have a rather careful and comprehensive answer to the problem, which you are quite right to outline. The Royal Decree of 9 March 2014 lists the infringements and parking that can be sanctioned by a GAS. Article 2 (2) (d) of that Royal Decree defines the unlawful parking of a vehicle in a reserved parking space without the possession of a parking card for disabled persons as an infringement. This includes cases where the disability card has been cancelled or falsified. Currently, four categories of persons who establish an infringement pursuant to Article 21 (4) of the GAS Act, in particular police officers or police officers, municipal officials, in so far as they fulfil the conditions set out in Article 21 (1) (1) of the GAS Act, and staff of autonomous municipal authorities whose activities are limited to the determination of depenalised parking infringements as well as to the infringements referred to in Article 3 (3) of the GAS Act and, finally, staff of the Brussels Capital Parking Agency. The Community guardians are not included in that list and are therefore not empowered to establish those infringements. According to Article 3 of the Law of 15 May 2007 on the merger of Community Guards, on the establishment of the Community Guard Service and amending Article 119a of the new Municipal Law, they are only competent to establish infringements of the municipal regulations and regulations under Article 119a, Paragraph 6 of the new Municipal Law, which may be the subject of administrative sanctions only. However, the infringements, including the infringement referred to above, concern mixed infringements and are therefore excluded from the powers of determination of the Community guardians. However, I intend to amend the above-mentioned law of 15 May 2007 in order to also empower the Community guardians to make those findings. That is not legally possible at the moment. The law needs to be amended first. Your first question therefore needs to be nuanced in that sense, since only the staff of autonomous municipal parking companies are currently competent to carry out those findings. The issue of a parking card for disabled persons is the responsibility of the Secretary of State, Mrs Sleurs. The Directorate-General for Persons with Disability at the Social Security Office is responsible for this. I am prepared to contact the Secretary of State in order to ensure that the checks on the use of these cards are carried out as efficiently as possible, provided that inspectors, police officers or other persons as I have described above can only check the presence of a valid card without being responsible for the management of the data of the persons to whom such cards are delivered. The delivery and management of the disability card is the responsibility of the FPS Social Security Office. In the first instance, the Directorate-General for Persons with Disability is the designated authority which, in addition to issuing the cards, also manages them. In addition, I refer to the Ministerial Decision of 7 May 1999 on the parking card for persons with disabilities. That decision provides, inter alia, that the card may be withheld by a competent agent in the event of abuse. This can help the competent services of the FPS Social Security Office to manage the data of persons holding a parking card. For the sake of consistency, I think it would be advisable for all categories of persons to have the same opportunity to verify whether or not a person uses a parking card for disabled persons correctly. If this requires an amendment of the GAS law or other legislation, I will certainly consider it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u107	Minister, I am pleased to hear your reply in the sense that you and Mrs Sleurs would like to see how the parking guards can check whether the parking tickets used are valid. I've never asked more than that. Management and distribution are, of course, for the DG Persons with Disabilities. I ask no more than that a code red is used as a speech, if the card is no longer valid. That's the only thing the investigators should be able to see. It is also positive that you are willing to amend the legislation so that all the decision-makers can check its validity. Today there is a problem in this area, which leads to inefficient action, which leads many to dance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u108	Mr Minister, my final question concerns the AIG's audit report on the aviation police. I actually submitted this question a long time ago, in November or December. On 14 December she was on the committee but then there were too many questions and I was willing to turn them into a written question. However, I have not yet received an answer, which obliges me to ask this question again. Otherwise, of course, I could have gotten the answer in writing. It is reported that the AIG has made an audit report on the aviation police. It has come about in the context of the repatriation of displaced refugees. This audit report is in addition to the annual report prepared by the AIG on the forced return of people without papers, on which much has been done in recent days.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u109	A lot?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u110	Well, there were articles about that for three days. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u111	Tomorrow? I don't know. I don't have a visual on what the reporters will be writing tomorrow. Mr Minister, could you explain the reasons for the request for an audit? Was there a specific reason? Was that requested following some kind of incident or some kind of trouble? What were the findings of the AIG in the audit? What conclusions were drawn? What will you do with the conclusions, recommendations if any or the findings? Could you give that report to Parliament, possibly added to the written report?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u112	Mrs Lanjri, the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police has asked the general inspection to carry out an audit on the removal process carried out within the aviation police. So it's not a question of an aviation police review. The central question of this audit was how the removal process is carried out within the aviation police. The starting point was the part of the disposal process, which is carried out by the members of Zaventem's aviation police involved in this process. This audit focused on the functionality of the removals, but not on the Team Removals within the Aviation Police section Brussels National. The audit report sought to provide a diagnosis of the way the federal police control the aspects of the functioning of removal orders under investigation. The audit report should encourage federal police leaders to consider the risks that jeopardise the achievement of removal targets and also motivate them to develop appropriate control measures that also address the needs and expectations of all relevant stakeholders in a permanently changing context. The conclusions of this audit are as follows: The escorts carry out their removal orders professionally and humanely. The aviation police should strengthen its internal functioning and bring it to a higher level of organisation. A shared organisational culture as a breeding ground for a strong organisation with leaders who set the tone, especially in terms of integrity, deontology, people management and strong leadership, is essential. As regards removal orders, the LPA Brussels has taken national measures and initiatives to comply with the recommendations of the Vermeersch 1 and 2 committees and the validation committee escorts. This results in an approach bearing in mind the basic principles, although not all recommendations have received the same attention. Several of the measures and initiatives taken require an evaluation, update or integration. While the focus of this audit was on the removal process in the aviation police, its complexity and sensitivity should not be overlooked, as should the role of each of the stakeholders. Optimisation of the disposal process is not a matter for the aviation police alone. Only together can all the relevant internal and external actors in the process achieve this within the policy framework of the competent authorities. Alignment and consultation between them is essential. They should continue to work towards an integrated and integrated approach to removal issues, respecting the basic principles. These basic principles are humanity, effectiveness, efficiency and safety. Finally, the implementation of a permanent monitoring, whether or not by a specific interdisciplinary and independent body, is appropriate to monitor the integrated and integrated approach, propose adjustments to optimise the implementation of the removal policy sensu lato, monitor achievements and provide accountability at political level. So much for the audit recommendations. As far as your last question is concerned, if Parliament so requests, the report will be communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u113	That is also my question, Minister, to deliver it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u114	You are a part of Parliament, you are not Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u115	Minister, I remember that you, like me, believe that it is important, more than ten years after the recommendations of the Vermeersch report, to re-evaluate them. My last question was in the public administration and in the supervision that any Member of Parliament may have. Hence my request to deliver this report. I assumed it would be delivered to all the committee members. The question comes from me and I propose that it be distributed to all committee members through the committee chairman, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u116	Deputy Prime Minister, the press reported that the federal police fleet will soon be equipped with a new drone with an infrared camera. This acquisition would aim to expand the scope of services, in particular to regulate traffic during road accidents. Of course, I welcome this investment, which contributes directly to the safety and mobility of our citizens. However, I would like to ask you the following questions. What specific tasks will be assigned to this new drone? When will the equipment be operational in the field? What is planned at the human resources level, particularly for training for its use? Finally, what will be the geographical allocation of this new drone?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u117	Air support management will soon acquire its third drone. This drone will be equipped with a multi-sensor camera, including infrared. The three drones will be implemented as part of law and order operations, as well as findings of road accidents, judicial investigations and searches for missing persons. The new Air Support Directorate equipment will be operational within a few months (spring 2017). Four members of this Directorate are already trained to fly this new aircraft. The new drone will be stationed at the central base of the Air Support Directorate at Melsbroek. The aim is to make it available to all police areas as well as to all integrated police directorates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u118	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u119	Minister, 39 victims were killed in the horrendous attack on New Year's Eve at a nightclub in Istanbul. One of the victims was a Limburg boy. A lot of hate messages and racist messages were posted on social media. There's been a lot of commotion about that. At that time, you responded very well and decisively. This was not the first incident in the past, and I am not under any illusions; unfortunately, such matters will continue to occur in the future. The so-called Internet Referral Unit of the federal police has been active on hate messages on social media since last year. You have indicated that hate messages, such as the death of the boy in Limburg, will be traced and prosecuted. Other crimes that are spread over the Internet or social media will also be detected and prosecuted in this way. I have the following questions for you, Minister. How many employees are currently working for that Federal Police Unit? Will this unit be strengthened? With how many FTEs, and what's the timing for this? How many crimes were detected in 2016? What infringements are we talking about? Can you give an overview of the main infringements? How many hate sparrows were identified following this concrete case of the Limburg victim of the attack in Istanbul? Were those haters tracked down? What kind of punishment do they risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u120	Mr Yüksel, the DJSOC/I2, the internet trecherche, which operates cross-sectionally and is responsible for the IRU, Internet Referral Unit, currently consists of 14 full-time equivalents. This concerns 1 police commissioner, 1 chief inspector and 11 police inspectors, and 1 CALog employee level B. The unit will be reinforced with 8 FTEs in the first half of 2017. There will be a second police commissioner, a second captain and six inspectors. These were selected in 2017 and will be taken to that DJSOC unit in the first half of 2017. In the occupation for DJSOC/I2, 10 FTEs internettrecherche and 23 FTEs IRU are provided as follows: The remaining vacant places will be placed in mobility in 2017. So a total of 33 people are added. We have already recruited 22: 14 are already there and 8 are in mobility. So there are 11 more to come in the course of 2017. Since its creation, support has been provided 857 times in reactive files. For the IRU data, 449 suspicious accounts were passed on to the Internet service provider, with the request for deletion. These accounts were associated with spreading online hatred and/or spreading propaganda. The most common social media accounts concern facebook, with177 and twitter, with 192 accounts. The remaining are websites, youtube or google+. The infringements in which DJSOC/I2 has provided reactive support are cybercrime 18, thefts 6, drugs 24, fraud 48, hormones 5, general info 38, public order 15, pedophilia 96, trafficking 12, terrorism 571, arms trafficking 23 and suicide 1. The search on social media for online hatred is done in a manual manner. At the time DJSOC/I2 was informed about the hate reports about that Limburg's victim, these comments had already been deleted. Any citizen can report comments and report them to a social media provider, where the online hatred is quickly removed by the social media provider. This is probably also the case here. Right now, we've got an investigation going on to automate this. Then a robot will be able to detect not only hate messages but also other things via a number of keywords and will no longer need to do so manually. So that's work in progress. That's the current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic569x.u121	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. This unit is an important unit in the federal police force, in order to define, also in the fight against terrorism, the limits of what can be done in our society, what is covered by freedom of expression and what is not covered by freedom of expression. On the one hand, I am pleased that the operators have acted and that they have deleted the messages, but on the other hand, I am sorry that those who have posted these hate messages go free in this way. You have responded saying that these people will be tracked and punished, but they will of course go free in this way. I hope that your services from the operators, from Facebook and Twitter, can still get the information to identify those people. I believe, after all, that this type of crime must be symbolised. I said in my introduction that this is not the first time that this has happened. I would also like to be very clear: the glorification of terrorism must also be addressed in this way, let me make that clear. I regret, however, that those who, in response to that incident, posted all kinds of hate messages and racist messages go free. I hope that you can still encourage your services to get information about these people through the providers.
