ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u1	Mrs Lalieux is not here today. In the absence of Mr Hellings, I shall speak directly to Mr Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u2	Minister, on December 1st, you announced that you had received the audit data you requested from DGTA on October 12th regarding Belgocontrol's compliance with the PRS between October 2nd and 10th. You told us that you were going to convene a meeting with DGTA and Belgocontrol to "start the second phase, that of the explanations, namely why Belgocontrol has deviated from the AIP rules". You explained that this audit was not requested as a result of the October 5 incident – which surprises me as your letter dated October 10 – which you acknowledged to be serious and which, following the BSA's classification of this incident as serious, was the subject of a report from the independent incident and accident investigation authority created by the AR of December 8, 1998. On 14 December last the meeting, announced on 1 December, was held with DGTA and Belgocontrol. At the end of the press release, you issued a statement saying that "at the exact time of the October 5 incident, the AIP was respected by Belgocontrol". On 13 December, Le Vif published an exchange of letters between the DGTA and Belgocontrol and you yourself showed that Belgocontrol did not intend to submit to the audit procedure defined by the DGTA in response to your request of 12 October: refusal to provide the requested data and refusal to allow the individual hearing of the persons responsible. These various elements are challenging, inasmuch as they reveal the reluctance of Belgocontrol, which is an operator contrary to what its name indicates, to submit to its own supervisory authority, which is DGTA, which is moreover in a case where it is at your express request that the control takes place. Minister, what exactly is the audit procedure you requested? Could the procedure established by the Controller (DGTA) be fully implemented, as it is of common sense, including with regard to the individual hearing of the persons responsible and the authenticity of the data provided? Do you have the final report from this procedure? When will Parliament be able to dispose of the report, its conclusions and the recommendations you have announced? As the period from 2 to 10 October is the subject of two separate control procedures - if I understand you correctly - could you tell me whether you have the report of the Independent Accident Investigation Authority (IAO) on the October 5 incident and whether this authority has been able to count on the full cooperation of Belgocontrol?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u3	I'm joining Mr. Van den Bergh to wish you all happiness in 2017. It covers a lot of things. In response to your questions, I would like to remind members that, prior to my appointment, none of my predecessors to Mobility and Transport had taken the initiative to conduct such an audit. I still wonder why such an objectivation approach had not been carried out in the past. From the outset, I wanted this audit to take place in three stages: data collection, analysis and the subsequent formulation of proposals and recommendations. Differences of opinion occurred at one point in the articulation of the first two stages. The fact that this exercise has never been carried out in the past is certainly one of the causes, but not only. I convened a meeting on 14 December to recall Belgocontrol's obligation to cooperate in carrying out the audit and to clarify to DGTA the objectives of the exercise. On this basis, the method of prosecution was accepted by DGTA and Belgocontrol. At this stage, therefore, the audit is well under way, but not closed. A factual analysis of the use of runways in relation to actual wind data was conducted, as I indicated. The current phase is to understand why and on what basis these choices of runways were made when we departed from the PRS while the actual wind is not sufficient to justify it. On the basis of the information that has come to me and at this stage of the audit, I have no reason to doubt the reliability of the work of DGTA. I regret, on the other hand, the leaks of internal documents to the FPS administration. With regard to the 5 October incident, I do not have the BSA report and do not know the status of the investigation conducted by this independent authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. You claim to have done this audit, but it is surprising that this solution had to be deployed when the DGTA is the supervisory authority of Belgocontrol and, as such, it should already have all the information needed to exercise its control in real time. This first anomaly is extremely serious and worrying if we remember that it is about aviation safety, that it is also about the quality of life of residents and that it is also about ensuring that the law is respected. This audit work should be done on a daily basis at the request of DGTA in Belgocontrol. I ask you, for the future, to correct Belgocontrol's behaviour vis-à-vis its supervisory authority. This seems to me to be very important in the case before us. You also confirm that the actual wind did not justify the use of the runways. This is again extremely worrying, since two aircraft almost telescopeed on 5 October.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u5	I have already replied in committee that with regard to the October 5 incident, it appears from the analysis of the data that the choice of runways was the right one, given the winds.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u6	You have said contradictory things in this regard. At the previous meeting of the commission, you stated that your audit did not concern this incident, since an independent investigation was under way. I'm a little surprised you cut the grass under the foot of this independent control authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u7	You don't hear what I'm saying! The independent authority is responsible for the analysis of the incident. I'm not analyzing the incident. I'm just talking about the compliance of track selection with the Preferred Runway System (PRS) on October 5. The analysis carried out on the data provided by Belgocontrol and the Ombudsman to the Directorate-General for Air Transport (DGTA) shows that the choice of runways complied with the PRS on that day, at that time. I'm not commenting on the incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u8	Of which act! I would have preferred to await the conclusions of the Belgian Surveillance Authority for Air Navigation Services (BSA). With regard to this independent authority, I find it extremely discreet, as it is not visible on the Internet. When will this report be available?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u9	This authority is not up to me. I can't have direct contact with her. It will report to various authorities, including DGTA, SPF, etc. I can't give him an injunction or interfere in his operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u10	This authority was nevertheless set up by royal decree, it has political control.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u11	Yes, but it's a functional tutelage, which is not about the substance. The people are housed in the FPS, but I interviewed the FPS Chair who told me that the authority will file a report within the required time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u12	Of which also act! It is still important to know their conclusions. I believe that with regard to aviation safety, the quality of life of residents and the misuse of runways or not, it is essential that clarity be given to what happened during this week, when the law was not respected. In general, we must finally have transparency on the use of runways, we must finally have an independent air regulatory authority and we must finally make Belgocontrol understand that it is an operator and that, like any operator, it deserves control on the part of your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u13	I understand the nuances are important. I have therefore allowed the dialogue to continue, but we must keep an eye on our time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u14	Mr Minister, I listened carefully to the previous question because there are some links with my question. My question is actually about the Ombudsman for the airport, Mr Tuwaide, who is supposed to be impartial, just like the control bodies for the airport to which Mr Dallemagne referred. On 10 December last year the Ombudsman gave an interview to La Libre Belgique. In it he expressed his vision of the flight routes of the national airport. In that interview, he clearly pointed to a particular political choice. His statements were clearly coloured and anything but neutral, which is required in his function. Nor does his past argue in his favor at all. For example, he was chairman of Union Belge Contre les Nuisances des Avions, an action committee that defended one region around the national airport. He also worked in Cabinets, but that's not the end of it either. On 14 November, he was a guest speaker on an info evening of "Piste 01," ça suffit. This is an action committee of neighborhood residents from one region around the national airport. I got the report on that night. I would like to read a piece from that because this is linked back to the previous question. Minister, you said just now that on 5 October the use of jobs went according to wind standards, while the Ombudsman said: "On 5 October last, Runway 01 was used all day without any justification of wind." So he's saying something completely different from what you're saying. That's one of many examples around this man. This raises serious questions about its functioning, its independence and its neutrality as an ombudsman for the airport. So, Minister, I have a few questions for you. Firstly, do you consider his statements in the press, in La Libre Belgique, to be compatible with the independence expected of him as an Ombudsman? Secondly, do you consider it appropriate to reconcile his guest speaker role on the evening of an action committee with Article 4 (2) of the Royal Decree of 15 March 2002 establishing an ombud service for Brussels Airport National, taking into account the statements he made there on that 5 October, wind conditions and runway use? Thirdly, what action are you going to take on this case? Finally, how and by whom will Mr Tuwaide be evaluated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u15	My dear colleague, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 15 March 2002 establishing an ombudsmen's service, the Ombudsman acts independently. Such a function is, of course, an impartiality obligation. That's what the person concerned was reminded of by my cabinet. As far as the information evening you are talking about is concerned, I have heard that the organization was based on the municipality and not on an association of local residents. On this basis and on the basis of the information obtained, I do not think that any particular action should be taken on this incident, but I will continue to monitor the aspects you mentioned. The Royal Decree of 15 March 2002 establishing an ombudsmen's service ensures total independence of the ombudsmen's service, giving the service and its members complete freedom to perform their duties, subject to compliance with the regulatory framework of their missions and with the principles I have just mentioned. In this respect, the decision does not provide for any evaluation, which seems to be the applicable rule for the other functions of the federal Ombudsman and guarantees their independence and autonomy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that the organization of the information evening was in the hands of the Municipality of Waterloo. Op internet staat het volgende te lezen: "Tuesday night, Waterloo's communal hall was crowded for the information meeting initiated by the ASBL 'Piste 01 that's enough." Minister, it is clear that it is not an organisation of a local authority but an action committee. According to the N-VA, that man in his position has clearly violated the KB. I'm sure we'll keep following up on that case. My party is certainly not served by this man making such statements. That makes the already difficult dossier of the air routes difficult. It is important that we find an agreement on a fair distribution in accordance with the coalition agreement. The Federal Ombudsman must be able to guarantee complete neutrality. That is clearly not the case here. In addition, this man makes other infringements, including language legislation. On the website of the ombudsdienst, many reports are only available in French and the Facebook page is only French. The Party will continue to ask questions about this and will continue to ask for the appropriate actions of the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u17	Mr President, Minister, this question is in line with the previous one. The Runway Allocation Advisory System (RAAS) is currently being tested by Belgocontrol. This system determines optimal job use on the basis of objective criteria, such as weather conditions. Safety is the main reason for this. That is an obvious reason, which no one here will question. It thus leads to a depoliticisation of job use at the national airport. The system also allows for better communication and argumenting with residents about why one uses a particular job on a given day. In short, it may and hopefully provides a solution to the waspen nest in relation to the routes. It is also claimed that the system already provided a solution to a similar conflict around Basel-Mulhouse-Freiburg airport. Belgocontrol himself is already enthusiastic and wants the approval to use the system and is waiting for your validation, Minister, to officially put the system into operation. What is your vision regarding the RAAS? What benefits does the system offer? What are the downsides? When will you or will you not validate the system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 Belgocontrol was asked to purchase assistance software to make the decisions on the choice of runway at Brussels National Airport. I personally insisted that the purchase should take place as a matter of priority. In addition to helping traffic controllers choose jobs, this will provide greater transparency and better information for stakeholders on the deviations from the preferred job use schedule and on job use prospects. With such a system, the automatic choice of runway is based on the parameters of the software, even though the controller can always act to change the proposed runway. However, any amendment must be justified. The new system was implemented in the control tower at the end of September 2016 and passed the required technical test in December. At present, the phase of the operational test is in progress. In the context of that phase, validation of the parameters to be used by the configuration of the system should be carried out. It is indeed essential to ensure that the right parameters are chosen. Only under these conditions will the system be able to properly assist the controllers and objectify the decisions taken in this technical and operationally complex area and in this politically sensitive matter and contribute to clarity and serenity in the file. I have therefore instructed the Directorate-General for Aviation to proceed with the validation of the operational RAAS concept presented to me by Belgocontrol in order to ensure that the parameters that guide the logic of the track choice in the system are in line with the instructions in that area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u19	Minister, I welcome your appreciation of the system and its benefits. We agree with this for 100 %. It is indeed a way to objectify the file. That is also the way to approach the issue: since it is a very technical matter, the parameters must also be technical and not political in nature. I am therefore pleased that you are prepared to validate the system. You say it was implemented at the end of September and is in a test phase. It could then have been applied on 5 October, and it could solve the whole discussion that we had at the beginning of our sitting, the mystery about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u20	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, we have learned that you wish to impose the Alcolock on repeat alcoholic-impregnation motorists or those who would have a blood alcohol level of at least 1.2 g. Can you give us more information about this section of the law? When will it be put in place? As you know, some judges do not want to impose the alcolock because of its high cost. It costs 3,000 euros. What is your opinion on the matter? I thank you in advance for these answers, and to you, Mr President, and to the members of the committee, I wish you all the best at this beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u21	Thank you for your good wishes, Mr Devin. I have no doubt that the year will be rich. I wish everyone happy, quite simply. We'll see about the rest. Dear colleague, the provision to which you refer is currently under discussion at the government level. Among other measures, it will resume the possibility for the judge to impose an anti-start ethylotest from a blood alcohol level of 0.8 g, as is already the case. On the other hand, it makes this penalty compulsory for a period of one to three years or on a definitive basis in several cases, in particular when recidivating with a very high level of blood alcohol. Ethylotest anti-start will be mandatory in the sense that the judge will be required to impose this penalty. It is true that the anti-start ethylotest has a certain cost since the leasing device costs almost €2,500 per year and the framework programme €1,210. However, the judge may decide to reduce or even cancel the amount of the fine for the installation costs. I would point out that the minimum amount of the fine in case of drunkenness at this rate is 1,600 to 3,200 euros in case of recidivism for drunkenness or significant alcohol intoxication. It should be borne in mind that this sanction offers, in some cases, an alternative to a simple and long-term withdrawal with the consequences it entails for professional and social life when the occupation depends entirely on the driving of a vehicle. The offender will always be able to give up the ethylometer and, at the same time, will give up driving during the same penalty period for the withdrawal of a driver's licence. In fact, this amounts to a pure and simple withdrawal of a duration equivalent to the penalty of the anti-start ethylometer. In concrete terms, the cost may seem significant, but it is in the same order as it would have in the event that the offender's choice was to withdraw a cumulative licence to pay a relatively large fine at these rates of alcohol impregnation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u22	Minister, thank you. You're talking about a high level of impregnation. We're not going to discuss it here, but I imagine that its definition is currently being discussed within the government. I can hear you. I have one more question. So what is the difference between imposing 0.8 g and making mandatory at a very high rate? You say that at 0,8 g, you impose!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u23	Starting at 0.8 g. Do you know what 0.8 g is? It's between 10 and 15 glasses. From this rate, the judge will have to impose this measure or the long-term withdrawal of the permit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u24	As early as 0.8 g, this measure will be made mandatory, and it is clearly mandatory when the rate exceeds it. Thank you, Minister. I imagine you'll come back with the definitive definitions in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u25	Mr Minister, I have been interested in the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lutgen, who is a very wise politician. It proposes to offer free public transport to youth movements. The aim of this resolution is to amend the SNCB management contract, to introduce free rail transport throughout the year for youth movements, and to make the booking rules more flexible. In Belgium, more than 341,000 young people are part of a youth movement. Minister, what is your position on this resolution? Do you intend to facilitate train bookings for these youth movements? You must know them well because you are from a region where they regularly go to summer camps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u26	Indeed, Mr Devin, I know them well since Rochefort is the second municipality in Belgium for the summer camps of youth movements. The first place varies between Durbuy and Bouillon and we are constantly second. In addition, you talk to someone who has played all the roles in youth movements, from the little cub to the troop leader, between the ages of 6 and 22. In our region, youth movements travel with the communal bus because unfortunately there is no train in the villages to drive the young people where they want to go. So it's the commune that's taking care of it. This being the case, groups can be booked in a few minutes online or by phone. For the reservation of group travel, SNCB gives travellers the guarantee of being able to travel together and to have the number of seats reserved. These are two important safety elements for groups with children. From a purely operational point of view, the group reservation allows SNCB to be informed that a large group is travelling on the train in question, and to take this into account in the event of disturbance. The price paid by travellers is very competitive: 70% discount. For example, the train journey between Namur and Rochefort, with a group reservation for at least 15 people, amounts to €3.40 per person, less than the price of a Go Pass. Other very attractive pricing options also exist, such as the ability for four children under the age of 12 to use the train free of charge when accompanied by an adult who pays for a ticket that can be a Go Pass. When the scramble is there, there is a way to travel very cheaply. As far as youth movements are concerned, free rail transport would no longer force them to make a reservation, which could potentially lead to safety problems, in particular, and I have experienced it in my region. Moreover, given the fact that members of a youth movement do not have a legitimation title, such a measure would result in discrimination against any other group of young people wishing to use the train as a means of transport to travel as a group, to travel together, for example, to the cinema, to an amusement park or to a major musical event.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u27	Thank you for your answers, Minister, and I will report to the President of the CDH.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u28	Minister, we're all from somewhere. You just told us about Rochefort as a landmark. Mr. Van Hees and I talk to you regularly about our line. We must do this, because we do not see any improvements. During each SNCB communication, it is very difficult to rejoice for more than a day, because the next day an incident occurs. I have great hope in future decisions. Hope gives life. In any case, we are waiting, because there is an exasperation. There is an exasperation of bingo commuters, commuters from the Central Region, following cancellations and delays of trains on line 108 Binche-Turnhout. On the day of resumption, Monday, it was a new disaster, with cancelled trains and late trains. As you know, the various reports of the SNCB highlight this, two lines are a problem. I will not say that they are catastrophic, because a disaster is still something else. There's Mons-Bruxelles and I'm talking about Binche-Turnhout's. Minister, how many delays have there been on this line since January 2016? How many train cancellations this year on this line? What do you intend to do in the short and medium term to improve punctuality on this line?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u29	Mr Devin, as far as the punctuality of line 108 is concerned, I shall transmit in the annex a table showing the punctuality measured from 1 January to 30 November 2016. Punctuality varied between 96% and 81%. While it is true that in some periods 20% of trains do not arrive on time, it must be recognized that at other times only 4% of trains do not arrive on time. I'll give you the measured punctuality data. It may not be the reality experienced by people who arrive late, but it is the reality experienced by the silent majority that seems to arrive on time according to the numbers I receive. Infrabel tells me that over the same period, of the 14,241 trains partially deleted, there were 410 on line 108, i.e. 2.9%. Of the 22,666 trains completely deleted, 205 were on line 108, i.e. 0.9% of the trains. SNCB can only recall the ongoing actions to improve punctuality at network level. Firstly, priority is given to actions to reduce the number of equipment failures: efficient repair of equipment in maintenance workshops through better diagnostic tools, increase of staff at the train operator helpdesk, increase of fleet engineers by type of equipment and commissioning of new workshops to increase technical capacity. Secondly, permanent attention is also given to the departure at the precise time of the first trains of the day. Third, SNCB and Infrabel regularly coordinate with a view to planning important infrastructure works as effectively as possible to reduce their impact on timeliness. Many actions are also underway at Infrabel to reduce the number of infrastructure-related incidents, such as grade crossings, signals, track circuits, etc. In addition, action plans are being developed in collaboration with Infrabel to reduce incidents for causes external to the SNCB group, dependent on third parties, such as collisions of persons, the presence of persons in and along the tracks and theft of cables, which together account for between 30 and 50% of train delays per month. I'll take a simple example. Some go back to Mons by train. Yesterday, the train stopped for more than an hour and a half at Hal's station because a smart kid pulled the emergency signal. It's a phenomenon we're increasingly familiar with. Not a week goes by without someone pulling the emergency signal. This is a new phenomenon, which is accelerating. So, in relation to this, we are really faced with a difficulty internally to know how to stop these phenomena of trespassing, people along the tracks. There is now a very clear procedure. When you see people along the tracks, you stop, you shut down the entire network as long as the problem is not solved and the police have not gone there. These are phenomena for which prevention and constant information are needed. But I do not deny that internal to the company, it is important to reduce incidents, accidents and flooring in this area. The instruction given at the end of November following the deterioration which took place in November was in this direction, i.e. to find solutions in particular for the most exposed lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u30	Mr President, it has been months since the emergency signal was drawn from all sides. A rate of 80% means that one in five trains is late! One cannot agree that it is the busiest trains, because it is at the time of going to work, to school that the most problems arise. It is precisely at that time that we must be as punctual as possible. I'd be curious to have a comparison with the other lines. I am sure that this line is one of the most difficult lines. Are some lines much more in trouble than this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u31	(...) 60%!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u32	60% of the lines are difficult! I will not rejoice at the misfortune of others. One in five trains isn't on time, there are 615 trains deleted over the year. As you said, 410 trains partially deleted and 205 completely deleted. The addition of these two parameters gives me 615, minister! That's 615 trains on this one line, almost two a day. I took it one day from Brussels, it was deleted. It's amazing! You imagine that we will be attentive to this line and your proposals. [[I have heard your comments about the significant improvements you want to make.]] They are of a general nature and we will see how they will contribute to improving punctuality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u33	Minister, at the end of September 2016, the Global Competitiveness Report 2016-2017 of the World Economic Forum focused on Belgium's performance in rail infrastructure, considerably weaker than its neighbours and subject to a negative trend. In Western Europe, only the United Kingdom, Italy and Portugal are behind Belgium in this ranking. At the same time, we learn that Infrabel, the Belgian railway infrastructure manager, is considering a significant reduction in the number of its tracks and switches. It wants to save on the maintenance costs of our rail network, particularly in response to the government's budgetary injunctions. This will further damage the punctuality of trains in our country, which is already problematic. At present, in several parts of the network, the infrastructure is insufficient to develop a satisfactory train offer. You highlighted it yourself, Minister, with the city you came from. Infrabel's dismantling programmes are therefore not going to fix the situation. Minister, can you confirm that Infrabel is planning to reduce the number of its lanes and switches? If that is true, does this reduction not run counter to the 2017 Transport Plan, which aims on the contrary to expand the supply of trains throughout the network?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u34	Mr Devin, Infrabel's current draft Corporate Plan 2016-2020 does not provide for any removal of lines on our rail network. This company informs me that the reduction in the number of referrals corresponds to a rationalization measure applied since 2012. The Commission adds that it will not penalise the implementation of the 2017 Transport Plan. On the other hand, it makes it possible to improve their structural robustness by reducing the number of installations which may occasionally present a risk of failure and therefore of unavailability. At this stage, no final decision has yet been made on this draft plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u35	Mr President, I take note of the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u36	Minister, last May, you said that just 13% of first-class seats were occupied on trains. This is a paradoxical situation because for years, commuters have denounced the general lack of seating on trains during peak hours. Moreover, you were warned of this problem again last November by students, users of line 162 (Arlon-Namur), who found themselves piled up in their train on Sunday night. Minister, I have two questions. What is the proportion of 1st class and 2nd class seats, on average, on trains? What is your reflection on optimising the occupancy of first-class seats?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u37	Mr Devin, I give you a table showing the average number of places offered per class and the proportion of first-class places occupied in the network. The number of seats in first class should not be confused with the number of first class seats in a train. There are 13% first-class seats on each train. On the day, there are an average of 62 first-class places compared to 392 second-class places, or 14% for some trains. In the morning peak hours, there are 68 first-class places for 439 second-class places, representing 13%. In the evening peak hours, between 3.30 p.m. and 6.00 p.m., there are an average of 66 first-class places, compared to 432 second-class places, or 13%. So, concretely, there are 13% first-class seats and 87% second-class seats. SNCB informs me that optimizing the filling rate is a difficult problem to solve, especially in off-peak hours. SNCB has two main levers. The first is to reduce the composition of trains by taking into account the rotation of equipment. The second is to adapt the tariff policy or to develop product lines to attract certain categories of travellers who only agree to travel to these types of seats. With regard to the problem of certain particular trains, such as the student train on line 162 that you mentioned, the SNCB regulations allow the train attendant to declassify 1st class cars to compensate for a one-time overoccupation of the 2nd class. The conditions for this decommissioning were recalled in response to Parliamentary question No. 1114. Finally, on line 162, on Sunday evening, for information, a P-train of students had been added at 6 p.m. from Arlon and interceded between two ICs. The on-the-spot findings are that it is under-used and that the filling is for the four central cars of the 17:31 train leaving Arlon, while the two leading cars and the two tail cars are filled at 50%. It is therefore necessary to ensure a better distribution of passengers on the whole train and on the part of SNCB, to communicate well on the existence of the student P train set up a few years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u38	I thank the minister for his response as a whole, but there is one aspect, either that I misunderstood or that you did not speak about, it is in relation to rush hours. I heard you were talking about off-peak hours. You've spoken twice about rush hours. I understand the 13 percent. My question was about rush hours. Are they completely occupied or not? Have you alluded to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u39	Over the day, there are 14 per cent of seats in the first class overall, but in peak hours in the morning and evening, they represent only 13 per cent. In the daytime, that's 14%.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u41	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my best wishes for 2017. A few years ago, I even think that we were part of the majority then, although this subject has nothing to do with majority and opposition, I asked a question about the use of the senior ticket in SNCB. After all, I found that during certain periods, namely summer weekends, no senior ticket could be used, which I do not think could be used. Indeed, it is difficult to communicate to a particular population group that a favourable rate, for example to improve the occupancy rate of a number of trains, does not apply to certain peak moments while other discount cards are valid during that period. SNCB would then look at this further and, if necessary, work on it. In the meantime, I haven't heard anything about it. Specifically, between 11 July and 15 August no senior pass can be used during the weekends. What are the arguments for that? Are these still legitimate? Are any complaints known to SNCB? If yes, how many in 2015 and in 2016? Does SNCB intend to remove that anomaly? SNCB announced a number of years ago, and recently when a number of plans were presented, that it would like to simplify the tariff system. What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u42	Mr President, the senior citizens' bill has an extremely competitive rate and is virtually free of charge. This offers the seniors the opportunity to travel during off-peak hours. This very competitive price can be offered by travelling at times when trains are less busy. It is true that the seniors' bill is the only tariff formula that depends on a use calendar. The senior rate is an extremely advantageous rate that was created specifically to fill free spaces at times when there is a lot of free capacity on the train. Seniors may opt at any time to use another less advantageous tariff formula if they wish to move at times when the trains have high occupancy. The summer restrictions or abolition during the weekends would create additional pressure on trains that are already overcrowded in full tourist season during those weekends, despite the massive increase in the supply traditionally made by SNCB during that period. Other discount rates such as for large families or increased allowances always give 50% off the standard mileage price. The average price of a back and forth ticket at 50 % discount and the price of two routes of a Go-Pass generate significantly more revenue compared to the price of the senior ticket. If the summer restriction is lifted, these travellers will buy a cheaper senior ticket, which would have a significant negative impact on SNCB's income. No figures are available on the number of complaints in this respect. SNCB considers this not as an anomaly but as an example of segmented pricing, a concept that is applied universally to activate different target groups commercially efficiently and to generate revenue in line with the production costs of a product or service. For a substantive adjustment of its tariff structure, SNCB is dependent on a new more flexible framework formalised in the new management contract. This is very difficult within the framework of the existing management contract. In addition, SNCB is preparing to significantly simplify the presentation of tariffs and to build in clear reading keys in 2017 following the launch of a completely renewed website. At the time of the introduction of the senior notes, all the partners concerned agreed that the senior notes could only be introduced if the costs for SNCB remained marginal. In other words, to fill free places during off-peak hours. Moreover, there should be no cannibalisation of normal tariffs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u43	Minister, I can partially understand the arguments about occupation and tariff structure. I said this last time. My only proposal is to consider the extent to which an hour lock limit may be introduced during certain weekends. I do not know whether there is any reduction in capacity utilisation on trains to the Coast during those summer weekends. This needs to be looked at further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u44	On the whole, Minister, statistics show that for the first nine months of 2016 there is a decrease of 12% in the number of road deaths. Hopefully, we will soon know whether this decline will continue over the next three months. However, the increase in the number of bicycle accidents is remarkable, even in Brussels by 18%. Logical explanations are more movements with a more conscious choice for the bike. This creates a new risk profile. To what extent are the policy makers, you at federal level and others at regional and municipal level, able to deal with this trend beforehand? That is the responsibility of every road manager. Does the intermodality platform, for example, pay specific attention to the weak road users? Is there any proactive consideration of how to avoid the increase in the number of accidents involving cyclists and other vulnerable road users?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u45	There are several consultative bodies between the federal government and the regions according to the subject matter. A number of meetings have indeed already taken place at ministerial level. However, I believe that the most appropriate forum for discussing the specific issue of the weak road users is the Federal Road Safety Commission. At my request, that body will be modernised in 2017, taking into account the sixth state reform. This does not prevent us from focusing on the weak road users. Moreover, it is important that road managers and regional authorities also make efforts to adapt infrastructure and to raise awareness of road safety. My policy paper announces measures aimed at increasing the road safety of all road users in general, including those of the weak road users. This includes, in particular, the increase in controls on driving under the influence, the more severe punishment of the hit-and-run and the introduction of the compulsory alcohol lock for high alcohol levels and repeaters. These measures will all contribute to greater safety for the weak road users. Finally, I would like to remind you that at the end of 2016 I made important changes to the road code to include the new models of electric bicycles. The improved legal framework also clarifies the traffic rules for these vehicles and thus contributes to increased safety for the weak road users.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u46	Minister, I am aware that this is a matter for different bodies, which I have clearly mentioned in my introduction. For me, it is very important that the issue should remain high on the political agenda, whoever the agenda is in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u47	Mr President, the resolution on the provision of data to SNCB is out of your hands. The subject has been discussed several times in this committee. Spitsguide is an app from Train-Tram-Bus and iMinds indicates how busy it is on a particular line. They collect that data through the iRail app. In the case of SNCB, these data are apparently not released. This makes it difficult to make this app work properly and properly. We need to map the flows of travellers and then make them available to the traveller in a simple way. Traveler settings based on big data rather than physical counts provide a smaller error margin. In this way one can respond more accurately to the real flows of travellers. What is the state of play in this application? How many requests to open data does SNCB receive? How many are they refusing? What are the arguments for refusing? Is SNCB open to better cooperation and exchange of information with the mobility field such as Train-Tram-Bus? In this way, data are used for better communication with the traveller and thus for a better service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u48	SNCB informs me that developments to exchange real-time data have been completed. Very soon they will start testing this solution. SNCB expects to be able to offer this solution in the first quarter of 2017. Automation could ensure greater accuracy in the passenger count so that manual results are less questioned. According to SNCB, the use of big data at this stage is not yet far enough to replace the manual censuses. The tests carried out together with the telecom operators were not conclusive. Finally, SNCB fully cooperated with iRail's Spitsgids initiative and answered all questions. Moreover, the cooperation with SNCB is highlighted on the website https://irail.be/app. So far 275 applications have been made for the opening of data. Of these, 24 applicants have also effectively signed the licensing agreement. No applications were refused. SNCB adds that it wishes to encourage start-ups to use the open data for innovation, particularly in new markets, which it will not enter itself, by participating, first, in numerous open data conferences, with a systematic call for start-ups; secondly, the intention to participate in the hackathon type initiatives; and finally, the willingness to promote the creation of start-ups through the website and the communication platform from a to better performance. There are concrete contacts with e.g. Google and iRail to participate in our testing phase and provide us with their feedback. They want to be the first to be able to use our new data flow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll take it from here. We will wait for the first quarter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u50	Mr President, Minister, when I drew up this question, the subject was not very topical. Today, however, I read in the press a report on the purchase of advertising activities by SNCB. Trains, like other public transport modes, reach many citizens and this offers potential in terms of advertising revenue. SNCB already had a partnership for advertising panels in the stations, which, according to today's reports, it will buy itself entirely. Regional transport companies shall make available the exterior of their vehicles for advertising purposes. This possibility offers advantages for both parties. The transport companies generate revenue from it. The possibilities are huge. SNCB also recently started using its trains for publicity, namely for the search for suitable staff. I have often seen trains running with the message that SNCB is looking for train drivers or train drivers. In our view, there is still potential, like regional transport companies, to use the vehicle fleet for advertising purposes in the broad sense and thus to obtain commercial revenues. That is why I have a number of questions. From what sources does SNCB and its subsidiaries generate advertising revenue? Has any consideration been given to making trains available for the advertising purposes of third parties? If so, what were the conclusions? How do you feel about the idea of earning revenue by advertising on the outside of trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u51	Mr President, Mr Publifer is currently the exclusive concessionary for advertising on the railway domain. This operation includes not only advertising signs in the stations, but also those outside. In addition, there are other advertising sources such as samplings, flyering, promotional stands and video walls in the stations, and, to a lesser extent, advertising on parking tickets or on tickets. SNCB receives from Publifer a concession fee consisting of a percentage of advertising revenue. Publifer is contractually entitled to use the trains for advertising purposes. In concrete terms, in the past, only once the outside of a train was used for an advertising campaign. Until today, trains are less attractive to advertisers than buses and trams. Three elements play a role in this. First of all, the targeting of or the affiliate on trains are quite expensive and time-consuming issues so that a one-day or one-way campaign is not feasible. This also affects the availability of the equipment, which is contrary to all the efforts made to increase that availability. A second element is that the visibility on the outside of a train outside the stations is much more limited than the visibility of advertising on trams and buses, due to the track and speed of the train. Finally, trains are composed of different carriages and cannot always be guaranteed that the composition of a train on a specific line remains identical for a certain period of time. In that case, the polling of the outside of the train or the post office on the train is not of interest to an advertiser since he has no certainty about the uniformity of his advertising or the achievement of his target audience.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u52	It is a coincidence that this afternoon I saw a train in Antwerp Central for the first time, a Desirostel, which was polled for Train World, with an advertisement for Tintin's exhibition in Train World.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u53	Mr Minister, I can follow your reasoning that the timing of a train by third parties is different from that of a bus because the composition of the rolling stock can change by route or by journey. So it's not that obvious. However, there is still a large part of advertising in the stations. We read today that SNCB Clear Channel buys out of Publifer, making it the sole shareholder. In fact, the percentage of revenue from the concession fees is thus a cardigan pocket operation. Perhaps it is interesting to have a look at this concession, for example that Clear Channel, JCDecaux and others may offer to exploit the advertising panels x number of years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u54	Minister, the year was not so well spent on both the SNCB and Infrabel staff due to the fatal train accident. We were able to see that on TV. Three people were hit by a car. Two people died and a third person was seriously injured and was taken to the hospital in critical condition. Could you explain this accident ten days after the accident? Was that place known as a risk to track? Have measures been taken in the past to make access to the tracks in that place more difficult? How many people made life run wild in 2015 and 2016 respectively? I ask that question because I found that there was a sharp decline in the Netherlands. That is why I think it is interesting to know the trend here as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u55	On Monday 2 January 2017, at 14h 07, three people who were irregularly walking along the railways in the tunnel of Leernes, located between Hourpes and Landelies, were caught by the passenger train number E3773 Charleroi-Zuid-Erquelinnes, motor vehicle 3960 at kilometer pole 106,0 on the line 130A. As a result of that accident, the train driver sounded the alarm to interrupt traffic on both tracks of the line 130A and carried out an emergency braking without causing anyone to get hurt on the train. He brought the train set to a standstill at mileage 106.630. Emergency services were immediately informed and were on the scene around 2:37 p.m. To limit the impact of this accident on commuters, a bus service between Charleroi-Zuid and Lobbes and a train service between Lobbes and Erquelinnes was installed around 14:30. On the other hand, the evacuation of the 20 passengers on the E4763 train involved in the accident was impossible because of the inaccessibility of the site of the accident. Afterwards, the crash of three people was confirmed. Two people had died and a third was seriously injured. Around 15:17, the seriously injured person was evicted by the emergency services. Around 16:25, the police allowed the E4763 train to be evacuated with the passengers to Lobbes. Around 17:37, the funeral home arrived at the scene. Around 16:49 the train E4763 left for Lobbes, where he arrived around 16:57. The passengers were picked up by SNCB's staff and led to train E4765 Lobbes-Erquelinnes. Around 17:21 the technical services were finished cleaning the tracks. Around 17:33 was granted permission for the resumption of traffic without any restriction. This accident also caused the abolition of three SNCB trains, the partial abolition of six SNCB trains and a cumulative delay of 326 minutes for nine SNCB trains and a delay of 31 minutes for a CR freight train. In his action plan, Infrabel identified 43 hotspots, 27 of them in stations and 16 on tracks. The priority is the security of those zones. The area where the accident occurred is not identified as a risk site. The railway domain is a private domain with prohibited access for those not authorised to do so. The railway domain must clearly not be entered by third parties. However, this has been done and at the specific site of the accident access was also blocked with concrete curbstones of the New Jersey type. The infrastructure manager is working on numerous material interventions and on a high level of awareness of dangerous behaviour, which is, however, still too often observed. In 2015, as a result of tracks, two deaths and two serious injuries were recorded. In 2016, it was two deaths and one serious injury. However, the figures for 2016 are provisional data and still need to be analysed by Infrabel and the railway police. I would like to reiterate that Infrabel does not spare her efforts, including through communication campaigns and awareness campaigns, so that such tragic accidents would not happen again. Security remains the priority number one. For further information on the measures taken by Infrabel in this area, please refer to the reply to your oral question No. 14601 which you were sent by e-mail in October 2016 and will soon be published in response to written question No. 1825.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply and for the precise presentation of the facts, however sad they may be. I regularly ask questions about the efforts made by both companies and I think they should be recognised. Recently, in my neighboring town of Berlare there was another action by Infrabel. I notice that the sensitization actions of Infrabel are becoming more and more drastic to deter people enough. The companies are therefore making a great deal of effort, but we are still seeing such accidents happening. You say the zone wasn't known as a risk zone. I specifically tabled this question because one of the elements that emerged in the media was that some said that this was considered a shortening of a hiking trail. I take note of the other answers you have given.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u57	Minister, on the morning of 2 January, around 5:00 a train left in Vorst. That seems logical in itself, but in this case it makes less sense, because the train left without a driver or a companion on board. The technology already offers many possibilities today, but that was an unforeseen event. I find it odd that a train can just leave. Another element is that the train was stopped after 500 meters at an angle of 45 degrees. I do not think that is the standard method, but your answer will clarify that. Mr. Secretary, have you had an analysis of how it is possible that that train could leave? Normally, the GDPR departure procedure is applied. Where were the driver and the escort of that train? What speed did that train reach? Has there been a risk to the staff? How was that train stopped? Is it true that that train drove 500 metres? Are there precedents in Belgium or in other countries with self-driving Desiros? Was there any presence in the seat of Frost ETCS? What is the damage to the trains and to the infrastructure? Who's gonna pay for that? If it is a technical defect, can the costs be recovered from the manufacturer or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u58	Mr Minister, when we speak of the "one man car", we have here the example of a train where there is no one on board and which derails in Forest after having travelled 500 meters. Obviously, the brake system would not have worked and it was a so-called "derailment switch" that would have taken action. So there was no driver, no attendant and – fortunately – no passengers either. What is interesting is to see that the CGSP has responded by raising some questions, which I would like to refer to you. According to CGSP Cheminots, there was a problem with the brakes. The previous week, there had already been three similar incidents at the same training station in Forest. The union called for a social dialogue to increase safety at this station. According to CGSP Cheminots, the cause would be savings. So there would be an impact on security. Philippe Dubois, Brussels regional secretary of the CGSP Cheminots, in Le Soir on January 3, says that this drift – that is the technical term used to speak of the driverless rolling train – is challenging. That's the least we can say. He added: "This is symptomatic of increasing pressure on staff, while SNCB suffers from catastrophic underfunding." Mr Dubois asked for a quick light on the causes of the Monday incident and for a social dialogue to be set up to build real safety at training stations. At SNCB, savings are denied at the expense of safety. My questions are as follows. Are the causes of the incident already known? The CGSP Chemots requested a risk analysis as soon as possible, given the successive incidents. Is SNCB moving in this direction? Is this a specific problem with Desiro trains? What are the risks that such an incident will continue to occur in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u59	According to SNCB, it was empty train equipment that was parked in the formation station of Vorst. The equipment moved, because the parking brake was not activated and the set was on a slight slope. There was no driver, train attendant or other staff present in the train set. In principle, they only had to be on site one hour later to prepare the rolling stock and bring it to the platform. A train that moves in an unforeseen way always poses a risk. There were very few personnel present in that area. Staff working in training stations are given specific guidelines when moving on foot. The safety system worked and ensured that the train did not end up on the main track. In such cases, the train is automatically distracted to a derailment strip. The train has been derailed and has come to a standstill due to the presence of ballast, large stones beside the tracks. The equipment finally drove three hundred meters at low speed. A similar incident has happened and is not linked to the Desiro material. The Vorst-Zuid zone is not equipped with ERTMS. Given the low speed at the time of derailment, the damage to the equipment as well as to the infrastructure is limited. It is too early to give a concrete estimate. Together with Infrabel, SNCB analyses similar incidents in 2016. It has also taken a number of measures to prevent repetition. Mr Van Hees, you know that safety is and remains a priority. It is everywhere, including in training stations, and not just for equipment, for staff as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u60	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and I hope that the measures taken will prevent a repetition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u61	Minister, I take note of your explanation of the incident. You remind us that security is a concern for all. But it is not enough to proclaim it, it is also necessary to take measures to ensure that this is the case. You haven't really responded to the allegations of this unionist who points to the growing pressure on staff. It is clear that the desire to increase the productivity of staff, i.e. to have more transport with fewer staff, generates increased pressure on staff, with an impact on safety. It is a reality that can hardly be denied. You don't, because you don't address the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanheste's 15636 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u63	My question is about staff. SNCB has announced that it will recruit 1,239 full-time equivalents in 2017, comprising 472 drivers, 312 train attendants, 175 technical agents, and even more other categories. That's a first estimate. However, the new transport plan will require 400 full-time equivalents of drivers. This new plan will take effect in December 2017, but you know that the main training for a driver lasts twelve months. There is still specific training for different materials, lines and systems, such as CDS, which lasts almost six months. At the moment, according to my information, there are not enough training staff to absorb the capacity increase that will be required by the new plan. I ask you to confirm this, but apparently, even if SNCB recruits all the additional full-time equivalents tomorrow, the new drivers will be ready six months late from the necessities. In addition, many staff are expected to retire early due to the measures of this government and many others want to resign from their post with, it is true, a twelve-month notice period, but there is a procedure in the Council of State that could undermine this deadline. If the Council of State follows this approach, the exodus of staff could increase. The ambition to increase trains is certainly very positive, Mr Minister, but this question of staff does arise. In your opinion, has SNCB's management sufficiently anticipated its personnel policy, given the new challenges? Secondly, is the ambition to recruit 472 full-time equivalents among drivers sufficient to absorb both the new transport plan and staff turnover, i.e. departures? How many drivers are in training today? How many of these will be operational when the new transportation plan comes into effect? Finally, if there is a shortage of staff at that time, how will the problem be solved? Will there be a further increase in the number of days to be recovered by staff or is there any other alternative?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u64	According to SNCB, there is currently no shortage of train drivers. The 2017 recruitments take into account the long training period and therefore cover operational needs until the first quarter of 2019. Operational needs take into account not only the new transport plan, but also the staff outflow due to retirement, medical disability and dismissal. In any case, SNCB will intensify and expand its recruitment campaign through various TV channels, cinemas, social forums and job fairs. It also looks at working more closely with the VDAB. In addition, the effectiveness of the current recruitment process will be examined. Since a new transport plan requires less than 100 additional FTEs, staff turnover is indeed taken into account. Today there are 161 train drivers in training and that training will end no later than November 2017. It is also important that productivity-enhancing measures, i.e. five more days' work, take up the expansion of the transport plan. The recruitments are monitored closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u65	Minister, I take note of your reassuring response that there is no concern. It's not the echoes I had. You are telling me that 161 drivers are in training and will be ready at the end of November 2017, which seems very little in relation to the needs. If you tell us that's enough, what else can you do other than believe in word? The numbers seem a little strange to me in relation to your reassuring answer. Your response to productivity gains, on the other hand, does not reassure me at all. Questions may arise as to the consequences, in particular the reduction in safety caused by this increase in productivity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u66	Mr President, Minister, on 22 December, the Inter-federal Centre for Equal Opportunities announced in the press that SNCB did not take sufficient account of the needs of people with reduced mobility in its investments. In 2016, it opened 20 cases concerning persons with disabilities complaining about the lack of accessibility of trains, wharves or stations. This is a record since in 2013, he had 8; 15 in 2014 and 18 in 2015. It is not the only organization that questions SNCB on this subject. For years, the National Council of Persons with Disabilities has also addressed this issue of accessibility. "In October of this year, François Bellot, Minister of Mobility, said he had received the advice of Unia. In his view, SNCB will do its best to monitor them as part of the management contract activities. It should be noted that the height of the wharfs currently varies between 28 and 76 cm. In December 2015, however, SNCB opted to standardize the height of the 76 cm docks. The minister then stated that 'the standardization of docks is a priority. It will be ensured that enhancement programming is included in the management contracts of Infrabel and SNCB'." One of the complaints of the Equal Opportunities Centre concerns the recent purchase of 445 M7 trainsets. The height of these trains does not correspond to the height of the standard docks. SNCB responded on 23 December by stating that each train had a train specifically equipped for persons with reduced mobility. But it is true that these trains are lower than the height of the standard docks. Another complaint concerns new stations such as Brussels-Schuman which are not accessible to people with reduced mobility, the elderly or those travelling with a stroller, children or those carrying heavy suitcases, etc. The problem of failed escalators has already been raised. However, on 2 July 2009, Belgium ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It is true that people with reduced mobility can count on personal assistance to get on or off the train at 131 stations across the country, provided they request it 24 hours in advance. In 18 other stations, the time limit is 3 hours, with a contact number for booking assistance which is then paid. This is done via a website that is not suitable for visually impaired and blind people. My different questions are as follows. Are you ready to prepare an action plan with your colleagues in the Regions, or on your own, with a clear timing to improve the accessibility of transport for people with reduced mobility? Is there a plan to improve assistance, free of charge if possible, to persons with reduced mobility? I am thinking of making the call numbers for this service free of charge and shortening the booking times. Is there a plan to make SNCB sites accessible to blind or visually impaired people? Finally, SNCB says that the height of the wharfs is standardized to 76 centimetres. Is this height an absolute requirement when renovating stations? Are there any additional investments to be made to adapt all docks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I emphasised in my policy paper of 1 May 2016, rail transport will have to make important contributions in the coming years to meeting increasing mobility needs. In accordance with the technical specifications for persons with reduced mobility and under the new management contract, SNCB has drawn up a national implementation plan in consultation with the FPS Mobility and my cabinet. Indeed, the European Regulation No. 1300/2014 of 18 November 2014 on accessibility of the rail system for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility provides in Article 8 that Member States should draw up a national implementation plan on accessibility. This national implementation plan shall include a strategy for at least 10 years with priorities and criteria to determine which stations and which rolling stock should be renewed or adapted. The FPS Mobility and Transport developed this plan in 2016 with SNCB and Infrabel. The National High Council for Persons with Disability was asked for advice. The plan was transferred to the competent service of the European Commission in mid-December 2016. As far as your second question is concerned, I am also finalising the new management contract between the State and SNCB. In this contract much attention was paid to the chapter on corporate social responsibility, with the important part devoted to full accessibility for people with reduced mobility in this chapter. SNCB is in constant consultation with the NHRPH to listen to persons with reduced mobility, to improve the service and accessibility of the stations and trains. To apply for assistance, the person with reduced mobility has the choice to submit his application via the Internet or by phone. It is a unique and central number for all SNCB's customers, including persons with reduced mobility. In order to reduce the time limit for reservation, the deadline for reservation of assistance from SNCB is 24 hours. In 18 stations that is three hours as between these stations is traveled without connection. In this way, appropriate guidance can be guaranteed. SNCB is currently examining the possibility of accepting connections for journeys between these 18 stations as long as they occur in one of the 18 stations in question. Although the SNCB website does not currently carry the AnySurfer label, the website is accessible to the blind, visually impaired and other people with disabilities. Another important point is the standard height of the platforms, especially 76 cm between the top of the rail and the platform. For this purpose, Infrabel, responsible for the construction of the platforms, and SNCB, responsible for the upholstery of the platforms, will have to make the necessary arrangements through the future multi-annual railway investment plan, another dossier currently under preparation. Although the three platform heights are present in the stations, all renewed platforms are run as standard at 76 cm. It is indeed intended that all platforms are brought to this standard height of 76 cm in the long term so that the trains that stop at these platforms allow a comfortable single-floor crossing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u68	Thank you, Minister. I take note of your good New Year's resolutions for people with reduced mobility. I hope that they will not remain in the state of resolutions but that they will come to fruition. With regard to the website which is not compliant but which is nevertheless very accessible, it is clearly not the opinion of all interested persons that would like the website to be compliant for the visually impaired and the blind. As for the height of the docks at 76 centimetres, you do point out this obligation for SNCB and Infrabel to concert, since it is a shared responsibility. Perhaps this is one more argument among all those who already exist to defend a merger of SNCB and Infrabel. It seems to me that you have heard the matter at some point, arguing that the split between SNCB and Infrabel was not necessarily a good thing. For my part, I repeat that if you go in this direction, you will have our full support because we have indeed always denounced this split. Finally, there is also the fact that M7s are visibly inconsistent with this 76-centimetre standardization. That is a problem. And it is again people with reduced mobility who will be victims of this lack of standardization.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 15675 has already been dealt with under item 14 as a joint question. Questions Nos 15698 and 15706 by Mr Calomne are postponed because he is ill. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 15724 has already been dealt with as the first item of the sitting today. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 15726 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u70	Minister, I thank you for delivering your letter to the committee. I asked for this during the budget discussion. This letter was written to Infrabel in June and we received a copy and explanation from you in a letter dated 23 December 2016. At the heart of the matter is the distribution key and the impact on the debt of the companies Infrabel and SNCB. I come immediately to my questions without synthesizing the letter. Other fellow Members have also received the letter. Firstly, during a hearing in Parliament on the debt position of SNCB and Infrabel, both CFOs indicated that there was a problem with the debt. In particular, the refinancing of expired debt will be a problem in their view. Are you aware of this and do you acknowledge that, Minister? You state in your letter that the debt does not increase compared to 2014. I refer again to the hearings. In my notes I found that Infrabel's debt decreased slightly in 2014 after the new distribution. In 2015, there was a stabilisation, but the CFO said that the outlook for 2016 was less bright. For 2017 and the following years, the forecasts were definitely less positive. Secondly, what was the consolidated debt with Infrabel and SNCB on 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015? What is the forecast for 31 December 2016 and the following years? Thirdly, paying off the debt will depend on the operational outcome of the two companies. If the operating result is worse in an ongoing financial year, if a negative result is achieved in the current financial statements, is there sufficient margin to finance the debt? Fourthly, on the basis of your letter, I wonder whether there is an approved financial plan at SNCB and Infrabel, because there is an allusion to a draft from KB which would be submitted to the Council of Ministers on 23 December. Where are we at now? Those are my specific questions after I read the letter twice. I admit that. It's only then that I've been able to figure everything out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u71	The management of SNCB and that of Infrabel are making the necessary efforts to provide for the refinancing of their company's debt. For example, SNCB recently launched a refinancing operation at the European Investment Bank with a property on the new M7 vehicles. In general, the financial support and the strong link between the State and the public undertaking certainly favour the negotiation between the latter and the creditors. The companies were informed in July 2016 of the resources made available to them. The Board of Directors of SNCB approved a draft business plan and the multi-annual investment plan. For his part, the Board of Directors of Infrabel has not yet done so. As early as October, I called on Infrabel to speed up work, since SNCB had already submitted the requested drafts. On 6 January 2017, in line with the allocation of available resources, a Royal Decree was published as a provisional measure for the allocation of the amounts for the period 2016-2020. In accordance with the 1991 Act, the business plans, multi-annual investment plans and management contracts are closely linked. In addition to the resources granted by the State, the companies have assumed a number of assumptions to prepare their business plan. However, these assumptions still need to be confirmed in the context of the negotiation of the respective management contracts. At this stage it is too early to communicate accurately about the evolution of the company's debt, but I can assure you that I pay great attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I know this is a very technical subject. I also know that you will pay due attention to this. However, the core of the issue is to ensure that the debt is properly monitored and that there are operational results, in order to ensure the continuity of the operations of the companies. A few months ago, questions were asked here about the rating. I thought the answer was a little short-sighted, because it cannot be said that a rating deteriorates by taking other measures. I will certainly continue to ask these questions as a parliamentary audit. I know they are more technical than the delay of a particular line, but it is very important to keep an eye on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u73	Question No 15739 by Mr Flahaux is postponed. Question No 15744 by Mr Devin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u74	Mijnheer de voorzitter; Minister, on 14 December 2016, I asked you a question about line 130A (Charleroi-Erquelinnes) and its possible extension to Paris. Before the Thalys, this line linked Charleroi, Maubeuge, Saint-Quentin and Paris. In response to that question, you replied that SNCB had conducted a study on the subject and had submitted it to its Executive Committee on March 21, 2016. You told me that you couldn't communicate it to me because it was commercial. In your view, this study had concluded that the scenario of a Paris-Maubuge-Charleroi relationship was technically not possible in the short term because neither SNCB nor SNCF had the appropriate certified equipment. It is a locomotive 3,000 continuous volts, 25,000 alternative volts, equipped with ERTMS and certified both on the Belgian network and on the French network, i.e. a bicurrent train. I told you that I was quite surprised because there is freight traffic on this line. On November 9, 2016, eight months after the SNCB report, you told the IGRETEC Strategic Development Committee in Charleroi, of which I am a member, that a link to Maubeuge would be possible. That's in the note you filed. In your opinion, "bicurrent" trainsets required for this link would be available at the end of 2018, early 2019. You explained that SNCB should then study this cross-border link, its potential and its feasibility. Minister, why did you claim to the Strategic Development Committee on 9 November 2016 that the link to Maubeuge would be the subject of a study when you told me the opposite on 14 December, based on a report from SNCB dated March 2016? You state that the trainsets will be available at the end of 2018, early 2019. Will these "bicurrent" trainsets be well received at the end of 2018? If a study is carried out concerning the link to Maubeuge and if the appropriate equipment is available, why not then extend this line to Paris?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u75	Mr Massin, the misunderstanding seems to me to be linked to the time frame within which things are put into perspective. The March 2016 study considered the various alternatives to Thalys Wallon and concluded that in the short term neither SNCB nor SNCF had adequate equipment. It is obvious that as part of an alternative to Thalys, the study focused on a direct cross-border relationship to Maubeuge and Paris, although a correspondence relationship at Maubeuge was also studied without being budgeted. I confirm that the connection to Maubeuge and Paris can be considered and, therefore, studied from the point of view of potential and feasibility when SNCB has the certified locomotives. But this cannot be achieved before the end of 2018 or the beginning of 2019, at the earliest. SNCB has initiated a certification process for its locomotives in this direction, but it is too early to determine a specific date for commissioning. Since then, I have also asked SNCB to contact SNCF, in order to study the possibility of making a railway loop of Avesnois connecting La Louvière, Mons, Aulnoye-Aymeries, Maubeuge, Jeumont, Erquelinnes and Charleroi in order to be able to match the SNCF trains connecting Maubeuge-Paris. It is obvious that these bicurrent trains, if approved for this loop, could go on other lines in France. To date, no doors have been closed. We asked SNCB to consider all possible solutions. I must say that there are other files in the pipe, especially between Mons and Valenciennes, which depend on the same technical difficulties. This type of certification between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has just been applied to 8 trains. It's the same thing. We are trying to solve all security problems at European level, but we realize that the ETCS is bothering us by re-establishing "border" effects that are difficult to resolve. Same for electric potentials, which are different. A difficulty was added to the existing difficulty. I confirm what I said in Charleroi. We have commissioned SNCB to look at all the opportunities at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u76	Minister, you seem to be more willing and more optimistic than in your December 14 response. At that time, I had the impression that any connection between Charleroi and Paris through Maubeuge-Saint-Quentin seemed to me to be purely and simply dead. That surprised me, especially after your statements of 9 November in Charleroi. I ask you to be careful that there is no connection of files between the loop you are talking about and a possible direct link between Charleroi and Maubeuge, thus Saint-Quentin, therefore Paris. The folding trains, within the framework of this loop you are talking about, already exist, sometimes with load breaks. This means that all passengers can be folded down at Charleroi train station and then take the international train to Paris. We must be careful that we do not come to tell you, despite the presence of certified equipment, that we cannot set up the international link until we have set up the loop, the different agreements, the different schedules and carried out the different studies, etc. The potential for travellers between Charleroi and Paris is present. What you are going to do is replace the Thalys Namur-Charleroi-Mons-Paris link with a Charleroi-Paris line, with the fact that people who want to take this link from Namur will first have to take the Namur-Charleroi line and there will be no direct link from Namur to Paris. From the moment the attendance rate on the Thalys Walloon was good (more than 50%), it means that tomorrow you will have a great potential for travellers. That is why I insist on the fact that we do not condition the setting up of a link by the loop, because you risk permanently losing this potential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u77	Mr President, I wish everyone present my best wishes for 2017. Minister, SNCB has just announced the creation of working groups to explore the possibility of driving trains without attendants. The train system with a single agent on board (the driver) would be tested as early as 2019 on small lines, then extended to the local lines serving the major cities and finally applied to the RER around Brussels. The proven goal of this new system is to reduce the wage bill. In the long term, 638 accompanying posts would be abolished, while 169 additional posts would be created to ensure safety and flying controls on trains. In the long run, it would therefore be 469 full-time equivalents saved by SNCB, saving on the estimated wage bill of 28 million per year. In addition to a legislative amendment, since the Act currently requires the presence of an attendant on each train, the SNCB will also have to have the whole new procedure validated by the SSICF, the official and independent body responsible for monitoring and investigating rail safety. I must confess, Minister, that this system of unaccompanied trains leaves me particularly perplexed both for reasons of passenger safety, of service to persons with reduced mobility and of correct information given to passengers. In this regard, I share the concern expressed by the European railway unions, which had launched an awareness campaign against such a decision at the end of 2015. Of course, in Île de France, the EAS (Equipment Agent Alone) system works for 90% for 6 500 trains but very sincerely, in view of our public service obligations, is this not inappropriate in view of our delays in terms of infrastructure or punctuality? This project seems to me to be mainly marked by a desire to communicate in order to hide other priorities. I will conclude by considering that in terms of the savings to be achieved, it is particularly damaging to attack staff once again when we know the situation of certain subsidiaries of SNCB. It would certainly be more opportune to streamline the structures of SNCB, not only in terms of efficiency, but above all in terms of economies of scale. Therefore, Minister, can you please let me know: a) whether the small rural lines and lines, which would be tested as early as 2019, have already been the subject of an initial determination? (b) whether proper analyses will be carried out with similar systems on railway networks in neighbouring countries, in particular with regard to an optimal safety guarantee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u78	Dear colleague, SNCB has indicated that the intention is to start this project on low-speed diesel lines. No test line has yet been determined to organize the necessary tests. Prior to the implementation of the project, extensive risk analyses will be carried out with regard to safety of operation and people. This is obviously one of the sine qua non conditions for obtaining the approval of the security body, which is of course the last to have a say in validating or not the new organisational principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic560x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answer, which reassures me somewhat. We'll see what happens. In any case, it is clear that safety is the priority in this case. Moreover, the loss of jobs is a very present concern. We do not want to lose too many staff as a result of this process. Thank you for your reassuring answers... for now.
