ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u2	The meeting has resumed. The discussion is resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u3	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for our group, the fight against tax fraud is important, and this is proof of the fact that we want to discuss some of the recommendations and work in committee with two Members. Don't worry, I won't take too long. I would like to dwell on one recommendation in particular. As a lawyer, I myself am a bit of an expert on experience, and I think there are still a lot of profits to be made in this respect. I attach great importance to the unconditional introduction of the mandate disclosure rules of the OECD BEPS Plan, in line with Action Line 12. In the future, tax schemes must be notified once they are made available to the customer. It concerns all tax schemes containing offshore structures and/or tax havens and constructions drawn up by financial intermediaries and tax advisors, with the aim of circumventing the CRS reporting. Therefore, this is not only a reporting obligation for relevant customers or banks or financial intermediaries, but also for consultants, for all tax schemes related to circumvention constructions. I think that we can effectively do much more against tax evasion than is currently the case. I refer to a country which has already introduced it and which you yourself are happy to refer to. The figures from the United Kingdom show that in the early years the legislative work to close loopholes has increased enormously, as much information on tax constructions and plans became known at that time. Until 2013, 925 tax structures of the 2 366 in the United Kingdom were broken down by legislative intervention, bringing millions to the British Treasury. Even Ireland, a country to which you have already referred, Minister, has in turn been able to raise some EUR 12 billion in ten years by tackling the aggressive fiscal schemes, including the introduction of special reporting obligations and the imposition of conditions on financial intermediaries. That measure has therefore proved its worth in a number of countries, and not least, to which we would also like to refer in other areas. So we certainly need to work on that recommendation. Furthermore, I continue to stress the importance of standardising the tax procedure, as well as raising the deadline for the tax assessment, in order to give so much more room for manoeuvre in the tax investigation. Finally, but not least, I would like to dwell on the need to improve and improve the effectiveness of the actual criminal proceedings. You are not directly responsible for the actual criminal proceedings, that is your colleague Geens. He is currently in the process of reforming criminal law and criminal proceedings. This is yet another ambitious reform of criminal procedure. He could include a number of measures to improve the actual criminal investigation in the event of tax evasion and tax fraud. I would just like to refer to the need to address the problem of Franchimont investigations, to the fact that the public prosecutors should have access to financial data in a uniform manner, and also to the possibility for the tax administration to take on a civil party in criminal proceedings. I also think that could contribute a lot. We have made clear choices in the recommendations for a coherent approach to both fiscal and criminal proceedings. We have opted for a dual system. I'm declaring myself. We strongly advocated in the recommendations, in particular CD&V, a coherent approach to tax fraud, with a clear coordination mission, before the investigation begins, not during or after, in order to save time. The building blocks for this are, firstly, a fixed coordination body, which steers and controls the fight against fraud and money laundering. This role could be assigned to the existing fraud college. A Committee F should also be set up, which we have been advocating for a while. Secondly, there must be a policy of tax prosecution with clear guidelines, without distinguishing between ordinary, serious and very serious fraud. Any form of fraud must be dealt with in an appropriate manner. That is why we are proposing a dual system in the prosecution policy. Ordinary fraud is dealt with administratively. That can usually happen quickly. Serious tax fraud is being dealt with under criminal law. For this purpose, the Attorney General shall draw up a circular indicating the una-via criteria. There will therefore be a clear coherent una-via approach. That concludes my comments on the recommendations relating to the reform of criminal proceedings. I am sure they can and will make a clear contribution to tackling tax fraud. I am also thinking of the recommendations relating to the organisation of the administration, which some of my colleagues have already mentioned. I'm thinking about staffing. What do they put it in? Moreover, as the opposition has often said, it does not always have to be about extra staff on those administrations. The hearings have shown that we must first look at where the deficits are and for which investigations staff must be removed elsewhere. We must be careful not to create new bottlenecks. If, for example, tax experts are to be employed in the public prosecutor's office, then we must ensure that the power can be prosecuted and that the court that is to deal with the case afterwards also has additional capacity. It is not just a portal for additional capacity, and the investigation can then be safeguarded in all links of the research chain, both at the tax administration and the public prosecutor's office as well as at the court of first instance and the courts of appeal. Especially at the Brussels appeal court, there is a very big problem. Special attention must be paid to this. I'm closing up. A lot of work has been done on that committee. Our group has also put a great deal of work into it, because we believe that it is an important committee and that it has not been produced without reason. We have taken the opportunity, as I said earlier, to work with the Panama Papers in our Parliament, just like the European Parliament. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is a very international problem. Our work alone will not be enough to live up to our ambition to tackle tax fraud better. I therefore challenge you, Minister, to use the Belgian work we did here not only internally but also as an extension at European level. I hope you will. We can then show that as a small country we have said this still can and must be large in a number of domains. This certainly applies to the fiscal domain. Our country has always played a leading role in European integration and harmonisation. Well, let our country also play a leading role in fiscal harmonisation and integration, showing that Europe can also be a strong Europe with strong countries of establishment, not in competition with each other. It must be a strong Europe, fair to its citizens and businesses, with a just contribution from all. So I challenge you to make the work of the recommendations not only internal work, but also to place it on the European agenda. You must keep knocking on the same nail with a view to achieving tax harmonisation in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u4	Mr President, I would like to begin by calling for your particular attention and express my special thanks to Parliament. I've been a member of this assembly since July 2004. I can tell you in all conscience that tax fraud and tax evasion have always been elements for which this Chamber has paid particular attention. We had an exceptionally strong committee of inquiry in 2009 which made a number of recommendations. A few of the current Members of Parliament were on that committee at the time. Mr Gilkinet and Mr Van der Maelen were then members of that committee, as were Mr Van de Velde, who was admitted as independent. I think we will then be around with those who sat on that committee at that time. It is exceptional that a Parliament pays particular attention to tax fraud for so many years. As chairman of the Subcommittee for the Court of Auditors, I can also tell you that I regularly speak with foreign colleagues. They are surprised at what has happened here in this assembly in the face of tax fraud. Colleagues, perhaps there is also the answer to the question as to why in many other countries the Panama Papers have led to the resignation of ministers or the fall of a government, even to the unmasking of a number of people with a great deal of influence on third parties. With us, the Panama Papers have made a special impression on constructions, but Parliament has also been working on this issue, through the formulation of a number of recommendations to identify and manage such tax fraud. That explains why such constructions are not surprising to this Parliament, or less so than in other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, after today, we must all stand shoulder to shoulder again, because Parliament is making a number of recommendations to the government. Whatever the composition of the government, with these recommendations, this Parliament again sets out the direction in which we must fight tax fraud in the future. It sets out the direction for future ministers and for the people who will discuss this for our country at international level. That is the essence of the matter. We are making the recommendations here. We'll indicate the direction. We say where they can go and what they can do to combat tax fraud. We did that in 2009 and we are doing it again today. I am particularly grateful to the chairman of the committee for using the Panama Papers to update all the services involved in the fight against tax fraud. He brought them to Parliament so that we could talk to them about how we can deal with tax fraud together. It may be said that something is too little or too much about it, or that something is not right, but this report gives us the right direction in which this Parliament should work in the future. Whatever the outcome of the vote, it will appear that this report will be important to combat tax fraud in the future. It is also important that we retain the exemplary role of this Parliament. A colleague of mine said at a meeting of the international umbrella organisation of mathematicians that we are exemplary in this area. Whatever the next election means, this direction will be maintained. Parliament will retain its autonomy to set out in all areas the direction that our country must take to combat tax fraud. Everyone must realise that tax fraud is one of the most serious crimes in this country. We must ensure that there is fairness, that everyone pays the right taxes at the right time and that everyone is treated equally in this area. This applies both to every citizen and to every company. The fact that we have not reached a consensus is because in some areas there are indeed differences of opinion between certain trends in our society. Although we could have done that last time, we have not been able to bridge it this time. That makes sense, too. Mr Laaouej has just given his views on the points that could not be accepted. Mr Laaouej, I agree with you on this point. We could not go with you on many points where you wanted to go further or in another direction. In some areas, we have resolutely asked the experts to give us the two views. In the end, we have made a majority choice. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing is better than having a majority in a Parliament. Nothing is better than getting the majority position finally included in a report. We would rather not have a position on certain points or a discussion on subjects in which we have been working for so long. Mr Laaouej, I would like to briefly discuss with you the points where we saw differences and we could not go with you. There are indeed differences between us and you, mainly sp.a and PS. After all, we must honestly admit that CdH and Ecolo-Green abstained in the vote on the recommendations and in the overall vote and that only the PS and sp.a voted firmly against. That is, of course, a fundamental difference in vision. I repeat Mr Dispa's words in the final vote, I believe that it was also Mr Gilkinet's words 'that great steps have been taken in the right direction or that smaller steps have been taken, but that the direction is at least the right one'. Of course, that's what binds us. Mr Gilkinet, you will, of course, be able to elaborate on this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u5	I will speak earlier to explain our vote, Mr Van Biesen, but I do not allow you to interpret it in my place. We have suggested measures that are well reflected in the final report. That is why we will not vote against it, despite the criticisms that we have to make by the majority. But do not interpret this constructive attitude as enthusiasm for the sabotage of the work of the commission that you practiced during the final sprint.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u6	Mr Gilkinet, it is a pity that you always fall into the same terminology, but that will be characteristic. I consider this, in other words, not to be a real comment. Let us now discuss the points on which we disagree. The first point is the Antigoon doctrine. That is why the experts have indicated two possible directions. We are making a recommendation on the anti-goal reasoning in tax law. This doctrine states that unlawful evidence may still be used in tax proceedings. Today there is no legal framework for this and we believe that this leads to legal uncertainty. We must avoid that this regulation would encourage arbitrary public intervention by, for example, tax officials. We are clearly going in the opposite direction to what the doctrine says, namely that everything that is wrongly obtained can always be used anywhere. Sometimes it was important for the majority to draw our colleagues' attention to the taxpayer's charter and to the fact that every taxpayer has rights in addition to obligations. Those rights should certainly not be harmed. A second important element on which we disagree with the Socialists is the extension of the powers of the FSMA and the National Bank. The PS and the sp.a wanted to set up two new tax control institutions alongside the BBI. We didn't think that was the right way. The BBI is the institution responsible for detecting tax fraud and, ultimately, must indicate where that fraud can be brought to justice. It is not up to the FSMA or the National Bank to play fiscal controller. Another important element that has just been discussed regularly concerns the direction of the administration itself. In this context, we make it very clear that more people, more opportunities and more resources should be made available. We have formulated this under one broad global heading. We thought it was clear that all these services should be entrusted with the right resources, the right opportunities and the right people with the right training. However, that was not enough for the opposition, which wanted to include a quantifiable statement in the recommendation, as Mr Laaouej explained earlier. Sometimes the opposition even wanted to place a percentage on certain recommendations, for example 20% more staff, so that the matter would be resolved. Of course, that is not the right direction, because the recommendations we are making are valid not only today and are addressed not only to this government but also to future governments. We are making recommendations which will determine the policy on tax fraud over the next ten years. So it is not about how many people there are today and how many need to be raised, but about the fact that the administration must be given the right people, the right resources and the right opportunities. This also means that we will have to invest a lot in such a way that we are at the same level as all the institutions which today have third parties who can develop tax arrangements abroad. The administration must be able to fight tax fraud by the same means as the fraudsters themselves. So the direction we are heading is the same, the only difference being that the opposition wants to focus its recommendations on the current government while it should apply to the present and the next governments. Another point on which we also disagree is the friendly settlement. If one sits around the table with 17 members and 11 of them go in a certain direction, then they form a majority. It seems logical to me that the report reflects this majority view. Let us be honest, leaving out such a majority position would not have been correct. Eleven of the 17 members asked for the friendly settlement to be included in the report. In each committee and at each hearing, it was asked to introduce the extended friendly settlement as soon as possible. Eleven of the 17 members of the committee have argued in this direction. It is therefore logical that this should be stated in the report. The fact that one then says not to accept the majority is a bit unfortunate. We live in a democracy and a majority can still take a majority position. For us in the report, a minority position should have been in addition to a majority position, but it was not possible for us to amend and change the direction of the position. This is also the reason why we pointed out the clear majority of 11 out of 17 on all the points on which we differed. In a democracy, this must be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u7	Mr Van Biesen, I naturally agree with your last remark. Eleven out of 17 is a majority, and we respect that. However, please do not tell us that you do not understand why we do not approve the report. If there is only what the majority wants and what we are against, then it is quite obvious that it is an important point for us that we do not approve it. Moreover, it is not true that everyone has argued in favour of maintaining the friendly settlement. I shall come back to my point just now, in particular the report of our experts. That report states that, in the context of fiscal prosecution policy, a distinction must be made between ordinary tax fraud, serious tax fraud and very serious tax fraud. In the context of the latter, the experts proposed to exclude the possibility of an extended friendly settlement. So, if you say that everyone has pleaded for the rapid introduction of the extended friendly settlement, then this is in fact wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u8	Mr Vanvelthoven, you are mistaken. In the first design of the experts were four degrees. Do you remember? The expert note first mentioned four degrees. You also supported the original, first gradation, namely that there is impunity. No one can ever be made a criminal offence for the ordinary little fraud. That was the first point of view. Then we talked about three degrees, and in the end we landed on two degrees by a clear majority. Even your best friend, Mr Claise, made it clear at the RTBF that the sooner the friendly settlement would have a legal framework again, the better it would be for tax fraud so that the government would at least be able to recover its money before it would expire. Even Mr Claise thought that, and he is not the one who has the greatest sympathy for this majority. Experts suggested four gradations, then three gradations and eventually landed on two gradations. That is a majority position, Mr Vanvelthoven. Another point on which we did not agree, Mr Laaouej, and which shows why we had to work in this way, is that even if we give the services all the means and possibilities, the limitation period for tax fraud cases still had to be extended to many other periods, from five to eight years and sometimes ten years. That's contradictory. If one says in the first recommendation that each service must be performant and have sufficient resources, and then says that it will not be enough to do it within five years and we will add a few more years, then that report contradicts itself. And a report that contradicts itself, this majority had no ears for it. There are five or six points on which we did indeed differ, which each of us is entitled to. Above all, what is important is the direction that is being taken, even after those five to eight years, even after all the reports. On the one hand, there is the report here, on the other hand, there is the very bulky book in which all the conversations are with everyone we have heard. The direction that everyone pointed out is the direction this Parliament is heading. That is why I am still very proud to have been the first Vice-President in the first Committee on Tax Fraud and Vice-President in the Panama Papers. I am particularly proud that we have been working very hard in this House over the last ten years on combating tax fraud and we are setting out the right recommendations and the right direction in which tax fraud should be tackled. After this report, please let us transcend the gap between majority and opposition and come to the essence of the matter, without trying to assess the current government on the basis of these recommendations. It is now up to them to include these recommendations. It is up to Mr Van Overtveldt to change his policy with these recommendations in the direction indicated here today. This applies not only to Minister Van Overtveldt, but to all ministers responsible for combating tax fraud over the next ten years. I hope that Parliament will have the same strength as it has over the last ten years to follow this up, so that everyone knows that our country, whatever it may be, is taking a clear example for many other countries in the fight against tax fraud. That can also be said out loud.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no problem with the majority. We differ in a number of areas, and that is a good thing. I have just said a few words about the way in which the report has been drawn up, and I am not going to go back to that either. The purpose of my speech is to explain why and on what points we disagree with the majority. You are right, Mr Van Biesen, it was not the intention of the long-term work of the Panama Commission to produce a report containing recommendations that should be implemented next year. It was intended to indicate a direction, and this for more than one legislature. However, that does not exonerate the Minister of Finance today; he has to do what he has to do over the next two years, while he is still at the head of the Ministry of Finance. What are we missing? I've noted a few points. It is important to clarify this tonight. What we often hear when we talk about the Panama Papers, and certainly about the Paradise Papers, is that it is about avoidance and that this is not really a problem, that this is not really illegal. I think everyone agrees, it has been said here by most speakers, there needs to be more transparency. We are talking about fencing companies. The word itself says it, that are companies that protect something. Those are companies that protect who's really behind it. If we want transparency, we must say clearly and clearly that we do not allow such constructions. In other words, we simply have to ban screen companies. That makes us illegalize them. This means that we do not have the debate afterwards that such constructions are actually legal, that they are not prohibited. Unfortunately, our plea for a ban on the sale of fencing companies has been killed in committee. Furthermore, I find it incomprehensible that it does not seem to make any difference to the majority whether someone is cheating 100 euros or 100 million euros. We have discussed this very seriously. In order to determine whether it is a matter of ordinary fraud or a matter of serious tax fraud, we had tabled an amendment to the effect that the amount of the evasion of taxes or of fraud should also be an element of the assessment. Colleagues of the committee, I honestly assumed that this was a very obvious amendment. I had the impression that Mr Van Biesen wanted to go along with that for a piece. Unfortunately, after a lot of discussion, however, it was no pasarán with our N-VA colleagues. I believe that it is clear to everyone that if we have to distinguish between ordinary and serious tax fraud, the amount of tax evasion should also be a criterion. Unfortunately, that amendment was rejected. The next point that we have raised on several occasions is the very minimal attitude of our committee in the recommendations on the international fight against tax fraud. I have had the impression all along that this is also reflected in the texts 'that the recommendations formulated by the majority are more likely to provoke resistance and inhibition. The opposition's proposals to give our country a leading role at international level and to implement the international standards, which have been decided upon in the meantime, in a voluntaristic manner, have been constantly blocked. Let me give you some examples. With regard to the transposition of the Money Laundering Directive and the money laundering standards, the majority in its recommendation does not want to go beyond the timely transposition of minimum standards. We do not need the recommendation for that, which is an international obligation. Our ambition was to do more than the minimum. In this respect, the experts, too, had proposed that the minimum standards should be exceeded as far as possible in the case of transposition. That was in the report of the experts, but has disappeared in the recommendations of the majority. The same story applies to the OECD standards on double taxation conventions. The recommendation is to fill in new international standards as little as possible by quoting 'to limit the transposition of minimum standards'. So once again it is the minimum and no more than the minimum. So all our proposals to be more voluntarist were rejected. We have always heard the argument that nothing much can be done internally and that everything has to be regulated at international and European level. Europe is issuing directives and leaves Member States a range of the absolute minimum to much more. However, the Committee of Inquiry recommends that we do the absolute minimum while other countries in Europe do much more than we do. That's unfortunate. Even in our committee on combating international tax fraud, we have not had the courage to recommend that the present and future governments should do more and play a leading role in this matter. In my view, that is absolutely a missed opportunity. The definition of tax havens has also been briefly discussed. I would almost like to repeat what Mr Deseyn said. He has stated that it is not in that area because in a country a rate has a certain level, that we have to decide that the country in question is a tax haven. It is happening today that the nominal rate is a reasonable rate. In fact, however, no taxes are paid in that country. It doesn't happen in the facts. What we need to look at, if we really want to avoid paying taxes anywhere and there is no double non-taxation, is the effective tax burden. We have proposed this in amendments, but they have been voted away.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u10	That it was voted off is not entirely correct, Mr Vanvelthoven. We discussed this in committee. You refer to the problem of not effectively taxing in a particular country with which treaties are concluded. This can be resolved by adapting the double taxation treaties. That is a recommendation that has been included in the package of recommendations. It contains several recommendations on double taxation treaties, but the specific problem to which you have rightly referred and the article to which several references have been made, on the billions that have been secreted from Belgium to Dubai, have to do with the adaptation of the double taxation treaties to clarify for contracting countries that definitively taxed income and the words "definitively taxed" mean more than is taxed for subtracting or applying discounts. It is considered as a general rule, after any applicable discounts or deductions are applied to the tax regime. That is the problem with a number of countries, including Dubai. The problem is not resolved in the proposal that you put forward in your amendment, but in the recommendations on the re-negotiation of double taxation treaties to clarify that concept of "determinatively taxed'.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u11	Colleague, we fully support the re-negotiation and review of our double taxation treaties in the light of what has happened in recent times. We support the Minister in that, if he starts doing so, but if the Minister has to look at it again, would it be good that Parliament should tell him to look at the effective tax burden in the countries with which we are concluding a double taxation treaty or not? That is what we said in our amendment. You come up with the explanation that it should only be done in the context of the double taxation treaties. That's right, that's where it has to be. But it would be a good thing if the Special Committee on Panama Papers at least told the Minister to look at the effective tax burden in those countries if he renegotiated the double taxation treaties. That is what we are asking for, and we have asked the committee to support it, but it did not want to include it in its texts. You say that today and you explain it, but it's not in there. That's a missed opportunity. The next point on which we disagree is banking secrecy and third party reporting. We also discussed this earlier. I don't remember through which social medium Twitter or facebook Mr Deseyn in the coffee room spread the message that there was an agreement in the majority on the special committee Panama Papers. Coffee room or back room, it's very similar. However, it was important what the committee would decide, not what the majority in the coffee room would decide. Apart from that, Mr Van Biesen's reaction was very quick. Mr Deseyn said that banking secrecy in Belgium was finally a thing of the past, but Mr Van Biesen reacted immediately. Had it not been such a serious subject, it would of course have been laughable. If we then discussed it in committee, we had to massage on all sides to ensure that the same thing was actually said. I must say that Mr Van Biesen was right. When I read the lyrics, I see that there has been no end to banking secrecy in our country. Let's face it, we just talked about it. There too, there are the words of Mr Deseyn who says that what was internationally by those 90 countries is absolutely fantastic and that this would happen in our country too. However, we are not doing it. We don't recommend it. There is no automatic data exchange in Belgium, because your texts contain a condition, "as far as it is useful and necessary." That is not stated anywhere at international level. This is being introduced into our country. Workers' wages are published to the tax authorities, pensioners' pensions are published to the tax authorities, and the benefits are published to the tax authorities. All this is done automatically, but it does not say "as far as it is useful and necessary." So you've let yourself roll. I understand that you want to explain this afterwards, but here we are not doing what was agreed internationally. Here we do less again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u12	Nor is it what you explicitly say and what is a logical consequence of a number of recommendations in the context of effective control, nor do we do that for other countries. We give the identity and we report that an account has been held and at which institution. When it comes to adequate control, if you compare it with wages and pensions, we will go into this in more detail. Then it's about amounts and transaction levels. You say that this is not happening now, but nothing is happening tonight, because we have not yet implemented any legislative amendment or regulation with the adoption of the recommendations. That's the job for the next few months. That'll be very interesting. We shall then take up the glove again. We also expect the government's commitment. We have also tabled our own legislative proposal on this exchange. That's legislative work. I call on everyone, in particular our fellow Commissioners in the Finance Committee and the Chairman, to give sufficient time for the discussion of the proposals and drafts in this area and where we will be able to discuss the substance and see how we will organise them practically and in what manner. I do not contradict your analysis, but I am a little more optimistic about the possibilities in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u13	I understand your optimism. You have some experience: the experience of the added value tax on shares. You have often confessed this in Parliaments, and that would therefore be settled in the government. It's almost time, I think, because you're optimistic. That's the same story here. You lost the discussion in the coffee room. Now we need legislative work, that's right, but you've already lost. I find it pathetic how you come back with the same thing now, when you have already had to say in the discussion with the other majority parties: it is not automatic, it is not as it is regulated internationally, it is not like laws and wages, it is not like pensions, because there must be a condition for tax data. You approved this, so this will be it. We all know that now. Otherwise, we wouldn't have to approve that, would we?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u14	Speak again about the added value on shares, because you will not be unaware that the Summer Agreement within the company context...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u15	Don't hurt yourself too much!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u16	You can say something about the size of the step, but that steps are being taken in this legislature, not only for the securities tax or the caiman tax or other provisions, is highly distinctive from the era that preceded it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u17	Whatever you were a part of, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u18	Mr Vanvelthoven, the international exchange of data takes place on the basis of the elements needed to complete the declaration. The double taxation treaties and agreements concluded with the countries require that we know which interest or dividends were on a particular account in the year on which the tax return was made. The country concerned is obliged to forward this banking information to the tax authorities. That's what's needed. It is the code 1.4.4.4 of our tax return that determines what profits one had in foreign accounts. All the countries that have signed an agreement with us do not have the same rules for internal accounts in that country. For example, to take your model country until recently, France gives us this information, which is useful and necessary for us, because it allows the tax authorities to verify that the code 1.4.4.4 has been correctly filled in. In France, however, no bank is obliged to pass all the movements on to the tax authorities in the accounts of all taxpayers. Let's get that straight. What we are asking for, and what is being delivered to Belgium internationally, must be necessary and useful for the taxpayer's obligation to declare, and for the correct taxation to be determined. We are asking no more or no less than what is being asked internationally. As long as the Liberals have something to say in this House, it will never be accepted that the withholding tax on shares should be mentioned again on the Belgian tax letter. In other words, the banks are not invited to share this information. That's obvious. There is no difference here with all the other countries. The only thing we are doing is making available to the tax authorities the information that is needed for us, what is taxable in Belgium and what must be verified whether there has been sufficient retention. In my opinion, no normal person in this House can be in favour of sharing all the banking movements with the tax authorities. Besides, I don't think the IRS would want that information. The IRS only wants information that is useful and necessary for him. That is why we are so clear in this proposal. That goes a long way, because that basically means that banking secrecy will in fact lapse as soon as there is any doubt about the accuracy of the declaration. In other words, banking secrecy is going to die, as we pointed out in 2009. Of course, this can only be done on the basis of a presumption that something is not correct. An investigation must therefore have been initiated. That still makes sense to me; the taxpayer also has his rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u19	Mr Van Biesen, what you are saying is difficult to understand. I do not understand why the financial data of taxpayers should only emerge if there is a suspicion of fraud. Then why alone? I honestly assume that most of the Flemings, of the Belgians, are correct and have nothing to hide. There was a call earlier for more computerization. Datamining is the buzzword. That is interesting when you have the data at your disposal and on the basis of movement on the accounts you can see if something is going on. That is what is being done in the context of social fraud, and that is a good thing. In the context of social fraud, the government has all the information on possible fraudsters. We know that. But when it comes to tax fraud, you have to keep your hands off it! Then there has to be a suspicion and only then can the tax authority retrieve the data. Well, I disagree. That is where we differ. For those of you who think it's fair, there's nothing to hide from banking secrecy. This has nothing to do with privacy but everything that has been mentioned repeatedly today, especially transparency. You want to prevent transparency. Why? Because there's something to hide, of course! Otherwise, they wouldn't want to stop it. We have talked on several occasions about fiscal regulation and the amicable settlement. I would like to repeat briefly that we think it would be a good idea to put an end to the tax regulations. In the Netherlands and France it will be reduced. France is not my guide country, but I understand just now that it is your guide country, because what is happening there in the context of transparency is apparently a good thing. My example country was Belgium, until this government got at the helm. As far as taxation is concerned, I am convinced that we must send out the signal that it is no longer possible. Those who could qualify have had plenty of opportunities and now it has to stop. This brings us to the friendly settlement, which we discussed a moment ago. Our own experts formulated a logical and sensible proposal, without being overdone. The experts distinguished between ordinary tax fraud, serious tax fraud and very serious tax fraud. The latter, i.e. the very serious tax fraud, means cases of fraud from several hundred thousand to millions of euros which are fraudulently taken away from us. Those who consciously do so must be denied the privilege of an amicable settlement, i.e. the privilege to buy off. This measure can even work preventively, because those who sin will perhaps think twice if they do not get rid of it with a fine of several hundred thousand euros but actually risk a prison sentence. So it could have a deterrent effect. But the signal that is now being sent is that white-collar crime can be bought off, and I think that is a wrong signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u20	Mr President, I would like to point out that the professionals who intervened, especially the members of the prosecution and the judiciary, stated that the transaction might not be the panacea but that it was something that should not be underestimated. This very often prevented the person from remaining totally unpunished through reasonable time frames, sometimes referred to by those who plead the cause of the fraudster or even prescriptions. As a result, the transaction is recognized by practitioners with effects that are not negligible and that allow the fraudster to be punished. In addition, to be able to deal, you must first have settled your accounts. In addition to this, the penalty for the transaction is added. I don't think we should throw the baby away with the bath water. There is therefore no question of burying the transaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u21	A false argument is used here. If Justice turns out to be a failure, if Justice fails to deal with cases in good time, then we must ensure that Justice is successful. That is the solution that must be sought. For the sake of convenience, one should not use the argument to come up with a regulation, because it does not bring in money, that justice is not regulated within the limitation periods. That seems to me to be the wrong approach. I would prefer to see those who are cheating today and are able to pay off their sentence afterwards think in advance and not fraud, so that tax revenues come in on their own, without the whole ex post procedure. That's the way I'd walk. We must ensure that our judiciary has sufficient expertise so that it can also complete the heavy dossiers in good time. With hands in the air, because it is not possible to conclude the matter in good time, to reach a quick settlement, I think it is the wrong approach. In fact, we then surrender to the fact that the justice system is not able to deal with the issues sufficiently. It would therefore be better to strengthen the judiciary. I come to a penultimate point in relation to the differences between the majority and sp.a in the special committee, namely the Cell of Great Powers. Last week, international research showed that the large capacities are 80 % of those 0.1 % super rich. That's where the problem is. Those are people who are legally very well surrounded. The OECD recommends a targeted approach for the super rich. In response to the recommendations of the OECD, which is not the study club of sp.a., we consider it appropriate that a specialised cell should be set up in our tax administration to deal with the super rich. We have tried to include this in the recommendations, but that proposal was also rejected by the majority. The last point I would like to raise concerns the BBI. I read the recommendations as limiting the possibilities of the BBI. We can discuss whether or not there should be more people. I understood that more capacity was called for. What's capacity? I read in the 2015 Finance Minister's policy letter that there would be 100 extra men. I'm not reading in his policy letter last week that we're talking about 100 more people, but 100 more people to cover the redundancies at the BBI. That is a fundamental difference. I would like to touch on a number of issues in our recommendations on the BBI, such as the Anti-Goon Scheme, which was a serious discussion in committee. I would just like to mention the following recommendation by the majority. "The new law must be based on the principle that the formalities and limitations imposed by the legislator on the powers of investigation must be respected by the tax administration, on the penalty of nullity of the evidence obtained in spite of this." Colleagues, it says "on penalty of nullity." Every formal requirement is now "under penalty of nullity." In the meantime, the anti-golden doctrine, which has become a firm judgment, which is clear to everyone and which is applied only exceptionally, allows the court to make a very clear assessment, in order to accept evidence obtained in breach of certain procedural rules, which is not very important. The Court of Appeal has ruled that on several occasions. However, the current recommendation states that any infringement against a formal requirement leads to nullity. The tax attorneys will be happy to hear that. However, this undermines what the Court of Cassation has allowed in exceptional cases and very well balanced. The Court of Cassation is thus being flagged back here by Parliament, with the result that the BBI will have fewer teeth than it had in the past. The limitation of the right of visitation fits in with the same story. I read the recommendation on this subject: 'The legal basis of certain investigative powers in the tax codes, such as the right of visitation, should be rewritten in order to clarify their scope and the relevant sanction'. What's wrong with visiting rights today? What's wrong with that? Nothing. Every time the BBI goes over the line, there's a court of law. The judicial system has also had to give its opinion on this issue on a regular basis. It's said what can't and what can't. I think this is clear: the right to visit. Only that needs to be rewritten according to the majority. I have, of course, also seen Mr Van Biesen's bill. Mr Deseyn said that CD&V will support that. That simply means a drastic reduction in the possibilities of the BBI. That is what the bill says, and that is what I read in the recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u22	Mr Vanvelthoven, with regard to the Anti-Conflict of Justice, you are ignoring two important words about the conditions of form. It says, in brackets, "in particular, substantial conditions." This immediately implies that not all formal conditions have the same weight. If you read the recommendation in full, you will notice that it refers not only to the need to respect international fundamental rights, but also to the distinction made in the formal conditions between substantive and non-significant formal conditions. That is, for a large part, the confirmation of cassation justice, one might say. We have frequently argued about these two views, but I think you are giving a very selective reading of that recommendation by leaving out those important words in brackets.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u23	I apologise for that, but they are by the way, of course. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u24	It is important that they are in brackets. I agree. If the Court of Cassation has now made such a clear and sound case-law on this matter, why should it be amended? Why does that need to come up with a recommendation now? I see Mr Van Biesen laughing, of course. He knows what it's about. We want to give the tax lawyers more room for manoeuvre in order to say that a full investigation is null and void. That's the idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u25	(...) to give legal certainty to the taxable person.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u26	If the tax administration makes a procedural error here or there, which is not part of the substance of the case, then the taxpayer's rights have been seriously violated and the whole procedure must be declared null and void and the fraudsters will go free. That's the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u27	That is a reading that is absolutely wrong. If you would like to know our intentions on this matter, please read the bill tabled by my group in which we are legally anchoring the Anti-Conflict. I think it is a very bad thing, in principle, that we are dependent on what the judiciary has to say about legal provisions. We believe that there are very sensible options that we have chosen to anchor legally. I repeat, compare it with our bill on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u28	Mr Deseyn, the difference between you and I is that I do have faith in justice and you do not. That's why you think it needs to change. That's the difference. With regard to the BBI, another element, the statute of a judicial police officer for a number of employees of the BBI. That was a recommendation in 2009, was part of the action plan of Minister Van Overtveldt, but is not in the recommendations of the majority. We have asked for this to be included in the recommendations. In 2009 it was included, the Minister included it in his action plan, so it seemed obvious to us that it would be included in the recommendations. It was refused by the majority. Those are things I don't understand. The BBI asks, the Minister has it in his action plan, this Chamber asked in 2009, but this majority doesn't want it anymore today. One can say here that we need to give the BBI more resources. I have given you three examples here where you take the BBI's resources out of your hands instead of giving them more. Another thing the BBI had asked for, the EUR 625 fine that can be imposed today on a taxpayer who refuses to cooperate in a tax investigation. The BBI comes to see a taxpayer, asks to see the books and the taxpayer refuses. The penalty for this is EUR 625. Of course, that's terrifying. The tax administration is asking to change that, asking that a criminal offence be made of it. We are tabling an amendment because we think that the majority has forgotten it, but, no, she has not forgotten it, she does not want it. The maximum penalty for a person who refuses to participate in a tax investigation is EUR 625. Can you believe that now? Is that the approach to tax fraud? The opposite is true. What is not in it is for us the reason why we cannot approve this report, despite the fact that we have approved 95% of the recommendations contained in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u29	Colleagues, thank you for being so numerous for this important moment. A commission of inquiry, a special commission is a useful tool in this parliament, a tool that allows us to complete the analysis of an important issue and to make recommendations to the government. I would like, as my colleagues have done, to commend the work of the journalists who revealed all these mechanisms of fraud and tax evasion, and in particular Daphne Caruana Galizia, the Maltese journalist who was murdered on 16 October because of her work on the Malta Files. She has paid with her life for her work of transparency, a healthy job if we want to change things and recreate tax justice. The European Parliament paid tribute to him yesterday by renamed one of his rooms in his name. Journalists and those who inform them, whistleblowers, play an extraordinary and indispensable role in uncovering these practices of tax incivism, whether it be fraud, clearly illegal, or tax evasion, immoral if not always illegal, but which should become so. What is immoral must become illegal is our conviction as ecologists. And that is not, Mr Van Rompuy, an ideological point of view. This is an absolutely pragmatic point of view. First and foremost, it is a question of assessing the cost to public finances and to all citizens, who correctly assume their tax obligations, of this tax fraud. It is, by definition, difficult to assess, but various academic organizations, quite serious, have been committed to it. I am thinking of the ULB's Dulbéa, which has published a study, which dates back today but which was worth 10 to 20 billion the cost of tax evasion. I am thinking of the Swiss economist Gabriel Zucman, who estimates the cost of fraud at 5 to 6% of GDP. That brings us to 30 billion. There is even an Austrian professor at Linz University, Professor Schneider, who estimates that the black economy accounts for 15.6% of our GDP (70 billion). Let us choose a low range of 20 billion euros, that is 2 000 euros per Belgian citizen per year, 8 000 euros for a family of four. This is twice the cost of finalizing the RSP. This is twice the annual cost of teaching in the French Community. These are huge numbers. In a pragmatic way, after the Offshore Leaks, the LuxLeaks, the SwissLeaks, the Football Leaks, the Panama Papers, the Paradise Papers, we must ensure that as much as possible of this amount that escapes the right tax goes into the state's coffers, so that it emerges as quickly as possible in the form of subsidies to the economy, social assistance and equipment useful to all our citizens, but also to the functioning of the economy. Tax is the basis, the cement of democratic life. Therefore, tax evasion is cancer. Combating fraud by all means, amending the law to make illegal what is immoral is our duty on behalf of all those - citizens, SMEs, independents - who properly carry out their tax duties. Tax fraud, beyond the figures, has major implications. I mentioned the impact on the state budget. I also spoke earlier about the question of tax legitimacy. In my view, citizens who properly assume their responsibilities and realize that others do not do so without being punished may feel that they are victims and no longer want to assume their tax obligations. It is a matter of equality between taxpayers. This afternoon we had a debate about a multinational that creates activity in our country but does not pay taxes, unlike neighbouring SMEs that also create activity and employment, even if it is less spectacular. This has, in any case, an impact on the distribution of wealth. At the global level – and Belgium does not escape it – there is a concentration of wealth in the highest deciles. More and more middle-class people are at risk of falling into poverty and more and more people are not living a dignified life because they lack resources. International tax evasion also has an impact on the countries of the South. This is demonstrated by European studies, and in particular by a committee chaired by the French MEP for Europe Ecology, Eva Joly. Tax fraud is used to plunder the resources of the countries of the South that are in great need of it. To enable these countries to dispose of their natural resources is also to fight effectively against migration phenomena which are not always desired and which pose other problems. Tax evasion mechanisms are used in the context of small or large crime and lead, Minister, I told you last Thursday – when the state itself does not set an example – to a democratic stall. Citizens do not understand this situation. They do not understand the impunity enjoyed by major fraudsters. Together in this Parliament, we have a responsibility, beyond words, to act for more tax justice and efficiency in the fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u30	Mr President, I really didn't mean to come back, but for reasons of linguistic purity... Mr Gilkinet, I know that Flemings and Waalen are not always on the same page, but you speak of Evasion Tax. We call that tax avoidance. I believe that this is a national sport for us, Flemings, Walen, Germans, because since we were occupied by the Romans, we have been considered by some to be a fiscal lemon that had to be squeezed out. However, tax avoidance can be very noble. If I give my kids my real estate before I die, I'll save expenses at the death house. If I give money to the charity, to the Zoo of Antwerp or to the Cancer Fund, then I also do tax avoidance. There are other ways to avoid tax. I'm sure you'll be interested. If I invest in environmentally friendly measures to make my home more environmentally friendly, I will also be rewarded. That is also a form of tax avoidance. So I would like to know whether you are making that distinction? I know that it may be linguistically difficult, tax avoidance and tax evasion. Don't get me wrong, tax evasion is a crime for me, a crime that in some cases can be committed even with burdensome circumstances when it is committed by institutions or individuals who have an exemplary function or who eat from the hand of our government. However, in my opinion, tax avoidance as such, as you say, is not in itself condemnable. Do you think so?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u31	Colleagues, in my view, everyone must contribute according to their means. The tax must be paid where the profit is realized. It seems to me that this calls for mobilization and for all the democrats and this Parliament. This was the case in 2009 during the first committee of inquiry into major tax fraud, which led to particularly ambitious recommendations, which we supported as well as the whole of this Parliament, with the exception of a few. But eight years later, Minister – I can also target your predecessors – it must be noted that less than half of these recommendations have been implemented. This is a truly worrying fact, and it supports the fact that we are not satisfied with the government's action in this area. We must admit that this mobilisation has been found in the work of this committee, given the commitment of our experts, Mr President. Bourgeois and Delanote mentioned earlier, the secretaries of the committee, Mrs Zouliamis and Mr Dang-Duy, some members of the committee who played their part in being present and asking questions, the chairman whom I can also quote (this is a good tone because it is not an easy role in this Parliament) and most of the interlocutors (most of them, because clearly some have not played the game). We have received representatives of the banks and the Big Fours, who have all explained to us that they are fully in accordance with the law, both in spirit and in the letter, which we may doubt when we read files published in the press or studied by this Parliament. This courage, this mobilization and this determination, Minister, we do not find it in the majority leadership: I have cited the example of the number of 2009 recommendations that have not been implemented; that of the flash and transparent passage of Secretary of State Elke Sleurs; our disappointment at the reading of your general policy note with a page and a half on the fight against tax fraud, when you had achieved an interesting beginning to exercise so much that you were more supported by opposition members than by members of the majority; the multiplication of loopholes for those who would be tempted to fraud. The loopholes are the possibility of tax regularization, that of dragging the case if it is dealt with by the court using all the elements of the procedure; the possibility, at the end of the race - that is what we criticize - of concluding an amicable criminal transaction whose price is less than the benefit of the fraud, but for which justice is not in a position of force towards the taxpayer, which answers that if it does not accept the transaction, it will go beyond the reasonable time, with the aim of prescribing. The other symptom is the disruption of the services in charge of the fight against fraud, the disruption organised by the authority, the lack of resources. He was found, once the media interest in the commission's work was somewhat diminished, when we tried to conclude our work. I am not going to go back to this episode at length, which was commented on at the time of the report. Things were not obvious, we do not naturally agree on complicated concepts. There are different views of taxation in this Parliament. But at one point, the committee was deprived of work and the majority tabled a text whose objectives and ambition were greatly diminished, as was its clarity. I can give you examples, but it does not seem useful to me. I would just like to say that this is symptomatic of the unbearable hypocrisy in the fight against tax fraud. Whenever a new revelation appears in the newspapers, as was still the case on Thursday during the current affairs, there is unanimity to denounce, a moral commitment to act. But when it comes to deed, it's "courage, let's run!" These are imperfect laws that have as many loopholes as effective principles, or even more loopholes than effective principles in the fight against fraud. Several arguments are used: "we must wait for European coordination in this area", "as a small open economy, we are not going to be more Catholic than the pope, otherwise we will lose all investors." But what's going on today? Do multinational companies not benefit from too generous tax systems, too generous rules to disinvest Belgium? What's our gain? Who wins in the case? Only the shareholders of these companies! We therefore believe that the results of the policies implemented do not meet the challenges and that much more voluntary action is needed. Mr Van Rompuy, ladies and gentlemen, we have produced a document containing 132 recommendations. It's not nothing but it's not up to the stakes. We have been working on these recommendations up to the last moment, going so far as to table amendments, some of which have been accepted. Our aim was to improve the exchange of information, first at the intra-Belgian level. We realize that the National Bank, the FSMA, does not speak with the tax services when they detect organised fraud mechanisms at a bank, such as Dexia or Optima, which have been cited. On the other hand, the tax authorities do not inform the BNB any more when it makes such discoveries. These two logics must be reconciled, even if each has a specific mission. We wanted to be as creative in anti-fraud mechanisms as those used by fraudsters. Journalists have managed to uncover these mechanisms because they have worked cooperatively, they have been able to contact whistleblowers, sometimes to buy data. More flexibility is needed in the way we fight tax fraud to regain equality of arms and tools to combat this fraud. It is necessary to give sufficient resources to the operators in charge of the fight against fraud. Above all, from the point of view of environmentalists, more transparency is needed. The fraudster's best friend is the darkness. His biggest enemy is transparency. Like the vampire, to paraphrase Commissioner Moscovici, he is afraid of light. I don't always agree with him, but the image he used yesterday seemed interesting to me. We have to get to the level of the reaction of other countries. I am thinking of the United States, which, under the FATCA Treaty, has decided to change things and to be more demanding in the exchange of information about its citizens with accounts abroad. They are also able, when they detect a fraud mechanism, to hit these fraudsters hard. Ladies and gentlemen, I challenge you to cite a recent case in which proven fraud has been subject to a substantial judicial and financial penalty. If we look at all the recommendations that we have reached, we see that we can support some of them frankly, and we can even welcome them. When it's good, you have to say it, and be objective. It is because we support part of these recommendations that we will not vote against this report, despite all the grievances I have raised on behalf of the Ecolo-Groen Group. There is a desire to better organize the dialogue between the National Bank and the FSMA and between the ISI and all tax services on the one hand. This obligation to report to CTIF is also noted when a fraud mechanism is being prepared, and not only when this fraud has been proven. There is also a strengthening of the obligations of compliance officers in banks, these responsible for bank compliance. Half a step is taken in banning commercial relations with tax havens. The idea is to ban these trade relations in the absence of economic reality. We would have wanted to add the lack of knowledge and identification of the final economic beneficiary, but that is a half-step. You, Minister, have left to update the list of tax havens, because this provision, without an updated list, is of no use. There is a desire to protect whistleblowers, those who denounce this tax incivism. There is an obligation to report suspicion on the part of all tax intermediaries. There is a commitment to improve the functioning of the central banking contact point at the level of the National Bank, on the French model Ficoba, the bank account file, which has proven its effectiveness in many cases, including those involving Belgium. There is a desire for a double taxation convention with developing countries, in an approach that takes into account their real capacity to fulfil their administrative obligations. We have tabled a bill on an essential subject, and I assume that, after the vote on these recommendations, we will be able to put it on the agenda of the Finance Committee very quickly. I want to talk about the future reporting obligation for multinationals, country by country, and to report the profits made, taxes paid, jobs created and subsidies received in each country. This will allow citizens to have a better view of the situation, and tax services to better collect taxes and fight transfer prices that would not be in line with the market. There is an extension of the statute of limitations to ten years if there is a legal construction in a tax haven. There are sanctions envisaged against banks that would participate in tax evasion mechanisms, until the withdrawal of the bank licence, which is undoubtedly the nuclear weapon, which I hope will never be used and which will be an indicator of what they cannot do with impunity. There is the banking oath dear to my colleague, Meyrem Almaci, which was already included in the conclusions of the Optima Committee and which is recalled here. There is the establishment of a tax investigating judge, a great victory, but I would remind the majority that this was already mentioned, Mr Van Rompuy, in the recommendations of the 2009 Committee of Inquiry and that this has not been implemented. Earlier, you questioned my group leader, Kristof Calvo, by reproaching him for not reading the text, but you, since 2009, have not been as attentive to these issues as I am - sometimes by tiring you as chairman of the Finance Committee - or to the fulfilment of the commitments made by this Parliament to ensure that, at the level of justice, one is able to fight financial crime, which is far from the case. There are recommendations that can only be supported, such as the computerisation of justice or the involvement of the Finance Committee in future work on the negotiation of the non-double taxation agreement. Let's start with the Andorra issue, which has been on the news this week. It is for the positive aspects that, as I said, we will not oppose the vote on this text and, on the contrary, we will ask you very quickly for an account of the commitments that you are going to vote on. Then there are all the negative aspects, all that, by the will of the majority or by its lack of will to combat tax fraud, is for us problematic, whether they are problematic elements in the report or elements that are not included in it. The way in which Antigone case law is being transposed into law is not satisfactory at all. The set of criteria you have added together will make it even more difficult than today to use evidence obtained, for example, through whistleblowers to prosecute tax fraudsters. The challenge was obviously to upgrade, as other countries have done, by providing for the possibility of buying data from whistleblowers. This is the case in Germany. This is the case experimentally in France. We tie our feet and hands to prevent us from using this evidence. I always have in mind this KB Lux case where fraud was proven, where many depositors admitted their fraud and paid dearly and uglyly the fines imposed on them, while others were as far as the shopkeepers and won in cassation, not on the merits but on this question of the validity of the evidence. This is, for example, the need to assess the impact of anti-fraud measures on the economy. I apologize, but anti-fraud measures are anti-fraud measures which aim to combat fraud because it is incivious and expensive. If we stop fighting fraud because we believe it has an economic impact, I think we do not put priorities in the right place. This is the kind of provision that could justify not finally doing anything about this report. This is the complexity of the criteria for defining what a tax haven is. I have the impression, when I read the criteria in the text, that we will never again consider a country to be a tax haven. This is the non-applicability of the Definitively Taxed Income (GTR) rules. This is the lack of resources for the control of transfer prices and for the tax haven cell. It was the failure to consider prohibiting the possibility of amicable criminal transactions in serious tax fraud, which was cited at other times in this forum. I think it is a new loophole that creates impunity and a form of class justice for those who have the means. This is the refusal to give tax officers the status of judicial police officers, even though this was included in the 2009 Commission's recommendations. This is the absence of a clear commitment to the means given to the Brussels Court of Appeal. Today, the Brussels Court of Appeal has exclusive jurisdiction over financial matters and has an average trial time of 880 days, which in most cases leads to impunity because of exceeding the reasonable time limit or the statute of limitations. If it doesn't hurt your stomach, Mr Van Rompuy, I am angry as a citizen, as a representative of the citizens. It is just incomprehensible to see cases that are not tried simply because we do not give sufficient means to the justice system and because the congestion of the Brussels Court of Appeal is known to lawyers who have only one objective, that of saving time and procedure and who say: "At the moment when we are appealing to Brussels, whatever the seriousness of the case, we are saved. We'll be all right." Until when will you accept this well-known logic in the halls of the courthouse? For our part, we do not accept it. Finally, it is the question of legal means – I have quoted them – and human means. We can develop infinite theories on the computerization of the FPS Finances, on the fact that we can be much more effective at much less, on the fact that we will fight fraud with data mining, by identifying on the basis of some criteria that have deceived or not. All tax offices are aware of the criteria used. They know where they must be blameless and where there are margins. There is a lack of resources in essential tax services. To go back to a case that has not been mentioned, the Tax Paradis unit of the FPS Finances is composed of four people. In response to parliamentary questions, you told us, minister, and your services communicated it to the press, that there were more than 220 billion exchanges with tax havens over a year. Was all of that 220 billion used to pay for services to dig canals in Panama? Let me have some doubts. This requires a check on the economic reality which justifies these exchanges and, where appropriate, further investigations at this level. So we cannot consider anything other than a form of hypocrisy on the part of the majority in the fight against tax fraud, and we are asking only one thing: to be misunderstood, Mr Van Rompuy. It is time to put an end to this hypocrisy, which is to make us believe that we are fighting fraud, without really giving ourselves the means, or even dismembering the tax, police or judicial services responsible for tracking and punishing fraudsters. I don't know if you have seen like me the ras-le-bol of the citizens in the face of this tax incivism. It is as tangible as it is legitimate. Our response must be at the height of this indignation. I said earlier: opacity is the best asset of fraudsters. To shed light on these practices, to ensure transparency of financial income, to ensure that all income contributes precisely to the collective needs, must be more than ever the objective of this Parliament. This is in any case the goal of environmentalists. For us, the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion is a priority. Sorry, Mr. Van Rompuy. We have more, but this one is important. We want to make – and I want to make, in conclusion of my speech – a proposal to this Parliament. Parliament has the opportunity, in the face of important issues, to set up standing committees. We have done so, beyond recurring issues such as finance or social affairs, for some important topics such as climate and sustainable development. We believe it is urgent, important and useful to set up a committee dedicated to combating tax fraud. Mr Van Rompuy, I do not want to deprive you of some of your skills, do not get upset! We could, within the Commission, analyse the follow-up to these recommendations, verify that they are being implemented, as well as question the Minister of Finance, or the Minister of Justice (who is not present), on these new issues, which are emerging far too frequently, and demand accounts on behalf of citizens, especially when the state is not exemplary, which is obviously unacceptable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u32	Mr President, I will try to be synthetic, since time is up; it is 9:30 p.m. We have already done a great deal of work in this debate, which will require many further developments. I think it's time to think about other topics waiting for us at the end of the evening. I will therefore not dwell on what I have had the opportunity to say in the introduction when the report is presented. I would like to recall the emotion aroused by the revelation of the Panama Papers scandal; to pay tribute to the journalists who have worked with transparency; to stress the Commission's initial ambitions and the willingness to take up the problem with arms. I have also, and I repeat, welcomed some of the positive developments and measures contained in this report. I would now like to briefly elaborate on the elements for which I consider that the account is not there and that we have missed here a historic opportunity to meet the expectations of all those who have claimed their outrage at the revelation of the Panama Papers scandal. The main aspects on which I see a real line of demarcation between the majority and the opposition – since it is indeed this cleavage that we must talk about – are the following. First of all, I repeat, this is the question of means. Mr. Van Rompuy explained earlier, and he was not wrong, that recommendation 96 contains a development aimed at identifying the staffing needs of Justice. Objectively, it is formulated in extremely cautious terms, but at least it is a question of detecting needs and adjusting accordingly the number of judges. All right! On this part, there is content. However, in our discussions in committee, all the amendments which, in the same spirit, sought to increase the resources available to other actors in the fight against tax fraud were rejected. That's true for the ISI, since you refused to take into account her boss's request, whereas she was objectively not unreasonable. He does not speak of extraordinary means to be given to him, but only of a reinforcement to be given to him. This is also true of OECDFO and the Transfer Pricing Unit. Honestly, since the beginning of our discussions, I have been wondering why the majority has come to terms with their refusal to consider additional resources. It would have been possible to find cautious formulations, for example by invoking new means to be phased in, while specifying that they must meet proven needs and freeing up budgets as they progress. This caution would not have put the majority in trouble vis-à-vis the government, but it did not even find thanks to you. So what is the explanation for this somewhat obstinate refusal of the majority to any prospect of increasing human resources? I asked myself the question, after which I got an embryo of answer by listening to Mr. Scourneau earlier. The latter put forward an argument which, I admit, I had not thought of. It's the potato one. Mr Scourneau thus drew an analogy with agriculture: in the past, to grow the potato, we needed arms; now we have tractors and we need fewer arms. Of which act! Having said that, I would just like to point out this. Of course, automation and digitization can alleviate certain tasks, such as FPS Finance. But in this matter, it is not arms that we need, but expertise, brains. The challenge of the Finance FPS at all levels is to deal with particularly sophisticated, specialized law firms. It is in order to solve these difficulties that they need human reinforcement, intellectual reinforcement, reinforcement of expertise. I don't understand that you can't understand it. One might think that this is a way to protect the Minister of Budget and, above all, to avoid the need for additional resources. I honestly think that's a bad calculation. The mechanical application of means reduction measures, particularly in strategic functions, is a short-sighted calculation that has its limits. The majority would have been honoured by considering that, on a number of missions, savings are not possible and that it is even necessary to strengthen, for example, the function of levying taxes and the function of rendering justice, which are truly at the heart of the sovereign missions. These are missions that I believe would require additional resources. We would have liked to have been able to help you, Mr. Minister of Finance, to obtain these resources, but this proved impossible due to a short-term calculation. Finally, behind this position, there may also be an ideological choice. We were talking earlier about doing better with less. This is ultimately the option of a weakened state. Is that what is played here through our debates? Which state do we want? As far as I am concerned, I am not in favour of a State that would be strengthened at all costs, which would be part of the ever-increasing number of States. But the tasks of taxation, justice and security are essential. In its conclusions, the Committee on Terrorism drew attention to the need to strengthen resources. No one challenged it. It was obvious. Would it have been possible to imagine that, in its report, the Committee on Terrorism was recommending that we should not touch too much on the means and do with those available? It was unthinkable! In the face of the challenge of tax fraud, we cannot stand by and say that we are going to do with the means on the edge, that we are going to do with what we have. In my view, we should have strengthened the means, affirmed a will. This has not been done because, implicitly, there is the choice of a rather weak State. There's even worse! There's still another explanation. Earlier, the N-VA said that, in the end, tax evasion was a national sport, as if one could be proud of it. I remember the formula used by Bart De Wever who is obviously not present, but who said out loud what the majority think outright. According to him, tax evasion is not a shame, but a citizen duty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u33	... misunderstood.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u34	Misunderstood? Yes, yes, as often! I think it was the bottom of his mind. I admit he has a certain frankness, he says things the way he thinks. In this case, he said out loud what some in the majority think outright. There may be a form of clientelism in relation to certain categories that one wants to spare because they could be among the supporters of a particular political fraction. I find it insufficient, it is unsatisfactory and it is not up to the challenges. The second point I would like to make is that the account is not concerned with the European aspect of the problem. We agree that we cannot solve all the problems at the national level and that we must also invest in the international approach. But it must be noted that he is often a false-liker. On the basis of amendments tabled in committee, the majority felt that we could not adopt our proposals when they dealt with subjects that are under discussion at European level. I am thinking in particular of the common consolidated corporate tax base. This is a reflection that would effectively put an end to the transfer of profits within the European Union. We wanted to include this proposal in the recommendations, but it was not accepted. The same applies to the proposal drawn up by the European Commission to require intermediaries to declare their arrangements in such a way as to give Member States the opportunity to see which loopholes in their tax systems are being exploited by intermediaries in order to reduce their revenue. This is still a proposal which comes from Europe and which we wanted to reflect in our recommendations, but it has been very chilly. On these issues, you don't want to be at the cutting edge. You are lagging behind at the European level. There is no voluntarism. Commissioner Moscovici said this himself when he considered that the government was not an ally, not an engine, but a brake on it. Objectively, it is a bit deplorable to have to see that for this fight, which goes beyond national borders, we are not at the forefront, we are rather lagging behind. We drag our feet and it's not the image I make of the fight that should be ours. The report goes even further as there are comments that the administrative burdens generated by certain innovations or initiatives of the European Commission should be assessed. For example, BEPS measures will have to be assessed in terms of administrative burdens. If we're here, we're really moving backwards. The third thing I find the account not to be there is that in many respects we are at a loss from what the Minister of Finance's action plan planned for 2015. I got it here. When Mr. Van Biesen said earlier that he was proud of Parliament's strong commitment and for so long in the fight against tax fraud, I was thinking of these measures that were included in the minister's action plan and that we have not had the courage to take up our own recommendations. How can we be proud when measures envisaged by the minister are not even supported by a Panama Papers commission? Three measures are concerned: the Antigone case law first. It raises debate, it must be acknowledged, but the minister had made some progress. It is said that, in its judgment of 22 May 2015, the Court of Cassation applied the Antigone doctrine to tax cases. I quote: "This doctrine allows the authorities to use evidence obtained illegally under certain conditions. The Antigone doctrine has already been anchored in the law in criminal matters, since the Court of Cassation explicitly applies this doctrine to purely fiscal cases. It is also appropriate to put in place a legal framework in this area." We'd like to support you, Mr. Minister of Finance. It's a climax: we can't even be as ambitious as you! Without wanting to be derogatory, you did not have the reputation of being at the forefront of the fight against tax fraud. On this point, we do less well than you do. Secondly, your action plan proposed introducing a new criminal offence in the event of an obstacle to tax supervision. This was neither accepted nor included in the committee's report. On the other hand, you were willing on a third point: the granting of the status of judicial police officer to certain officials of the ISI. It was already present in your action plan in 2015 as well as in the one in 2009, but it is no longer included in the recommendations of the Panama Papers commission in 2017. So there's a step backwards. It is disappointing to make such a point when we know that we have worked in a parliamentary committee for 18 months. We are below certain ministerial ambitions. Worse, but I am not going to iron out, the majority even wanted to maintain a recommendation when the experts showed that it was already introduced into the legal texts. This is at least one recommendation that is being implemented as it had been implemented even before it was developed. If we're there, I think the pride of which Mr. Van Biesen said it must be really relativized. I am not going to dwell on the dissatisfaction that we cannot help feeling, but on another aspect, the notion of tax haven. We're at the heart of the matter. There was an opportunity to discuss an amendment tabled by Mr Vanvelthoven to ensure that the actual level of taxation is taken into account in the definition of tax haven. There, we were again rather in favour of a minimalist approach. "We're not going to expand the spectre of tax havens. Let's be minimalistic!"This is the course of action of the majority on many points. I regret it again. Finally, the last example among many others, but I do not want to be long, as I said, there is also an amendment which has been rejected by the majority and which, since the report also refers to the need to give a more active role to the supervisory authority, simply proposed circulating the clues which are collected by the supervisor, when it comes to fraud mechanisms put in place by financial institutions, to the ISI in particular to ensure that information flows, is shared and that there is transparency. This was also not accepted by the majority. These are some elements which lead me to consider, on behalf of the cdH group, that the account is not there, that we could have done better and that we should have gone further. This was not possible because, obviously, the majority wanted to show that it was the majority. Great good good good good good good good good good good good At one point, in the debates, it was felt that things were a little on hold, floating. It was later discovered that this period of floating, the majority had used it to try to lock things up and then return to committee with a text to take or leave. That's not what we were told, of course. We were told, "No, we're going to be able to improve it, make your thoughts." Then we saw that all or almost all of the amendments were rejected one after the other. Again, this dual language was given: "Of course, we're working together. We're looking for consensus." But in practice, that was not the case, no. There is a limit beyond which the majority did not want to go. That was the limit of his majority agreement, quite simply. That's all for it! Honestly, I think it will have to be considered twice before setting up a new special committee on the subject. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we have no illusions. Scandals, there'll be more. Since the adoption of the report in committee, there have been Paradise Papers. The weeks and months that come will certainly reveal their share of new scandals. The press, and we must congratulate it, has clearly taken the lead in playing the map of total transparency and devoting the necessary resources to it. What are we going to do about these new scandals? I don't believe in a new special commission. Here we reach the limits of the model. We can see that when we find ourselves in a balance of forces, a majority against opposition, it is difficult to transcend the divisions and to project ourselves in the next legislature to draw a course of action. We can't do it anymore. Should we wait for the Minister of Finance's annual report on the implementation of the recommendations? That would not be very satisfactory. On the contrary, what is expected of each other is vigilance at all times. At all levels, all actors, despite discouragement, dissatisfaction and frustration, must feel mobilized, mandated so that the Belgian State, in all its components, can live up to this democratic challenge. Finally, behind the technicality of the arguments, it is a question of democratic issues. Tax fairness and the tax contribution to the functioning of the state are issues that lie at the heart of democracy. I really hope that all actors, despite everything, will continue to feel invested in a mission of general interest. Thank you for your good attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u35	Colleagues, who is shaking big tax fraud today? Not the tax, it has no means and, as the investigating judge Paul Dhaeyer notes, it almost no longer makes any denunciations to the prosecutor's office. Not the financial police: the government dismantled OECDFO, a tool that had proven itself against financial crime; that is perhaps why it was dismantled. Not Justice: its means to combat serious financial crime are even thinner than those of the tax administration. Investigative judge Michel Claise said a few days ago: "Our means of combating tax evasion are being dismantled". Who fights against big tax fraudsters? Not the federal government; it makes fraudsters smile! When it appears that 60% of SwissLeaks' Belgian files concern diamond dealers, the government creates a Carat tax cut as finely on their claims as it does in the Antwerp workshops. Who shakes big tax fraudsters? Not the OECD, which communicates a great deal about tax havens, but itself undermines its valuable definition of tax havens. Not the European Union, which is advancing at the speed of the snail and can count on a number of recalcitrant states to slow down the speed even further: Malta, Luxembourg, Ireland, Belgium... No, no, no official body shakes the rich clients of international tax evasion. The ones they fear are the whistleblowers and the journalists through the leaks, the leaks repeatedly. There were UBS, OffshoreLeaks, LuxLeaks, SwissLeaks, Football-Leaks, Panama Papers, Bahamas Leaks, Malta Files, and now Paradise Papers. Since 2015, we have reached a cruising speed of two leaks a year, and this speed should not be reduced. It is also one of these leaks that gave the impetus to the Panama Papers special commission of inquiry that we are currently discussing. A few opposition colleagues and I have asked that the commission hand over its work on the trade in the light of Paradise Papers, but the right-wing majority refused. I understand it! She had already demonstrated enough of her sabotaging ability not to have to demonstrate it again with the Paradise Papers. It seems to me that Mr Scourneau summed up the work of the right-wing majority in the Panama Papers Committee. She said earlier: she kept the bath water and threw the baby away! Let's go back to this sabotage or torpedoing for a few moments. The work of the Committee will have lasted a year and a half. The hearings themselves took place from May 2015 to January 2017. During these meetings, the commissioners of the right-wing majority expressed a lack of interest when they did not openly denigrate certain journalists, investigators or magistrates who had been interviewed. At the beginning of March 2017, after a high-quality work, the experts produced a report containing a number of findings and recommendations useful to close a series of open doors on gaps in legislation and the organisation of the fight against fraud. Personally, I found it possible and necessary to go even further and be more ambitious. Yet, for the right-wing majority, these proposals went far too far! It's not that they didn't go far enough, but far too far! As a result, the majority commissioners stuck the work of the commission. It was rendered inactive for several months, but during that time they were not inactive: they privatized the commission to carry out a real coup d'état. Parliament has been put on the sidelines and debates on the report have been pursued in an occult manner by the majority parties alone. By whom exactly, on whose advice? Impossible to say because of the short-circuiting of democracy. We can imagine that the N-VA was at the manoeuvring, probably not alone, but we can imagine that it was there. At the end of this hijacking, the majority committed their coup d'état: it threw the text of the experts and imposed as a basis for discussion and amendments the text drawn up during this occult work. Of course, any somewhat ambitious provision against major international fraud has disappeared from the new text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u36	Mr President, if I am not mistaken, it does not seem to me that the committee has worked occultly. I think we even invited Mr. Van Hees to our work; I do not think we have tried to avoid it in our debates. We recalled earlier that the majority amendment, which concerned the 132 recommendations, had been pre-trialized and that at one point the majority amendment had been pre-trialized. All this was done in a legible manner, as explained earlier. For months, we have tried – and I thank the President who really invested himself – to reach a consensus. And when we realized that consensus was difficult, we wanted, as a majority and as opposed, to try to make the text as readable as possible for each group. We tried to move more binaryly, let's say, but it didn't work. Everyone expressed their sensitivity, but nothing was done occultly. Mr. Van Hees was invited to every meeting of the committee; therefore, I find it to be forcing the nuance to speak of obscurantism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u37	Mr Scourneau, we are not talking about the same thing. I was indeed invited to the official meetings or even to the working meetings of the committee, and I was present there. In fact, members of the majority often shone by their absence. As a result, the quorum was not reached at certain times. I am talking about these successive months, before and after the great holidays, during which the meetings did not take place but, obviously, the members of the majority discussed with each other. Perhaps you weren't invited, Mr. Scourneau? In this case, claim from the N-VA. The majority then came with a "key on door" text, which replaced the experts' text. Do you remember that? The majority imposed an alternative text that was the result of its own occult debates. I'm talking about these occult debates. The arguments on the right are interesting to analyze. I come back to the three main categories. The first argument is that action at European level must be taken above all. It is not so much at Belgian level that progress can be observed. The problem is that at European level, the Finance Minister, as I said, is not an accelerator but rather a brake. I'm not even talking about the Tobin tax, but about the CFC rules and hybrid structures, etc. We know that Minister Van Overtveld is a specialist in blocking everything that could go in a somewhat ambitious direction against tax evasion and evasion. A second argument on the right is the absolute guarantee of privacy. The fact that an ordinary taxpayer has all of his personal and income data on Tax-on-web is no problem. For an ordinary employee, everything is known. No problem! Controlling the electricity meters of a social beneficiary is not a problem either! He has to get naked. There is also no problem in requiring an asylum seeker to give his gsm, his smartphone to check his private conversations. We discussed it last week. But as soon as one touches the wealthiest heritage, there, one directly invokes respect for privacy. However, since Professor Max Frank's work and more recently Gabriel Zucman's work, we know that the richest 1% and, more importantly, the richest 0.01% concentrate most of the fiscal damage caused by tax evasion. The third argument put forward by the right, and we have heard it again today, is the need to take account of international competition. What is crazy is that, in the same way as it obliges workers to moderate or even reduce their wages in the name of competitiveness, it believes that multinationals and large fortunes should be allowed to escape tax - on the same principle - or else our competitive position would be jeopardized. As a result, workers are doubly losing: they have to moderate their wages and pay taxes, while capital can exploit them at its own discretion while not paying any contribution towards that profit. The direction is therefore clear: the fight against fraud stops at the door of business and investor interests. On the basis of such an assumption, it is difficult to produce anything other than a deliberately wet firecracker. It is because this government is that of the rich that it is also that of the rich fraudsters. We heard Mr Van de Velde ask that we not play Robin Hood. Indeed, we can trust the government to play the reverse Robin Hood by stealing from the poor to give to the rich. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you a rather resounding example in the social history of recent years, reminding you of the case of Caterpillar. In this case, one could see that a company that had received all the tax aid – coordination centres, notional interests, professional discount, etc. – then put the key under the doormat. I will also give you some examples of recommendations that the right has rejected; only a few examples, because we are not going to spend the night, even if we have time. I am thinking first of cash payments. The original text simply called for maintaining the status quo, a completely revolutionary claim! The aim was to maintain the ceiling of EUR 3,000. But even such a recommendation was too much for this right-wing majority, who preferred to throw it away. As regards the transposition of EU standards and the FATF, the original text stated that it was necessary to ensure that Belgian law exceeded those standards. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They must be transposed in a timely and accurate manner! That's how you turn an ambition into something totally flat! For whistleblowers, there was a recommendation to build on what Germany has done, to buy back data that has made it possible to build a very effective database. No, let's not apply what works abroad! Things rarely work. It was unfortunate to operate in Germany, so it had to be removed! The Cayman tax is the smokescreen that this government systematically uses to hide the fact that it does nothing against tax evasion. Every time we have to justify ourselves, we take out the Cayman tax! Of course, it would hurt to give its real performance. The government arranged for this performance not to come out of tax revenues and when the commission recommended that this performance be put on a separate code in the declaration, the majority threw that transparency on the transparency tax in the trash! For the transfer pricing unit, the original text asked for more resources. The text chosen speaks of "ensuring the efficiency of the transfer pricing unit". It would be difficult to recommend that the transfer pricing cell be inefficient! It's still a recommendation that doesn't say anything! On transfer pricing, I recall that during the Caterpillar drama, the Prime Minister promised to commission a study on Caterpillar's transfer pricing manipulations. When I asked him what the results of this study were, he replied that the study had been commissioned but that the lawyers, the legal department, felt that it could not be disseminated. Ordering a report in order not to communicate it to anyone is indeed a very interesting way to combat transfer pricing manipulations. As for human resources in general, the majority categorically refuses to grant more resources to the tax authorities, the judiciary and other bodies. As I said earlier, the chapter on tax regularisations was completely thrown into the trash, including the question of how money laundering would be treated without payment for regularization. As colleagues pointed out, the aim of the Antigone doctrine was that a serious case of tax evasion could not be lost in court for minor procedural errors. There must be a proportion between the two. By refusing this approach, the right rejected one of the few things I found positive in the Minister of Finance's plan. It is not every day, minister, that I can read one of your texts and highlight something positive. I quote your anti-fraud action plan of December 2015: "Antigone doctrine has already been anchored in the law in criminal matters, since the Court of Cassation explicitly applies this doctrine to purely fiscal cases. It is appropriate to put in place a legal framework in this area as well." Do you recognize your text, minister? You're the one who wrote this. If you have written it, how is it that the Members of the Panama Papers Committee, including those of the N-VA - perhaps those of the N-VA in mind - have adopted exactly the opposite? It's a mystery, Minister. You don't agree with each other. What's going on? We have to hold them, minister. Or you changed your mind. You'll explain it to us later. I'm going to bank secrecy. The Belgian tax authorities automatically receive information from foreign banks, but not from Belgian banks. That is the surreal situation in which we are today. Of course, the right-wing majority refuses to question this bank secrecy. You also rejected the recommendation to create a special cell for big fortunes. However, the creation of such a unit was also advocated by the OECD, which, like Gabriel Zucman, believes that there is a high concentration of fraud in this category. I thus come to a particular case in these recommendations, in this catalog La Redoute rather insipid. I want to talk about something that has nothing to do with tax fraud, it's a request from diamond dealers. They're complaining. Indeed, given their unfortunately deserved sulphurous reputation, it is difficult for them to find a bank in Belgium where to open an account. What does this have to do with tax evasion? I'm still looking. If you have an explanation, I'm interested. In any case, this is the subject of one of the recommendations that the majority inserted after the coup d'état. She came, all of a sudden with that. First of all, we didn't get it very well. Then we asked for explanations and realized that that was what it was all about. Mr Van de Velde said that when the Belgian diamond sector was attacked, it was attacked. He could have added, on the basis of this recommendation, on the basis of the Carat tax, on the basis of the extended criminal transaction, that when a gift was given to the diamond sector, he was also given one. There is also what I will call the "mystery recommendation" of the PTB. Indeed, I had a recommendation included in the text before the coup d'état on the right. And, to my surprise, when they came with their new milling, my recommendation was still there. In my view, they did not grasp the actual scope of this recommendation. You can search for it in the text, if it amuses you. This recommendation uses another wording which was in other recommendations, but which you categorically rejected. I therefore do not understand how this recommendation has passed. A moment of inattention, no doubt!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u38	What was that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u39	I will not say; I will let you seek. I will conclude with the PTB's five axes on fraud. Indeed, I think that beyond your catalog La Redoute insipide, it is also good to concentrate the essential points of action. First axis: to organise transparency, starting with Belgium. Banking secrecy, one of the major obstacles to the fight against major tax fraud, still exists in Belgium, even if a complicated procedure exists to lift it. In order to effectively combat large-scale fraud, the PTB believes that it needs to be completely lifted and banks automatically provide the tax data, including year-end balances of all bank and securities accounts. This would, in the meantime, address the issue of the security account tax. The aim is to create, within the tax administration, a cadastre covering both the assets - furniture and real estate - of natural persons. It is, in fact, discriminatory to have a real estate cadastre for ordinary citizens and not to have a cadastre of movable assets which mainly concerns the most wealthy. Second axis: to target the strong spots of great international fraud. These strong positions are the beneficiaries of fraud, multinationals, ultra-rich, the richest 0.01%, intermediaries, establishments, Big Fours and other specialized firms. Applying Gabriel Zucman's figures to Belgium - which, according to him, is quite possible - it can be inferred that the richest 0.01% elude on average EUR 5.3 million per year. On the other hand, the poorest 50 per cent of the population eludes an average of EUR 201 per year. The ratio is 1 to 26,000, which, therefore, means that on the richest side, fraud is 26,000 times greater. That is the reality of this country. As I said, we need to create a specialized cell focused on the richest 0.01%. This is a recommendation of the OECD. There is also a need to stop encouraging fraud by allowing white-collar criminals to escape the courts through amnesties and other criminal transactions. As far as banks are concerned, it is important to ensure the presence of resident auditors in banking institutions. They would have free access to all data and meetings, and would be responsible for clearing up any breaches by these institutions, both with regard to financial crime and with regard to legislation specific to the banking sector. The Belgian and international banking history has unfortunately shown that self-control is largely insufficient to prevent the drifts of institutions driven by the pursuit of profit. As envisaged by a magistrate heard during the work of our Panama Papers commission, it is also possible, legally speaking, to practice mystery shopping, to send false customers to Belgian banking institutions in order to check whether they do not return their wealthy customers to their subsidiaries located in tax havens. The third axis is to declare war on tax havens. However, it is incredible that 28 tax havens are listed in Paradise Papers, while only four or nine are listed in Belgian tax havens, since there are two divergent lists in Belgian legislation. In any case, four or nine is not much compared to 28 tax havens. There are questions about this. If we really want to counter the harmful role of offshore squares, we need to adopt truly dissuasive measures and actually combat these tax havens. Gabriel Zucman, who I quote again, goes so far as to mention the exclusion of a European Union country such as Luxembourg if it did not fall into the category concerning its obligation of fiscal solidarity with the other Member States. We could apply the same principle to Malta, or even to Belgium, who knows? The fourth axis would be to provide sufficient resources for those who fight fraud. The topic has already been sufficiently addressed. I conclude with the fifth and final axis: combating the legalization of fraud. This is an important problem, and it is a specificity of Paradise Papers compared to Panama Papers. There are many cases on the border of legality, unlike Panama Papers, where we were more frankly in pure and harsh illegality. The trend towards the legalisation of fraud is very serious at international level and, unfortunately, also in Belgium; this is very damaging. Ruling, for example, is a mechanism for legalizing fraud: 95% of decisions are favourable to all tax packages submitted. For those who escape tax, it obviously makes a big difference whether it is legal or not. It is about his future and whether or not he finds himself in prison - a very rare issue for tax fraudsters in Belgium. For the citizen who has to bear an increasingly heavy tax burden, it does not change whether these multinationals, these great fortunes escape tax in a legal or illegal way, or via illegalities that become legal overnight. In short, ladies and gentlemen, judging the committee's recommendations in the light of the issues at stake, the mountain gave birth to a mouse. This mouse, the right one cut off his legs and tied his teeth. To denounce this masquerade and the systematic refusal of the right to fight tax fraud, we will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u40	Mr President, very briefly in relation to a sitting in which the debate was given and the arguments were given on both sides, I would first like, like other speakers, to welcome the quality of the committee's work. Of course, there were differences in the conclusions, but I believe there were no differences in the desire for an in-depth analysis of the phenomenon of large-scale tax evasion and tax evasion. As the French Minister of Economy and Finance, Bruno Le Maire, said quite rightly, "tax evasion is an attack on democracy". It is an attack on the ability of States and public authorities to enforce the law by all, starting with those who have, no doubt, the greatest ability to avoid it because, in particular, their financial resources are considerable in order to escape the authority of the State. It is the very denial of the foundation of our democracy, the preservation of the rule of law, which is threatened by fraud and tax evasion. I would like to highlight a few aspects that are of particular interest to my party, although I could agree with many of the arguments that have finally been made with regard to the essential objective that is the capacity of the State and Justice departments to combat this kind of scandalous phenomenon. There, it is true that this implies a different scope of resources than what has so far been given to the services of Justice and the tax administration in particular. First of all, I will focus on the status of whistleblowers. In the same way that the sources of journalists have been protected, an essential measure for access to information and respect for the right to investigation, there must be a willingness to develop a genuine protection status for whistleblowers because without their work aimed at safeguarding the public interest, public administrations and public authorities could not mobilize in order to preserve the correct application of the law, equally and at the expense of all taxpayers, regardless of their capacity. In this regard, some interesting recommendations are contained in the report. It will be necessary to see how they will be legally translated, but there must be broad, unambiguous and unreserved protection for whistleblowers. And I agree with those who refer to the German example of the possibility of buying back data. The tax authorities must be given the ability to acquire essential data without any scruples as to their origin. The second aspect of our attention is the status and responsibility of tax advisers and intermediaries. Large tax evasion cannot be organized without the advice of those who, having some ability to understand the tax system, can usefully advise those who seek to deliberately fraud. It is time to make it clear that those who assist in the organisation of fraud, regardless of their professional status, must be considered as co-authors and accomplices in the event of an offence of tax evasion and also be prosecuted as such. I welcome Recommendation 78, which aims to prevent banks from providing services to facilitate fraud or tax evasion under penalty. Here, too, we will pay attention to how this recommendation will be translated into legislation, as sanctions must be commensurate with the damage caused by tax evasion. We agree, but with reservation, with the desire to extend the statute of limitations in the event of international tax evasion and the placement of funds in tax havens. The extension of time limits in cases of serious tax fraud to at least 10 years is in principle an excellent initiative. We had already mentioned it many times. However, when we look at Recommendation No 69, it seems to us that the situation which is used to consider extending this period before limitation is insufficient or that the conditions are too restrictive. I quote: "This extension of time is only envisaged when legal constructions are used in tax havens to camouflage the origin and/or existence of the heritage." In other words, in the event that international tax fraud is found, the limitation or taxation period can only be extended if the funds or assets are placed in tax havens. This condition seems too restrictive: the time limit should be extended in all cases of aggravated tax evasion. We know that there is still controversy about the definition of "tax havens" and that the government has not been able to resolve it. Our legislation is particularly laconic and unsatisfactory in this regard. The government has always fallen behind the desire to wait for the European Commission to submit a proposal for a definition that would be accepted by the Member States. However, we know that this wish is not shared by the majority of them. Consequently, the Commission's work will not be easy or even completely unproductive. That is no reason why our state and our government should not make any more clear progress in developing a definition of the concept of "tax havens" in our legislation. As far as bank secrecy is concerned, it is a crucial part of the fight against tax fraud and financial crime. The current regime provides that the administration may request bank information from a financial institution, but only if it is aware of indications of tax evasion or when it establishes index taxation. However, authorisation is required. In addition, the officer must send a request for information to the taxpayer in advance. In other words, if the account holder is unknown, no data can be claimed by the tax administration from the financial agency. This restriction should be lifted, and the tax authorities should be able to have more extensive means to systematically lift bank secrecy; not only when a taxpayer has been identified, but in all cases assumptions based on evidence of fraud – even by accomplices, as I mentioned earlier. Therefore, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we consider that the work of the committee has made it possible to move forward in the search for the most effective ways to combat large-scale tax evasion or evasion. It may not have deepened some aspects. Nevertheless, because it provides the lever for drafting legislation that will make it possible to increase efficiency in the fight against tax fraud, despite the reservations I have expressed, our group will abstain from voting on the conclusions of this report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u41	Mr President, very briefly, I had just lost le bon mot. The Attorney General said, "Qui veut tricher, doit suer." Let the one who's playing tricks sweat. That's my party's point of view on this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u42	Following the discussion of the reports of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the finalisation of the mandate of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers and of the Special Committee on the Panama Papers and International Tax Fraud, the following motions were tabled. In conclusion of the discussion of the reports of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to finalize the mission of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers and the Special Committee on Panama Papers and International Tax Fraud, the following motions were tabled. A first motion was tabled by Mr Peter Vanvelthoven and Mr Ahmed Laaouej and reads as follows: The Chamber of Representatives, heard the report on and discussion of the work and recommendations of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers, A. takes note of the report by the Special Committee (Doc. 54 2749/001); B. approves the recommendations of the Special Committee, subject to the following amendments being accepted: 1. In Recommendation 2 (a), the words "by recruiting tax specialists to invest in tax expertise' are replaced by the words "by recruiting tax specialists to invest in tax expertise'. 2. Add a Recommendation 4a, which reads as follows: "The role of the supervisor should be clarified as regards his reporting obligation; the financial watchdog should be a performant reporting tool'. 3. In Recommendation 8, delete the word "concrete" between the words "er" and "elements." 4. Recommendation 12 is replaced by the following: "To this end, it is necessary to ensure that internal legislation and its practical application go beyond the minimum standards imposed by the EU and the FATF." 5. Add Recommendation 14a as follows: "The capacity of the CFI needs to be strengthened with sensitivity. To this end, the CFI's budget shall be increased by 20%." 6. Delete Recommendation 15. 7. Add Recommendation 15a as follows: "In order to safeguard the effectiveness of the preventive money laundering chain and the fight against money laundering but also against the financing of terrorism, it is laid down by law that obliged persons cannot be held liable when reporting to the CFI." 8. Add Recommendation 15ter worded as follows: "Set up a system whereby financial institutions that know or suspect that their clients have previously repatriated capital from abroad (without regularising the (full) capital) must ask their clients to settle as a rule, in the absence of which a notification is made under the Preventive Money Laundering Act." 9. The text of Recommendation 18 is replaced by the following: "18. The CFI does not exercise any control and sanction over the various professions which are deemed to file claims on money laundering suspects. Moreover, the professional organizations of the non-financial professions fail to control their members. The Committee therefore calls for the creation of a federal control body for the non-financial professions. That authority could issue regulations, carry out checks and, where appropriate, impose sanctions." 10. In Recommendation 20, add the following sentence between the first and second sentences: "The Belgian authorities must make available effective databases to enable the beneficiary to be better identified." 11. Recommendation 19 is replaced by the following: "19. The UBO register introduced in accordance with the EU Money Laundering Directives should be freely accessible. The means of access shall be developed in accordance with European legislation." 12. Add Recommendation 20a as follows: "At European level, Belgium is in favour of a maximum UBO register and a register accessible to the public." 13. Recommendation 21 is replaced by the following: "There is a general prohibition (including with regard to non-notified entities) to maintain trade relations with legal arrangements established in tax havens where the beneficial owner cannot be identified. The tax authority shall carry out special checks on the taxable persons concerned." 14. Add in Recommendation 27 for the words "After evaluation" "FPS Finance Achieved." 15. Add Recommendation 27a as follows: "27a. The system of tax regularisation whereby criminal immunity can be obtained is abolished. Taxpayers who spontaneously rule can turn to the tax administration which imposes the legally established sanctions, and the administration can decide to transfer the file to the Parket for prosecution." 16. Add Recommendation 28a as follows: "28a. The general anti-abuse clause is further strengthened by aligning it with the anti-abuse clause in ATAD." 17. Add Recommendation 28b as follows: "28b. Belgium gives maximum effect to the implementation of the OECD BEPS Action Plan by exceeding the minimum standards. The transposition of European directives relating to BEPS also exceeds the minimum standards imposed." 18. Add Recommendation 28quater as follows: "28quater. Belgium fully supports the European Commission's proposals on BEPS. In the international fora (OECD and UN) Belgium advocates the launch of work for a second round of international tax reforms to combat tax avoidance. Belgium is calling for equal participation of developing countries in the negotiations on new international measures against tax avoidance." 19. Delete Recommendation 30. 20. Recommendation 32 is replaced by the following: "With regard to the introduction of CFC rules in line with the ATAD, the Committee recommends that option 1 (Article 7, 2, a, of the ATAD) be chosen, and thus not for option limiting the CFC rules to artificial constructions." 21. Recommendation 32a is inserted as follows: "The CFC rules to be introduced in accordance with ATAD shall be implemented in good time as provided for in the Directive." 22. Recommendation 34a is inserted as follows: "34a. The European Commission's proposal on manual disclosure rules is fully supported by Belgium." 23. Recommendation 35 is amended as follows: "After the word "double structure," the following words are inserted: "by explicing that "undirect" structures are also covered by the Cayman tax;" 24. Recommendation 35a is inserted as follows: "For the revenue of the legal arrangement, a separate code must be provided on the declaration form." 25. Recommendation 35b is inserted as follows: "Strengthening the obligations relating to the declaration of bank accounts, life assurance and foreign legal arrangements by requiring the detail of the purpose indicated in each country as an annex'. 26. The text of Recommendation 36 is replaced by the following: "36. The concepts relating to significantly more favourable taxation than the Belgian ones are uniformized (Article 203 WIB, Article 54 WIB, Article 198, 11 WIB, Article 307 WIB, 344 § 2 WIB). In doing so, the effective tax burden is considered to be the most important criterion. Complementaryly, a list of non-cooperating tax havens can be drawn up in line with the uniform list established by the EU." 27. The text of Recommendation 39 is replaced by the following: "39. In order to ensure optimum information collection, the declaration threshold of EUR 100 000 set out in Article 307 WIB 92 shall be reduced as well as an additional obligation to communicate the identity of the UBO to be registered (and to consider as a deduction condition)." 28. The text of Recommendation 42 is replaced by the following: "42. Articles 318 and 322, §2 WIB 92 amend in such a way that, by analogy with the possibilities of recovery, VAT, inheritance and registration duties and mutual administrative assistance, an "bank investigation' can also be carried out in respect of income taxes without first having to exist elements of tax evasion and a "bank investigation' can be carried out for the accounts of which the holder is not known. The bank inquiry may not take place at the time of the establishment of the tax until the taxpayer has been given the opportunity to provide the information in advance and subject to authorisation by the administrator-general. This recommendation is, of course, also related to Recommendation 68 (harmonisation of the tax procedure).' 29. In Recommendation 43, the following words are deleted: "if useful and necessary for the correct processing and checking of the Belgian tax." 30. In Recommendation 48, the words "without reserve" shall be inserted between the words "include Belgium" and "include the Multilateral Agreement." 31. Recommendation 50 is replaced by the following: "As regards the negotiation of new DBV: - adapt the Belgian Model Convention to the latest OECD guidelines on countering base erosion and profit shifting; - exempt from tax if the income in question has also been effectively taxed and if foreign income has virtually not been taxed, switch to a set-off of the foreign tax; - state in the title of a Convention that the purpose of the Convention is not only to avoid double taxation but also to ensure effective collection of taxes; - include a specific anti-abuse clause limiting the benefits of the Convention to entities which fulfil a number of conditions to be defined in terms of legal structure, ownership and economic substance; - include a general anti-abuse clause based on the objective of transactions or constructions, as provided for in the OECD recommendations; - to promote legal certainty by enabling the tax administration to develop in the short term, within the framework of the Multilateral Instrument, a tool whereby it becomes clear in a quick and simple way how and what provisions have been adapted in the Belgian double taxation treaties. Specifically, in the case of DBV's negotiations with developing countries: - based on the United Nations Model Convention providing specific favourable commissions in the context of our country's development efforts; - waive special exemptions for interest and capital gains.' 32. Recommendation 51 is replaced by the following: "As regards the DBV already negotiated: - without reliance on the adaptation of as many bilateral treaties as possible through the multilateral instrument for the implementation of the BEPS actions on treaty issues; - to play a leading role in this process and to promote the ratification by as many countries as possible of the multilateral instrument for amending the tax treaties; - renegotiate treaties in the light of the BEPS recommendations on treaty issues if the partner country does not wish to ratify the aforementioned multilateral instrument; - renegotiate treaties which contain the condition of taxable capacity and thereby pose a risk of double non-taxation; - define the meaning of 'taxed' in protocols to the Treaties, clearly stating that no tax exemption can be granted because the source State does not identify the person or entity as a taxable person, does not consider income taxable, exempts income (unconditionally) from the tax due, or does not indicate the taxable income in the source State; - replace existing conflicting administrative directives with a single coherent administrative directive; As regards the DBV already negotiated specifically with developing countries: - to offer the opportunity to renegotiate treaties in a fair, comprehensive and inclusive manner and to launch a programme to renegotiate treaties with developing countries if those countries so wish, providing for the financing of external legal or economic advice at the request of the negotiating partner." 33. In Recommendation 52, the first indent is replaced by the following: "-periodic and at least once a year to consult the Chambers of Finance and Foreign Affairs on international tax (treaties) policy. This should be done for the first time on the basis of an in-depth note setting out the principles of international fiscal policy prepared by the FPS Finance on the basis of a consultation of civil society;" 34. In Recommendation 56, the following words are deleted: "To put an end to double taxation within the E.E.R. Belgium also argues for an exemption at source for dividends, interests and royalties paid to a natural or legal person resident for tax purposes in the E.E.R." 35. The text of Recommendation 58 is replaced by the following: "The control capacity of the transfer pricing cell is doubled'. 36. Recommendation 58a is inserted as follows: "In practice, in the case of agreement between administration and taxable person, a sanction is rarely imposed. A minimum tax increase of 10% should become the norm, even in case of agreement with the taxpayer on the correction." 37. Insert a Recommendation 58b, which reads as follows: "With regard to the transfer pricing referred to in Article 26 WIB, the assessment period referred to in Article 358, 2 WIB shall be increased from two to five years." 38. Recommendation 59a is inserted as follows: "Belgium supports the European Commission's proposal to introduce a common consolidated corporate tax base (CCCTB) and calls for a European minimum corporate tax rate." 39. The text of Recommendation 68 is replaced by the following: "68. The tax administration may impose a fine of EUR 625 on a taxable person who refuses to participate in an on-the-spot tax check (on-the-spot verification). Those involved sometimes prefer to pay this amount rather than run the risk of an increased tax evasion charge. To that end, the BBI has rightly requested that a clear duty of cooperation in tax controls be included in the law and supplemented by a correct, justified and compelling sanction. In line with the 2015 Minister of Finance and Anti-Fraud Action Plan, the Committee recommends that a new criminal offence be introduced in the event of obstruction of tax supervision by analogy with the Social Criminal Code (Article 209).' 40. Recommendation 68a is inserted as follows: "68a. The Law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data, in Article 3 (7), provides for an exception in favour of the FPS Finance to the obligation to submit certain information to the person concerned, in particular as regards the origin and content of the data, for the period during which they are the subject of an audit or a tax investigation or the preparatory documents thereof, to the extent that the inspection and copy could harm that investigation. This exception is not provided for in the Act of 11 April 1994 on the disclosure of administrative information. It is therefore easy for a taxable person who, on the basis of the abovementioned law of 8 December 1992, does not have access to certain sensitive information for the purpose of submitting the same application on the basis of the abovementioned law of 11 April 1994. In order to ensure the success of tax investigations, the Committee recommends that an article be inserted into the WIB 92 in order to derogate from the law of 11 April 1994 on public administration, in particular Article 4, so that the effectiveness of tax investigations would not be harmed. The Committee points out that the legislator has already introduced such a derogation in respect of requests for information from foreign authorities and provides the replies to those authorities as well as any other correspondence between the competent authorities with the law of 30 June 2017 on measures to combat tax fraud." 41. In Recommendation 69, the words "when using legal arrangements in tax havens intended to conceal the origin and/or existence of the property" are deleted. 42. In Recommendation 75, the words "and until Recommendation No. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers has been deleted. 43. The text of Recommendation 76 is replaced by the following: "76. Subject to fundamental rights as guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights, draft and adopt a law confirming the Anti-Goonleer (on the admissibility of illegally obtained evidence) in tax matters." 44. In Recommendation 79, the words "may be considered" shall be replaced by the words "shall be introduced." 45. The text of Recommendation 82 is replaced by the following: "82. By analogy with the provisions of the UK Criminal Finances Act 2017, the Company Code introduces a crime in relation to companies that have not taken sufficient measures to prevent the facilitation of tax fraud by connected persons." 46. Insert a recommendation 86a, which reads as follows: "Include the concept of'serious tax fraud' in Article 90b (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, so that telephone tap can also be requested for that infringement." 47. Insert a Recommendation 86b, which reads as follows: "Enable proactive investigation in accordance with Article 28a (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure." 48. Insert a recommendation 86quater, worded as follows: "The Committee recommends that banks provide information to the Central Contact Point on a digital medium and in a uniform manner." 49. In Recommendation 93 (second indent), the words "at least indirectly" are deleted. 50. Insert a Recommendation 98a, which reads as follows: "98a. The cases in which the extended amicable settlement may lead to a decline in the staff claim should be framed within a clear policy of prosecution in which the very serious cases of tax fraud do not qualify for the extended amicable settlement. Records of very serious tax fraud should always lead to prosecution and final judgment by a judge. The law on the extended amicable settlement is therefore amended so that the possibility of a friendly settlement is abolished in cases of very serious tax fraud." 51. In Recommendation 97, the word "adapt" is replaced by the word "upgrade." 52. Insert a new Recommendation 98a, which reads as follows: "The officials of a specialised cell in the BBI should be assigned the status of a judicial police officer; they will be entrusted, in accordance with the prosecution policy, with the files forwarded to them in respect of serious or very serious tax fraud treated under criminal law." 53. Insert the word "financial" in Recommendation 109 for the word "unit parquet." In Recommendation 109 between the first and second indents, insert a indent with the following text: "The establishment of that specialised unit at the public prosecutor's office is without prejudice to the civil powers assigned to the labour authority today. This unit will be entrusted, as a matter of priority, with the files on serious tax, social and economic fraud which are so complex and of such great importance that they require special competence and priority follow-up." 54. In Recommendation 113 add a last sentence, which reads as follows: "The usefulness of the CDGEFID no longer needs to be demonstrated, and it is therefore unthinkable to dismantle that service in any way." 55. The text of Recommendation 114 is replaced by the following: "The so-called MOTEMs shall be established as a permanent structure as soon as possible in all five devolved judicial boards. The detection capacity of the MOTEMs will be increased" 56. Insert a Recommendation 116a, which reads as follows: "A large number of natural redundancies are expected at the FBI by 2020. In 2016 there were only 649 employees, compared to 664 in 2015. The government offered 100 extra staff, but they didn't come. The director of the BBI said in the press that the entire BBI should ideally employ 722 staff. The Committee recommends that the proposed number be reached in the short term and according to a clear timetable." 57. Recommendation 118a is inserted as follows: "Within the tax administration, a specific approach to the so-called High Net Worth Individuals (HNWI) is developed in line with OECD recommendations. The creation of a cell 'HNWI' within the administration can be considered in this sense." 58. Recommendation 125 is replaced by the following: "The tax prosecution policy must be modulated into a step-by-step scheme: a. Ordinary tax fraud: administrative handling and sanctioning b. Serious tax fraud: compulsory notification to the public prosecutor: i. If chosen for the administrative route: purely administrative handling and sanctioning; ii. If chosen for the judicial route: effective prosecution with accompanying file transfer to the BBI (OGP), without prejudice to the possibility of an extended friendly settlement. c. Very serious tax fraud: effective prosecution with accompanying file transfer to the BBI (OGP), without possibility of extended friendly settlement." 59. In Recommendation 126 the following words are deleted: "The amount of tax evaded is not a basic criterion of differentiation." A first motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Vanvelthoven and Ahmed Laaouej and read as follows: The House of Representatives, having heard the report and the discussion on the work and recommendations of the special commission "The Panama Papers and International Tax Fraud"; A. takes note of the report of the special commission (DOC 54 2749/001); B. Approves the recommendations of the Special Commission if the following amendments are accepted: 1. In Recommendation 2, replace point a. with "recruiting tax specialists to invest in tax expertise". 2. Add a recommendation 4bis to read as follows: "The role of the supervisor should be clarified with regard to its reporting obligation; the financial officer should be an effective reporting tool". 3. In recommendation 8, delete the word "concretes" between the words "elements" and "indicate". 4. Replace Recommendation 12 with the following: "With this in mind, the aim is to ensure that domestic legislation and its practical application go beyond the minimum standards imposed by the EU and the FATF." 5. Add a recommendation 14bis to read as follows: "The capacity of the TIF must be considerably strengthened. To this end, the TIF budget will be increased by 20%." 6. Delete recommendation 15. 7. Add a recommendation 15bis reading as follows: "With a view to preserving the effectiveness of the chain of preventive measures against money laundering and the fight against money laundering practices, but also, against the financing of terrorism, it is provided in the law that the liability of entities subject to the reporting obligation cannot be incurred when such entities have notified an element to the CTIF." 8. Add a recommendation 15ter to read as follows: "To establish a system whereby financial institutions that know or assume that their customers have formerly repatriated capital from abroad (without the capital (in its entirety) being regularized) must ask their customers to regularize their situation or otherwise generate a reporting obligation under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering." 9. Recommendation 18 is replaced by the following: "18. CTIF does not exercise any powers of control and sanction vis-à-vis the various professions that are expected to file statements of presumption of money laundering. In addition, professional organizations in the non-financial professions are unable to effectively control their members. The committee therefore recommends the establishment of a federal institution for the supervision of non-financial professions. This institution could issue a regulation, carry out checks and, where appropriate, impose sanctions." 10. Add a sentence to Recommendation 20 between the first and second sentences to read as follows: The Belgian authorities must make available efficient databases to better identify the beneficiary." 11. Recommendation 19 is replaced by the following: "19. The UBO register, which is established following the EU anti-money laundering directives, must be freely accessible. Access arrangements will be developed in accordance with European legislation." 12. Add a recommendation 20a reading as follows: "On the European level, Belgium advocates the maximum realization of the UBO register and the publication of the register." 13. Replace recommendation 21 with the following: "General prohibition (also applicable to non-reporting entities) on maintaining commercial relations with legal constructions established in tax havens where the final beneficiary cannot be identified. The tax authorities carry out special checks on the taxpayers concerned." 14. In recommendation 27, add after the word "evaluation" "performed by FPS Finance". 15. Add a recommendation 27bis to read as follows: "27bis. The system of regularization of taxes for obtaining criminal immunity is abolished. Taxpayers who voluntarily regularize their situation can apply to the tax administration and will be subject to the penalties prescribed by law; the administration may decide to forward the case to the prosecution for prosecution." 16. Add a recommendation 28bis to read as follows: "28bis. The general anti-abuse provision is made even more severe by aligning it with the anti-abuse provision of ATAD." 17. Add a recommendation 28ter to read as follows: "28ter. Belgium implements the OECD BEPS Action Plan in a maximalist manner by exceeding the minimum standards. Also for the transposition of the European BEPS Directives, the minimum standards imposed will be exceeded to the maximum." 18. Add a recommendation 28quater to read as follows: "28quater. Belgium fully supports the European Commission's proposals on BEPS. Belgium advocates in international fora (OECD and UN) the launch of work on a second wave of international tax reforms aimed at combating tax evasion. Belgium insists in this regard that developing countries should participate fairly in the negotiations on new international measures to combat tax evasion." 19. Delete recommendation 30. 20. Recommendation 32 is replaced by the following: "Concerning the introduction of CFC rules in the wake of ATAD, the Panel recommends that Option 1 (TAAD Article 7, 2, a) be chosen and therefore not the option that limits the CFC rules to artificial constructions." 21. A Recommendation 32a is inserted and reads as follows: "The CFC rules to be introduced in the wake of ATAD shall be implemented within the time limits laid down in the Directive." 22. A Recommendation 34a is inserted and reads as follows: "34a. Belgium fully supports the European Commission's proposal on the "mandatory disclosure" rules. 23. Recommendation 35 is amended as follows: After the words "double structure" the following words are inserted: ", explaining that structures held "indirectly" are also subject to the Cayman tax;" 24. A recommendation 35a is inserted and reads as follows: "For income from legal construction, a separate code should be provided on the declaration form." 25. A recommendation 35ter is inserted and reads as follows: "Strengthening the reporting obligations of bank accounts, life insurance and legal constructions abroad, requiring a detail, in an annex, of the object declared in each country". 26. Recommendation 36 is replaced by the following: "36. The concepts of taxation which are much more advantageous than in Belgium are standardized (Article 203 CIR, Article 54 CIR, Article 198, 11 CIR, Article 307 CIR, Article 344, § 2 CIR). In this regard, the actual tax burden is considered to be the most important criterion. In addition, a list of tax havens that do not cooperate can be drawn up in line with the EU's uniform list." 27. Recommendation 39 is replaced by the following: "39. In order to ensure optimal information collection, the reporting threshold of EUR 100 000 set out in Article 307 CIR 92 is lowered, and there is an additional requirement for the disclosure of the identity of UBO to be registered (to be considered as a deductibility condition). 28. Recommendation 42 is replaced by the following: "42. Amend Articles 318 and 322, § 2 of IARC 92 to provide, by analogy with the possibilities of collection, VAT, inheritance and registration fees and mutual administrative assistance, that a "bank survey" may also be carried out in relation to income tax without the need for prior elements of tax evasion and that a "bank survey" may be carried out for accounts of which the holder is not known. When making the tax, the bank investigation can only take place after the taxpayer has had the opportunity to provide the information in advance and only with the authorization of the deputy head. It goes without saying that this recommendation is linked to Recommendation 68 (harmonisation of the tax procedure)." 29. In recommendation 43, the following words are deleted: ", provided that this is useful and necessary for the correct treatment and control of Belgian tax." 30. In recommendation 48, the words "without reservation" are inserted between the words "Belgium accedes in any case" and "Multilateral Instrument". 31. Recommendation 50 is replaced by the following: "Concerning the negotiation of new CDI: - adapting the Belgian model convention to the latest OECD directives on combating tax base erosion and profit transfer; - grant a tax exemption only if the income concerned has actually been taxed and where foreign income has hardly been taxed, move to an imputation of the foreign tax; - mention, in the title of the Convention, that it is intended not only to avoid double taxation but also to ensure the effective collection of tax; - insert a specific anti-abuse provision limiting the benefits of the convention to entities meeting conditions to be defined in terms of legal structure, ownership and economic substance; - insert a general anti-abuse provision based on the objective of transactions or constructions, in accordance with OECD recommendations; - to strengthen legal certainty by entrusting the tax administration with developing in the near future, within the framework of the Multilateral Instrument, a tool to quickly and simply find out what provisions have been adapted in Belgian conventions for the prevention of double taxation and how they have been. Specifically, when it comes to CDI negotiations with developing countries: - be based on the United Nations model convention providing specific provisions that are advantageous in the context of the development efforts of our country; - to waive special exemptions for interest and capital gains;" 32. Replace recommendation 51 with the following: "With regard to CDI already negotiated: - to make full use of the adaptation of the largest number of bilateral conventions with the help of the multilateral instrument for the implementation of BEPS actions on issues relating to the conventions; - play a pioneering role in this regard and work to ensure that the largest number of countries ratify the multilateral instrument amending the double taxation conventions; - renegotiate the conventions in the light of BEPS recommendations on issues relating to the conventions if the partner country does not wish to ratify the aforementioned multilateral instrument; - renegotiate the Treaties providing for the condition of subjection and thus presenting a risk of double non-taxation; - define the term "imposed" in the protocols of the conventions by clearly stating that no tax exemption may be granted on the ground that the State of the source does not recognize the status of a person or entity as a taxpayer, does not qualify a taxable income, exempts income as (in)conditional, waives tax due legally, or because the taxpayer does not declare certain income in the State of the source; - replace conflicting administrative directives with a single coherent administrative directive; With regard specifically to CDI with developing countries: - to provide an opportunity to renegotiate the conventions in an equitable, comprehensive and inclusive manner and to launch a programme to renegotiate the conventions with developing countries if they so wish and to provide for the financing of an external legal or economic advice if the negotiating partner so requests." 33. In Recommendation 52, replace the first indent with the following: " - to consult periodically and at least once a year with the House's Finance and External Relations Committees on international (conventional) tax policy. The first time, this consultation will have to be based on an in-depth note prepared by the FPS Finance on the basis of a consultation of civil society, which will identify the initial assumptions regarding international tax policy." 34. In recommendation 56, delete the following words: "In order to put an end to double taxation within the E.E.E., Belgium also recommends the exemption at source of dividends, interest and royalties distributed to a natural or legal person having his or her tax residence in the E.E.E.." 35. The text of Recommendation 58 is replaced by the following: "The transfer pricing unit's control capacity is doubled." 36. Add a recommendation 58bis as follows: "In the event of an agreement between the administration and the taxpayer, a penalty is rarely imposed in practice. A minimum tax increase of 10% should become the norm, also in case of agreement with the taxpayer regarding the adjustment." 37. Add a recommendation 58ter to read as follows: "With regard to "transfer pricing" referred to in particular in Article 26 of the CIR, the period of taxation referred to in Article 358(2) of the CIR shall be increased from 2 to 5 years." 38. Add a recommendation 59a reading as follows: "Belgium supports the European Commission's proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base and advocates a European minimum corporate tax rate." 39. Recommendation 68 is replaced by the following: "68. The tax administration may impose a fine of 625 euros on a taxpayer who refuses to cooperate in an on-the-spot tax control (on-the-spot investigation). They sometimes prefer to pay this amount rather than incur a tax surcharge for tax evasion. In this sense, the ISI has rightly requested that the obligation to cooperate with tax controls be clearly enshrined in the law and accompanied by a correct, justified and binding sanction. As a follow-up to the Minister of Finance's 2015 action and anti-fraud plan, the commission recommends the creation of a new criminal offence in case of obstruction of fiscal control, by analogy with article 209 of the Criminal Social Code." 40. Add a recommendation 68bis to read as follows: "68bis. Article 3(7) of the Law of 8 December 1992 on the Protection of Privacy in Respect of the Processing of Personal Data provides for an exception for the FPS Finances from the obligation to submit certain information to the data subject, in particular with regard to the origin and content of the data, during the period during which the data subject is subject to control, investigation or preparatory acts to the data subject in so far as such consultation or the issuance of a copy could be detrimental to the investigation. This exception is not provided for in the Act of 11 April 1994 on administrative advertising. It is therefore easy for a taxpayer who does not have access, for the purposes of the investigation, to certain sensitive information on the basis of the above-mentioned Act of 8 December 1992, to make the same request on the basis of the above-mentioned Act of 11 April 1994. In order to ensure the success of tax investigations, the Commission recommends that an article be included in IARC 92 to derogate from the Act of 11 April 1994 on administrative advertising, and in particular section 4, in order not to undermine the effectiveness of tax investigations. The Commission points out that the legislator has already provided for such derogations in respect of requests for information from foreign authorities and the replies provided to those authorities, as well as any other correspondence between the competent authorities under the Act of 30 June 2017 on measures to combat tax fraud." 41. In recommendation 69, delete the words "when legal constructions are used in tax havens intended to conceal the origin and/or existence of the heritage." 42. In recommendation 75, delete the words "and until recommendation 18 is effective." 43. Recommendation 76 is replaced by the following: "76. In view of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights, draft and adopt a law confirming the Antigone doctrine (admissibility of evidence gathered irregularly) in tax matters." 44. In recommendation 79, replace the words "may be considered" with the words "is established". 45. Replace recommendation 82 with the following: "82. By analogy with the provisions of the Criminal Finance Act 2017 of the United Kingdom, criminalization is provided for companies that have not introduced sufficient measures to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion in relation to related persons." 46. Add a recommendation 86bis to read as follows: "Insert the concept of serious tax fraud in Article 90ter, § 2 of the Code of Criminal Investigation in order to allow also to request telephone taps for this offence." 47. Add a recommendation 86ter reading as follows: "To allow proactive investigation in accordance with Article 28a, § 2 of the Code of Criminal Investigation." 48. Add a recommendation 86quater reading as follows: "The Commission recommends that the provision of information to the central point of contact by banks be done in digital format and in a uniform manner." 49. In recommendation 93 (second indent), delete the words "at least indirect". 50. Add a recommendation 98bis to read as follows: "98bis. Cases in which the extended transaction may lead to the termination of criminal proceedings must be included in a clear prosecution policy in which very serious cases of tax evasion are not taken into account for an extended transaction." Very serious tax fraud cases must always lead to prosecution and, ultimately, a judge's decision. The extended transaction law must be amended so that the conclusion of a criminal transaction is impossible in cases of very serious tax fraud." 51. In recommendation 97, replace the word "adapt" with the word "increase". 52. Insert a new recommendation 98bis reading as follows: "A specialized unit of officials within the ISI should be given the status of a judicial police officer, who, in accordance with the prosecution policy, will be responsible for cases of serious or very serious tax fraud which have been transferred to them and which are dealt with by criminal means." 53. In recommendation 109, add the word "financial" between the words "parquet" and "unique". In recommendation 109, between the 1st and 2nd indent, insert a indent reading as follows: "The establishment of this specialized unit within the Public Prosecutor's Office shall not prejudice the civil powers now vested in the Labour Auditorate. This unit will have as a priority the burden of cases of great tax, social and economic fraud, which, because of their complexity and the issues at stake, require special competence and priority follow-up." 54. In recommendation 113, add a final sentence reading: "The usefulness of OECDFO is no longer to be demonstrated, any form of dismantling is inconceivable." 55. Replace the text of recommendation 114 with the following: "MOTEM" shall be established as a permanent structure in all five decentralized judicial directorates as soon as possible. The research capacity of MOTEMs is strengthened." 56. Add a recommendation 116bis reading as follows: "Many natural departures are expected within the ISI by 2020. The figures show 649 employees in 2016, compared to 664 in 2015. The 100 reinforcements announced by the government do not translate into action. The director of the ISI said in the press that "the ideal would be to have 722 collaborators for the whole of the ISI." The committee recommends that this ambition be achieved in a clear and fast agenda." 57. Add a recommendation 118bis to read as follows: "In the tax administration, in line with the OECD recommendations, a specific approach is developed for High Net Worth Individuals (HNWIs). The creation of an HNWI cell within the administration can be considered in this sense." 58. Recommendation 125 is replaced by the following: "The tax prosecution policy must be modulated according to a step-by-step scheme: a. Ordinary tax fraud: administrative treatment and administrative sanctions; b. Serious tax fraud: mandatory information to the Public Prosecutor's Office I. Whether the administrative route is chosen: only administrative treatment and administrative sanctions; II. If the judicial route is chosen: effective prosecution and transfer of file to the ISI (DPM), without prejudice to the possibility of an extended transaction. c. Very serious tax fraud: effective prosecution with transfer to the ISI (DPG), without the possibility of an extended transaction." 59. In recommendation 126, delete the following words: "The amount of tax evaded shall not be an elementary criterion of distinction." A second motion was tabled by Mrs Griet Smaers and Mr Luk Van Biesen, Robert Van de Velde and Vincent Scourneau and reads as follows: The House of Representatives heard the report on and the discussion of the work and recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the finalisation of the mandate of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers and of the Special Committee on Panama Papers and International Tax Fraud of the work and recommendations of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers (Doc. 54-2344/005 and DOC. 54 2749/001 and 002) - takes note of the report by the Special Committee (Doc. 54 2749/001 and 002) and the Committee of Inquiry (Doc. 54 2344/005); - approves the conclusions and 132 recommendations of the Special Committee and the decision of the Committee of Inquiry. A second motion was tabled by Ms Griet Smaers and MM. Luk Van Biesen, Robert Van de Velde and Vincent Scourneau and read as follows: The House of Representatives, having heard the report and the discussion on the work and recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to finalize the mission of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers and the Special Committee on Panama Papers and International Tax Fraud (DOC 54 2344/005 and DOC 54 2749/001 and 002) - takes note of the report of the Special Committee (DOC 54 2749/001 and 002) and the Committee of Inquiry (DOC 54 2344/005); - Approves "the conclusions and 132 recommendations" drawn up by the Special Committee and the conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry. An amendment to the second motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Dispa, Michel de Lamotte, Christian Brotcorne and Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mrs Isabelle Poncelet, which reads as follows: Add motion 2 as follows with a point 3 and a point 4: "3. calls on the government to strengthen the human and material resources needed to combat tax avoidance effectively in order to enable the tax administration to combat tax havens and their consultants with equal weapons; 4. set up a follow-up committee to ensure the implementation of the recommendations of the Panama Papers Committee and, in particular, to propose other more appropriate instruments to combat major tax fraud more effectively." An amendment was tabled on the second motion by Messrs. Benoît Dispa, Michel de Lamotte, Christian Brotcorne and Ms. Catherine Fonck and Ms. Isabelle Poncelet and is worded as follows: Complete motion 2 with one item 3 and one item 4 as follows: "3. Calls upon the Government to strengthen the human and material resources necessary for an effective fight against tax evasion in order to enable the tax administration to fight on equal terms with tax havens and their advisers; 4. sets up a monitoring committee to ensure the implementation of the recommendations of the Panama Papers Commission and, above all, to propose other more appropriate tools to combat tax fraud more effectively." The vote on the motions and the amendment will take place at a later date. The vote on the motions and the amendment will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u43	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Catherine Fonck
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u44	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Lijnen, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u45	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am finally saying that not only because of today's late hour, we are here to discuss and approve the draft law on services in the hemisphere. It was a long and difficult course. For us, it represents an important step forward in ensuring our public service. It is extremely important for passengers, because they get frustrated with every train strike. I will not repeat the statements made in committee. We have already discussed the subject at length and, in fact, the debate on it did not begin when this draft law was discussed, but when the government took office. For the opposition and the trade unions, the idea of working on it by means of social dialogue was too far-reaching. In response, we got one strike after another. We can say that the railway unions themselves have only increased their support for the legislative text and have undermined their image. The result of the strikes was many questions in our committee and in plenary, media debates and now finally the discussion and later the vote. Why is the design so important to the N-VA? Actually, I wouldn't have to explain that. It is self-evident that a public service provision is also guaranteed on strike days. Public transport by train plays an important role in our mobility policy. Around 870 000 passengers travel daily by train. A strike of railway workers which, as in the past, almost all rail traffic has been shut down is therefore totally out of proportion. The importance of several hundred to the nuisance for hundreds of thousands is disproportionate. The consequences are enormous: longer traffic jams, frustrated travellers, image damage for our railway companies, falling customer satisfaction and, of course, economic consequences. The N-VA firmly states that a public service that is not guaranteed is not worthy of public service. If one is convinced of the importance of public transport, then one can only support the draft law. For your information and to refresh your memory, in 2014 we had a total of 18 strike days: 10 announced and 8 wild strikes. During those strike days, Minister Galant, Minister Bellot's predecessor, confirmed that signal houses and tracks were occupied and then by people who were not working on the railways or who were no longer active in our railway companies. I wonder, then, and I hope all of you, why these people occupy the tracks. Anyone may strike, including the draft bill before us. It should only be reported so that the strike can be organized. There is not a single member of staff who will not have the right to strike. There will just have to be some rules followed. Thanks to the new law test, the willing train crew, which I appreciate greatly, will no longer be able to be used, or rather abused, to hold political strikes against the government. The many strikes that have been there have been purely political strikes. During the discussion in our committee, colleagues from the opposition mentioned the Windowdressing dossier. Several colleagues claimed that the passengers would be the victims. Have these colleagues ever taken the train before or after a strike day? Then what was their response to the travelers? Do they really think that there is anyone else who understands the many rail strikes with major consequences, with the whole train network just being flattened? Mr Geerts mentioned the dossier as the trophy of the government and of the N-VA. Well, that's what I'm following my dear colleague. The introduction of minimum service on strike days is extremely important for the government. The fact that we finally realize that after today, or after tomorrow morning, this is finally a definite policy is certainly a trophy for us. It is a trophy of the government and it is mainly a trophy of and for the traveller. Many colleagues also made the link between this draft law and the savings imposed on railway companies. I never understood that link. Do they mean that not letting trains run is a saving in itself? I don't understand. Perhaps in their speech I will hear what they meant by that. The united opposition also claimed that a guaranteed service would not work, that there would be chaos on the track. However, the many figures in response to parliamentary questions show that the willingness to strike is relatively low. In addition, up to 20% of the employees of our railway companies are freed on a strike day. Is that mandatory or out of necessity? I don't know. It is certainly a large number. On 31 May 2016, the railway companies confirmed that the scenarios proposed are perfectly applicable to the strike days prior to the hearing. The strikes of May 2016 also teach us that the willingness to strike on the Flemish side is always much lower than on the Walloon side and that a nice train offer is possible in Flanders.We could see that on the screenshot I had made of the train offer on those days. The fact that the draft law would create unsafe situations is another argument from the opposition. However, the then director, Mr De Ganck, and Mrs Billiau van Infrabel, said very explicitly that no train would leave without guarantee of safety. The fact that those who are so concerned with safety on strike days have so far failed to block the occupation of tracks and signalling houses is really not going to go into my mind. Colleagues, if something is unsafe now, it is the occupation of tracks and signal houses or the laying of iron bars between the tracks. I have not yet heard any condemnation of these practices from the left.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u46	Mrs De Coninck, you know that this can already be punished by means of the Criminal Code today, in particular by means of Article 406. You say we didn't say anything about it, but just follow the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u47	I have never heard you publicly condemn such practices. On the contrary, if Infrabel submits unilateral petitions to the judge prior to these strikes, you condemn Infrabel's dare to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u48	Indeed, that is because unilateral petitions during a conciliation procedure do not lead to conciliation. You must correctly reflect what I said at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u49	Unilateral petitions are submitted, if there is a strike commitment. This conciliation is actually something for social dialogue, I believe. I have another thought for everyone here. In my view, the measure contained in the draft law removes exactly the perverse effect of a strike. The disproportionate impact on society in relation to the importance of a few who strike is precisely being countered, and I believe that this is the way to ensure that social dialogue can be more successful. That is what we all agree on, namely: the best solution against strikes is not a strike. Social dialogue must lead to an agreement which is acceptable to both trade unions and companies and which is based on safeguarding the future of our railway companies, including their train crews. Colleagues, after years of dubbing and dubbing, the minimum service is now almost certainly a policy. The sharpest edges of a track strike are nicely filed off. For N-VA this is a logical and first step towards a better regulation of train strikes. Many countries, including our neighbouring countries, have already preceded us and have some form of minimum service in the event of strike days. You all know, ladies and gentlemen, that our proposal that we tabled in October 2015 went much further. Nevertheless, we welcome this first step. I think it is a very reasonable proposal. The right to strike shall not be restricted. Each worker retains his or her right to strike is, after all, an individual right to strike. However, he or she will have to follow a number of rules. Workers covered by the categories concerned will simply have to report whether or not they will participate in the strike. In this way, SNCB and Infrabel can still drive trains. They will be based on the willing staff. On the day before the strike, SNCB will then communicate with its passengers on which trains run and which do not. In every company, that's the most normal thing in the world. Why shouldn't our rail companies be able to do that? The communication to the passengers included in the system is positive. This distinguishes us from the system applied in France during strike days. This communication is a very important issue for the traveller. I therefore hope that the company will use all the means to inform the traveller sufficiently of the transport offer on the strike day and that it will be clearly and clearly communicated on the timetable. As a traveller one wants to know which train one can take and which one cannot. Since the new CEO recently stressed the importance of good communication in our committee, I do have a good feeling. For many years, the railway unions have sabotaged the file by blocking and slowing down it. I remember a statement by Mr Goossens who said after months of negotiations that he had no mandate to negotiate the guaranteed service. The question now is how the unions will react to it. Will they accept the measure, or will they stick to it by means of all kinds of roads? They strongly oppose the proposal because it gnaws at its dominant position within the railways. Unfortunately, no law, not even this draft on minimum services, provides a remedy against railing strikers or other sabotage actions by radical union militants. We can only welcome the firm action of our police forces and the sanctioning of the railway companies themselves in order to avoid such abuses in the future. Hopefully, however, it does not have to come to that. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not prolong my speech in the light of the hour that has come. I would like to conclude by thanking the staff who have contributed to the dossier, the majority members and former Minister Galant. Perhaps someone from her group could pass on my thanks to her. I would also like to thank Minister Bellot, who has taken over the dossier and is now finally able to present his draft law here and put it to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, last but not least, I would also like to thank the train crew. After all, I am extremely grateful to the willing train staff who have tried to provide a train offer over the past few days. That staff remained friendly when travelers expressed their displeasure over the many strikes. It is committed to our mobility on a daily basis and with great enthusiasm. I am convinced that this law is also a law for them to be proud of. From now on, they will no longer be called upon to strike, and hopefully there will be more understanding and respect for those who do work on strike days, but also for those who do wish to cease under the rules of this law. Finally, because it was expressly stated in committee that this would be a symbol file and a trophy, I brought a trophy, which I will hand over to the Minister. It is for us the trophy of the train passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a bit like this government, namely: antisocial and ineffective. This government is working with smoke screens to hide its austerity measures in the case we are dealing with: 3 billion savings, 6,000 fewer railway workers by 2020, 800 kilometres less rural lines, 33 windows that will be closed, catastrophic punctuality figures. I'm on it, and I'm on it. This government, like this bill, is disconnected from the realities, so much so that it does not want to hear them. So when we asked for committee hearings on this bill, they were simply denied to us. Of course, there is no desire to be confronted with the realities of commuters, workers and union representatives. Disconnected from the realities of commuters, first of all. We mustn't fool ourselves, the commuters are not fooled. Besides, when you say you listen to them, do you really listen to them? Are you listening to us as commuters? As far as I'm concerned, I do. I'm gonna try to be the relay tonight. Let us take the association Shuttles.be, to name but one, and its opinion on this bill. What does Shuttles.be say? First of all, and I agree with them, that we must try to avoid strikes. The best strike is obviously the one that does not take place. But commuters.be also says all his fears about safety and comfort in the face of this bill. It also points to the reduction in the room for manoeuvre that railway workers will have in the future vis-à-vis their employer. Finally, – we must also highlight this point – as well as Shuttles.be, we ask that the government focus on real priorities. What are these real priorities? The presentation here in Parliament of a management contract that we can discuss. The deposit on our banks of a multi-year investment plan which we can also discuss. But we obviously prefer to leave all this aside to come with bills that are not in favour of users or railway workers, but are purely ideological projects. It must be said that this project responds to a long-standing request from the FEB. It was therefore only designed to please the employer and one of the majority partners who is none other than the N-VA. As I have just said, this project has long been requested by the FEB not to facilitate mobility in our country, not to improve rail traffic in any way, but to weaken the right to strike. From an ideological point of view, for employers, the right to strike is something too much. But let's get to the bottom of the bill! Shuttles.be and the hearings of representatives of SNCB have shown us how impracticable this project was in the end. In fact, at best, it will be necessary to mobilise for certain functions which are necessary, such as security functions, 85 to 100 per cent of the staff. How can we guarantee respect for the right to strike while providing a so-called minimum service? This brings me to the safety problems raised by commuters, railway workers. In the best scenario possible, only one in four trains will be able to ride. About two out of ten passengers will be able to get on a train. Imagine the scoundrel on the docks. Who's going to be able to choose who's going up or who's not going up? Will tickets be granted at the entrance to the docks to those who can actually get on their train? All this seems impracticable. The issue of liability in the event of an accident is, of course, highlighted. Will the train attendant be responsible? And since I'm talking about the staff, who's going to ensure their safety when the travelers fight so they can take the train? Is there not a fear of an increase in the number of attacks on SNCB personnel that will face these difficulties? These questions were obviously asked but did not receive an answer. Similarly, how will a worker be able to explain to his or her employer that he or she has not been able to get to work once this minimum service is established? Nor did the Minister provide an answer to this question. You are disconnected from the realities of commuters and railwaymen. When we talk about the 2014 strike days, that's good. But I'm going to tell you one thing: before this bill was introduced, in the previous year, there was not a single day of strike. On the other hand, it is true that the workforce has been reduced, whereas the staff were asked to increase productivity, that the status of railway workers has been changed, as well as their pensions, that the threats of privatization have frequently been pronounced... I pass and the best. What a contempt for workers and social dialogue when you come with such a bill on minimum service! What are the consequences of such a project for social dialogue? First of all, this will weaken the individual worker. The pressures that will be exerted on him in the future will obviously be greater than today. Tomorrow, every worker will have to declare himself or herself on strike or not. In a context where the number of contractual commitments is increasing, I would like to know what will still be the real freedom left to railway workers to exercise their right to strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u51	Mrs Grovonius, perhaps you could clarify which employee you believe will no longer have the right to strike?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u52	I did not say that workers will no longer have the right to strike. I say that they will be put under potential pressure by their boss as they have to strike individually, which has not been the case so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u53	(...) that they are under pressure to participate in the strike. So I don't think it's right that you claim that there are chemists who no longer have the right to strike. Everyone will have the right to strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u54	Mrs Grovonius, do you know that Infrabel has been keeping lists of people who have ever participated in a strike in the past? These lists make it possible or not to be promoted and also form the basis for the coefficient on which additional supplements, the regular bet, supplementary retirement days, leave days and the like are calculated. If people say here that taking part in a strike does not have an impact on the future career, I would ask you, since you are in the chair, to ask those speakers whether the argument of pressure does not apply to the people who are going to strike anyway? However, I leave it to you to address the other speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u55	I am also addressing Mrs Grovonius, because she may be able to respond to the threat that Mr Geerts poses to Infrabel. If he says that those lists are there and that they have had an effect on the promotion of some people, then he must be able to prove it. I'm looking forward to proof of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u56	I even asked a parliamentary question on this. In the answer it was admitted that it had an impact. I will give you the question and answer in question, and the Minister responsible can also confirm that this was the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u57	Another consequence of the weakening of the social dialogue is, of course, the increased risk of strike movements which are ultimately not framed. When social dialogue is weakened, when trade union organizations are weakened, there is a risk that workers will provoke spontaneous movements, wild strikes. That's what you want to avoid, Mrs. De Coninck. However, this bill does not address this issue at all. I even think – I'm not the only one saying it – that it will significantly amplify it. So this bill doesn't help. It will, in all likelihood, even increase chaos. As I said, I want to discuss the substance. I therefore turn now to the question of legality, because, in the end, you have given little mention of the opinion of the Council of State, as if it had been absent. However, this opinion contained interesting elements, in any case for those who, like me, do not want to do ideology strictly but want to set up ambitious projects really to the benefit of the commuters and workers of SNCB. From the point of view of legality, the criticisms of the Council of State are clear. The Council of State takes a position on existing international treaties and on the principles contained therein, particularly with regard to the right to strike. For the Council of State, that's very clear. This bill violates the right to strike and collective action. What the Council of State then points out is whether this is necessary. Does this meet the basic needs of the population? Unfortunately, these needs are not defined in this bill. This enables the Council of State to conclude that there is a disproportionate violation of the right to strike and collective action in this context. I know that, in the eyes of some, the Council of State does not have any form of importance, but, as far as I am concerned, I find that these elements deserve our attention. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude with these few words. You will not be surprised: my group and I will vote against this bill, quite rightly. Indeed, this project is far more likely to organize the maximum chaos than to organize a real minimum service. You can laugh, Mrs De Coninck, but what the users of the train want is to have a maximum rail service every day, which works 365 days out of 365. They want respect for social dialogue, and that you provide the means to ensure more punctuality, more safety, more comfort, a better reception for users, and above all to improve working conditions. They want a service to the public that is a maximum service, not the minimum service you sell us. This is what users and railway operators are asking for. It is high time you listened to commuters and rail workers. You should not only listen to them, but listen to them at last, because so far you have been completely deaf to their demands and concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u58	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome, at this early hour, the work of the Minister for Mobility, but also that of his team, of all those who have participated in the drafting of this bill, which has been prepared with wisdom, patience, and far from the haste that some would like to give him. The aim of this bill is to establish a guaranteed service to organize the continuity of the service of the railway transport of persons in the event of a strike in the conditions of safety required. It seems important to me to make that clear. This bill is realistic, pragmatic and balanced. It responds to a societal need and to the general interest, first of all in terms of the annual investment made by the State but, above all, by the citizens. I would point out that EUR 2.7 billion is invested annually by citizens in the rail sector. If we do a calculation, Mr Devin, it is 250 euros per person whether she takes the train or not. This investment is not insignificant, far from it. In a time when we are demanding political renewal, when the legitimate demands of our fellow citizens for better governance and better allocation of public funds are present in all our debates, I think that, in the area of rail and guaranteed service, this governance is also invited and must be invited to everyone. Rail is also a strategic infrastructure. Everyone agrees that rail is the backbone of today's and tomorrow's mobility, that rail must operate on a daily basis, that citizens have confidence in rail and that they can benefit from alternative modes of transport to cars. That's why the rail has to operate 365 days on 365, although sometimes it can operate a little less well because there would be a strike. These two elements show that the guaranteed service is in the public interest. Then I heard that the guaranteed service was disconnected from reality and that it was ideological. No, the guaranteed service is pragmatic. He is realistic in your image, Minister. Why is he pragmatic, minister? It's very simple. Because the guaranteed service for those who have not yet understood means that a transport plan will be drawn up according to the persons who wish to work, depending on the number of staff available, the drivers, the attendants.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u59	Mr. Foret, you're talking about political renewal. You're part of it. You talk about safety guarantees and you say that among the railwaymen, those who wish to go to work. You say security must be established. Can you tell us at this rostrum in front of your minister how you will determine who will be on the train? Indeed, you guarantee us the service, but of course not everyone will work. We'll have to make a choice. How are you going to choose the people who will be able to get on the train in a SNCB for which it is true that everyone is contributing, even if in the light of your government's budget savings you are participating less and less?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u60	Mr Devin, it's very simple! I'm taking the current situation. Today, when there is a strike, we don't know which train is going to run. We don't know what capacity is going to work. With the system that I hope will be in place very soon, a transport plan will be defined based on the declarations of SNCB workers who want to work. Obviously, those who do not wish to work are allowed to exercise their right to strike. All conditions must be guaranteed and there must be enough drivers and attendants to ensure that a transport plan is defined. I can't tell you today what transport plan it will be. Since there are different scripts, it will depend on the potential and the fit people who will want to work. Depending on this, a transport plan will be communicated 24 hours in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u61	I had no doubt that part of the assembly was acquired, but I think we can really applaud when you answer that question. You're talking about the railroaders and the transportation plan. How will you choose the rail users who will pick up their train in the morning? You live in Liège, you take the train at the station of Liège. Who will you choose and how, knowing that there will be fewer trains? Instead of three trains per hour, there will be one train per hour. Who can get on that train and stay at the dock?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u62	Mr Devin, who are we choosing today? We don't even know which trains will work. Tomorrow there will be predictability and therefore an improvement in the current situation in the event of a strike. Today is chaos. Tomorrow, it will be organized to ensure that as many people as possible can take the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u63	You're offering us organized chaos!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u64	I explain to you that today, in the event of a strike, it is difficult to know which trains will be available. Tomorrow, with this project, we hope that there will be predictability of the number of trains available. Users will therefore be able to decide whether to take the train or not. There will be predictability. The importance of this project is predictability and to be able to organize not chaos but as continuous a service as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u65	Mr. Foret, you're not answering any questions. You're not answering Mr. Devin's, so I'm gonna ask you another one. What's more predictable than saying "it's a day of strike, there's no running train"?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u66	Mr Foret, as I understand it, there are two types of chaos: unorganized chaos and organised chaos. Unorganized chaos, I see more or less what it is: we do not know what will happen, there is no organization, it is unorganized. But organized chaos? There's the right hunter and the wrong hunter... When you don't know what train is going to happen, the big difference with the service guaranteed on a continuous basis is that with this system, Brussels employers will consider employees to be at work. At present, many workers, among those who take the train, are excused because they have not been able to take their train. With your chaos organization, Mr. Foret, you're going to force everyone to jump on that train. How will people be able to justify their absence if there is a specified train? You will organize the general brothel on the docks of all the stations, because everyone will be obliged, under penalty, to take this train. You cannot compare with the current situation, as this obligation does not yet exist among Brussels employers. Tomorrow, with your system, you can do it. How will you solve the question of who will get on this train when the Guillemins station is full of people? Will it be the one who will have the strongest elbows, will it be the greatest, the smallest? Who will decide who can get on that train?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u67	Mr President, I have a small question about the comments made by Mrs Grovonius and Mr Hedebouw. What will be our government's choice? Will it be to organize inactivity? Or will it be to organize in a consistent way the possibility, for all those who wish to do so, of going to work? I think that's the choice. I also believe that it is our duty, as politicians, to ensure the continuity of public service. What do you think, Congressman?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u68	I am extremely pleased with what Mrs Grovonius said. At least she was clear. For her, a strike is when there is no transportation at all! This is his objective and the objective of his union. She said it a few seconds ago. What is extremely important is that with the new system, people who will get on a train will also know when there are return trains. A commuter goes to work, but he has to come back from work. With the system that will be set up, he will also know which trains will drive back home at night.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u69	Thank you all for these interventions. I see we want to pretend we don't understand. I'll explain again. What is the reality today? We must stop pretending that today strikes are not framed. Protocols exist, notice is given. Today, when there is a strike with notice of strike, a communication is made to the public that, potentially on such a date, there will be a strike. The entire population is warned that there will potentially be no train. Despite this, there are indeed difficulties. People show up, try to catch the train and don't have their train. All of this actually happens. Today, in this context, we are not already able to communicate properly with the population, whereas a priori, the message is rather clear. The question we are asking Mr Foret is also very clear, and we still have no answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u70	You don't let me talk much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u71	Mr. Foret, when you are going to implement this pseudo minimum service, Mr. Devin, Mr. Hedebouw and I ask you to tell us how you are going to communicate clearly to the public who can, or will not, take their train. How will you avoid, on the docks, the cohue and safety problems that this will create for both users and SNCB staff? This is the only question we ask you and you are unable to answer it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u72	Mr President, may I respond?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u73	Go ahead, Mr. Foret.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u74	Madam and gentlemen, thank you for all your questions and comments. I can understand that an unknown person appears in this project, since it is a novelty in Belgium and that the guaranteed service will finally become reality. It is therefore normal for you to be afraid that this service will come into being. I tell you again, in my opinion, the key lies in predictability. We must trust management and the men of SNCB and Infrabel to organize, not chaos, Mr Hedebouw, but continuity of service. In this way, SNCB and Infrabel will be able to drive the trains. Mrs Grovonius, I would like to explain that a procedure will be set up, setting out rules and time limits known to all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u75	Putting in place by whom?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u76	But by citizens, by rail workers, by rail management. Mrs Grovonius, the mechanism proposed here allows for such an organisation. We'll see how it works. For my part, I am confident that rules will be established to ensure that this guaranteed service becomes a reality. It works in other European countries. I don't see why that wouldn't be the case here. I'm confident. I'm sorry, but it is today that chaos is raging, when you want to take the train during strikes that are not framed, contrary to what you say. The wild strikes are, you are right, but the guaranteed service is not a reality at the moment. The user who wishes to take the train cannot be sure that he will be offered an offer. Tomorrow, in the event of a strike, not all trains will run, since the transport plan will be drawn up according to the number of staff who will not participate in the strike. Of course, different scenarios will be involved. Today, I am unable to tell you which passengers, and how many of them, will be able to take the train. It's as simple as that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u77	I really don't know where to start in front of so many absurdities and untruths. You speak frankly of everything and anything and you mix everything! You say it exists in other countries. All right! Are the rail networks organized in the same way? Not at all! Do we hear the same when we talk about the minimum service in France and we talk about the one presented to us tonight? Not at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u78	But the minimum service is a guaranteed service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u79	Stop comparing apples and pears. This has absolutely nothing to do with it! And it cannot be used as an argument to motivate this bill that looks like nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u80	Motivate how?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u81	Another element, Mr. Foret. You're continuing on the same path. You were asked a very simple question, how this will be organized. You don't seem to care. Excuse us, Mr. Foret, but as far as we're concerned, we'd rather not buy a cat in a bag. If you prefer to wait until tomorrow to see how the rules will work, etc., this is not our case. As far as we are concerned, we want a clear bill and what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u82	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, in fact, no response is received. Indeed, you say that we have never tried and that in doing so, we do not know what this will give. Nothing's planned. But let us be very concrete and imagine that 25% of trains can run from Liège-Guillemins. We are generous, because with all the measures you take, anger is terrible. What are we going to decide about the four morning trains? What's going on at 7:30? In this case, we will give an appointment, via the SNCB website, to all the Liegeians at 7:30 a.m. So, all commuters who usually took the 7 a.m., 7:30 a.m., 8:00 a.m., 8:30 a.m. train will be on the same platform at the same time. How are we going to do this? Indeed, many will find themselves on the dock, as all employers will invite their employees who do not come by car to take the train. How are we going to do it on the wharf at Liège-Guillemins station at 7:30 a.m.? Mr. Foret's answer in two minutes!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u83	Mr.Hedebouw, since you're asking me to be specific, I'm going to go back to the bill. We are going to resume the discussions we have already had in committee and I will re-explain the principle of operation. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u84	Mr President, I would like to ask a small question to my colleagues on the left who are asking questions and to clarify a few things. Colleagues, a public company receives instructions in accordance with the laws that are voted and the management contract to ensure that its obligations are met. It will of course be the responsibility of SNCB, as has always been the case – you make it seem like you are discovering it, but perhaps you have not yet understood the difference between a public and a private company – to fulfil its obligations in accordance with the contract to which it is linked and which provides a guaranteed service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u85	Thank you, Mrs Jadin, for referring to this point. As I said in my speech, we should focus on the real priorities. But come and present this management contract! It's been out of date for years. Come and present this multi-year investment plan! We would be very happy to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u86	I would like to note in the parliamentary annals the absence of a concrete response from the MR. Commuters may know that the MR has no response. People who will read will see that you skate in the semolina. Meet at 7:30 a.m. on the Liège-Guillemins wharves to try to find a place on the train! We'll get it! What also strikes me, in response to my colleagues in the MR, is how confident we are that the service will continue. You're assuming that people won't dare strike any more. That's striking! The title itself no longer allows this choice to strike. We assume that there will be continuity. You don't know that yet. This depends on the democratic debates that workers will have among themselves. It is, of course, a very important weapon against the right to strike and against the balance of power that workers are putting in place. That is the ideological purpose of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u87	I'm surprised Mr. Hedebouw's reaction. Indeed, the minister gave us the figures on the last strike movements that took place at SNCB. They show that 85% of the staff were not on strike. When he says that barely 20 or 25% of the staff would be at work, he doesn't know the reality of things. Mrs Grovonius said about the plan that it was still not prepared. I recall that the minister in office in 2009, who was of his party, should have started to prepare this project, which was still not implemented in 2014. Thank you to successive socialist ministers!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u88	The previous minister was not a socialist. She was very Galant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u89	My colleague at the PTB thinks he has the truth on his own, and I will stick to those words. In addition, I think we need to trust management for the decisions we make. We are convinced that they are good for our society as a whole. At the Reform Movement, we want to implement them quickly and consistently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u90	Thank you, colleagues, for your various questions. Mr. Hedebouw, you're right. It is a project that we want to balance, in accordance with the right to strike, indeed. But we also want to ensure that freedom of movement and access to work or learning is also a reality. This project must respect users. It is very important to guarantee this continuity of service under strike conditions, with advance notice and declarations. The mechanism to be put in place will be developed by management with rail workers. We want this service to be as effective as possible, but we realize, of course, that it will be delivered under special conditions. We hope that strikes will not be too frequent in our country. Earlier, someone praised the fact that there had been no strikes for fifteen months. It is also thanks to the strong social dialogue that takes place within SNCB, thanks to management and workers who know that SNCB and rail are strategic tools for all those who go to their places of work or learning. Through this guaranteed service, thanks to a series of mechanisms put in place, we will ensure that rail works even in the event of a strike, while respecting the right of citizens and workers to strike and at the same time balancing freedom of movement. It is important that this freedom of movement be guaranteed for our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Minister, this debate has obviously aroused a lot of emotion. This debate is not only taking place on the benches of the Federal Parliament. It also takes place in the other assemblies. I think we need to be calm. We must be able to accept that our country must move forward and allow effective and effective mobility. This guaranteed service is obviously not an end in itself. Of course, we must continue to invest all our energy so that mobility, Minister, is integrated mobility, connected mobility, effective mobility. I heard that guaranteed service was a smoke screen. No, Mrs Grovonius, it is an additional tool that will enable the efficiency of public transport, public transport in our country. I hope that earlier, but I have no doubt, we will have the opportunity to vote for this guaranteed service project to ensure that tomorrow, when management and workers have obviously agreed on the practical working arrangements within the SNCB and within Infrabel, they will allow the rail to continue to drive, even in the circumstances of strikes which we hope are the least frequent because, I repeat, social dialogue is well present at the SNCB. It is important to maintain it because the SNCB is the women and men who do it, it is the workers who are on the stand and who allow us to operate the trains. Thank you again. I'm sorry I've been a little long. This debate is so. He's emotional.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u91	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I had hoped that at this hour we could debate a little more quietly, but look, things are different. This morning the traffic news called for instead of the E40 to drive, to park at a station and take a train. In fact, it is only a recent fact that the traffic reports call for an alternative means of transport instead of an alternative route. It is a little painful that there was an incident just then in the Brussels north-south link, which also disturbed rail traffic, but it shows that we must be able to count on our rail network, that we must be able to count on SNCB to keep our mobile. To this end, we need a high-performance railway company, continuous operation on the rail network and a constructive social environment. Unfortunately, too often we have had to see that the train was not an alternative to the car to go to Brussels or elsewhere, but that train users were pushed into the car. Rail strikes have consistently led to a loss of customers for SNCB and even more users of the car for commuting. It is therefore logical that we, as policy makers, as government, who spend billions on the railways every year, should not be served by strikes. We are outraged that sometimes for incomprehensible reasons or for reasons unrelated to the railway staff, the rail network is being shut down. That, mostly justified, has led to the draft law that we are going to adopt today. Colleagues, we really hope that we will never, or preferably as little as possible, have to apply this law. This is not because the proposed approach does not include good, reasonable legislation, but because the priority objective must be the maximum service provision. This calls for a constructive social climate with goodwill on the part of the workers, the chemists, and also on the part of the management, of Infrabel and SNCB, and of course also from the government. By the way, I am confident that the new SNCB-ceo, Mrs Dutordoir, is working hard on this constructive social environment, and we can only welcome that. It also means that unannounced, wild actions, and certainly actions that prevent other colleagues from working, are being tackled vigorously. The basis for this was laid almost ten years ago, at the initiative of then Minister Vervotte, with the protocol between government, employers and railway unions. During the first period of that Protocol, the number of wild strikes fell sharply. Then they came up again and again. The reason for this was that the final part of the protocol was applied far too little, in particular the use of the sanctions provided for for in respect of staff who did not comply with the protocol. Fortunately, since around 2014, the protocol has been applied consistently again, leading to significantly less unannounced actions. It is striking how these protocol agreements between the various partners, in a constructive social dialogue, have produced effective results, even today, ten years after the conclusion of these protocols. This observation, ladies and gentlemen, must make us all aware that, in the interests of travellers, cooperation between all partners is also necessary if the present law on continuity of services is to be applied successfully. Understand this, above all, as an appeal, including to the railway unions, to deal constructively with the draft law. Colleagues, as we have seen in recent years, but also just now, the issue of minimum services, guaranteed services or continuity of service has already led to several rather sharp ideological positions. For the singles, it is an unacceptable violation of the right to strike and a direct step towards chaos on the platforms. Others suggest it as if it was a strike for travellers and that the trade unions should be sidelined. Both performances are of course one-sided and not correct. What is on the table is a balanced proposal which, on the one hand, does not affect the right to strike and, on the other hand, must provide clarity for travellers so that they know which trains they will be able to count on on on a strike day or not. There is always a large group, often a majority, of the staff who want to work, even on strike days. I refer, for example, to the latest strike by the socialist trade union on 10 October last, when it became clear that a lot of trains had been run out after all. Unfortunately there were a lot of trains with empty seats, with relatively few passengers on board, because of the uncertainty in advance about which train and which train would not drive and because of the uncertainty whether there would be a train in the evening to get back home. It is therefore a good thing that the provisions of the draft law will inform SNCB and Infrabel in good time of the number of staff available. On this basis, an appropriate timetable can be drawn up, including clear communication to passengers. In that clear communication will be the key to success, a clear communication about which trains will and will not run. This clear communication can also avoid the so-called announced chaos. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support this draft law because it is a balanced proposal to organise an offer that is known in advance in the event of a strike, but we continue to hope that this law, this method, will have to be applied as little as possible. For Infrabel and SNCB, too, it will be a big deal to give concrete form to this process in a few days' time. Let that be an additional incentive for constructive social dialogue. The draft law provides for a consultation procedure in order to reach an agreement and not strike even after a strike has been promised. There is real commitment to the maximum service. Let that be the challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u92	Mr President, Minister, in 2007, ten years ago, Open Vld first put on the table the proposal on guaranteed services. We've been ten years. The legislative work has been a long track, thanks to the coat rack in the 2014 coalition agreement. It says: "The government will instruct both companies to draw up, after consultation with the social partners, a proposal which nevertheless provides for a guaranteed service in the event of a strike." The course has been successful, also thanks to the good work done in the technical working group, which was set up in the SNCB and Infrabel in 2015, with the task of examining which trains can run in the event of a strike. In May 2016, the Infrastructure Committee explained the results of that working group. Four scenarios were explained to us in a very clear and detailed way. I have to say that, following today's reactions, some colleagues seem to have forgotten that. The four scenarios clearly state that, depending on the number of staff available from SNCB and Infrabel, an adapted transport plan 1, 2, 3 or 4 can be implemented. It also mentions the number of seats, train kilometres, trains and train passengers who can travel back and forth. So a lot of preparatory work has been done, with a very clear and good result. In the committee, the Minister said at the start of his speech that he hoped that the guaranteed services should never be put into practice because this indicates the failure of social dialogue. We share that view. The Minister also said, and I would like to stress this here, that the starting point for this draft law is that a public service must be guaranteed continuously, regularly and without interruption. Today this is not the case with our trains. For Open Vld, this dossier contains four main lines of action. This draft puts an end to the imbalance between the right to strike on the one hand and the right to work on the other. It's not about a minimum service. Some continue to use that word, wrongly. No, it's about the maximum possible offer, with the willing staff. The passengers, who drive the train to work in the morning, must also know that they can return home in the evening. The draft clearly stipulates that information on the transport plan to be drawn up by line will be distributed through all channels no later than 24 hours before the start of the strike. As a result, passengers will know at least 24 hours in advance on which lines are being driven, so which train they can take or which train does not drive. A fourth main thrust for us is that with this design there remains a great responsibility for the management of SNCB and of Infrabel to use the willing staff as optimally as possible. The maximum use of high-capacity train equipment, e.g. double deckers, will be discussed. We have heard here today, as in committee, the opponents of this draft, who say that there will be chaos with the guaranteed services, that ordinary workers will be fooled, that this is a sham, a symbol file. Well, my answer to this is very brief. Apparently, they don't see the problem. They do not see the chaos that a train strike brings today; they do not see the frustration of the many train passengers, as Mr Van den Bergh said. So they do not want us to seek a solution. Once again, it is important to guarantee the right to strike, but also the right to work, which has been violated all too often in this country. It is important to restore the balance between the right to strike and the right to work. Finally, I would like to thank all the workers and perseverance in this dossier, in particular the Minister for his determination to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u93	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I could say that I will be brief at this late hour, but I cannot guarantee that because, quite frankly, at this hour I feel at my best. I have already said that this is a political debate, a substantive debate, and I have added that it is actually a sham debate. Why do I say that? Because you're actually telling the travelers something. It is a fake debate because people are being fooled. The groups of the N-VA and the Open Vld sometimes debate to be the most punitive, pour bomber le torse, but in these committee discussions I think it was mainly to be the strongest in selling hot air. Everyone has the right, of course. I said this is a file to put in the display case. Minister Bellot has received a cup. Why do I say that? When I was six, seven years old and started playing football, after a tournament I was always as proud as a watering machine that I came home with medals. I hung it in my room. When I realized later that I didn't actually have a football talent, those medals lost their value. So I would like to illustrate, Minister, that afterwards it will appear that the cup, the symbol file that you have received, was merely intended to be placed in a display case, but that nothing will change on the premises. The traveler who now thinks he has been helped with your trophy is subsequently fooled twice. I also said in committee that there is an agreement, but that we have still not seen a management agreement. When discussing the policy paper, you said that it is coming, but it is actually more essential for the operation of your company than this bogus dossier. I still have serious questions at the turn of CD&V in this file. I thought CD&V had some knowledge of the past. Mr Van den Bergh also referred to this. Minister Vervotte has always said that minimum service would not be provided because it does not work; she was against it. Perhaps you will not now say that Minister Vervotte was on the wrong track ten years ago. In fact, you defended her idea at the time, and we worked together on the protocol, which is suddenly being swept off the table today. As in committee, I would also like to quote Mr Bovy in this plenary session. You know him, I suspect you consider him to be a capable man who knows a thing or two about the track. So you will undoubtedly agree with Mr Bovy's quote: "If the minimum service is provided, it will be applied at most once and never again. This is not a guaranteed service but guaranteed chaos." Mr Foret, it was not a slip of the tongue when you mentioned guaranteed chaos. Even track connoisseurs who were active in the company have repeated this this summer. He continues with the question for which 50 reception staff are good if they do not have an engineer. And then the most important thing: "Travelers won't know if it's going to go well, don't know how many people can get on the train and who can get on the train first. I fear that this will be applied once and never again. Moreover, the scheme will have a counter-effect." He then refers to France where there are actually more strike days due to its introduction. I assume that you still think Mr Bovy is a very intelligent man and that these are wise words. That is why I absolutely cannot understand that the CD&V group in this one has made a turn. In committee and also during this discussion, everyone insisted on the importance of public transport. However, I would like to point out once again that the right hand only considers public transport to be important when there is a strike. It is said here that we should not make the link with savings. I have done so in committee, but in the end this government decided to save 2.1 billion, not on the basis of scientific figures, but simply because after the government negotiations there appeared to be a hole of 2.1 billion. The Minister at the time did not really know about these figures and has been mistaken on several occasions. Even Minister Bellot may have to acknowledge today that this figure of 2.1 billion is unrealistic. He announced this summer that an additional billion, a virtual billion, could be made additional debt to the railway companies themselves because the required savings of 2.1 billion are unrealistic. Otherwise we would not have to make an additional loan of 1 billion to do the service ourselves. The argument is always put forward that a strike costs a lot of money to the economy. I've been lawn dug again. Well, according to the VBO, a strike day costs 40 million euros. Let me reverse the argument. If a strike day costs EUR 40 million, then we must have the intellectual honesty to ask ourselves what public transport costs. That's the same reasoning. If one says that the economic damage is EUR 40 million for one day, that means that the other days that EUR 40 million is an input into the economy. If one calculates that on 365 days, then one comes to about 15 billion. So public transport has an added value for economic life in this country of 15 billion. Mr Foret, you said that the taxpayer's investment in public transport in the railways amounts to 2.7 billion. Well, that's a profitable investment in the economy. And it is still the core task of the government to stimulate the economy in this way. I come back to the absolute right to mobility. Again, why does the majority only claim that in the event of strikes? During last week's plenary session, punctuality figures showed that public transport from Ghent to Brussels at peak was only in 50% of cases on time. From Hasselt it was even worse. At that time, none of the majority stressed that. If you are talking about a right to mobility, that applies to me for all the days of the year. It's too bad they won't hear you then. I think it's a little paradoxical. Insufficient attention is paid to maximum services, not only for travellers but also in the context of the economic system, in order to avoid a standstill. Last week we had the debate: today, 8% of public transport journeys are being made. You have the ambition to increase to 15%, Minister. That means investing, not saving. I'll be back on the strike myself. I fully agree with you, Mr van den Bergh, that a strike must be avoided by social dialogue, because any strike means that social dialogue has failed, which we regret. In the past, we have also made it very clear that wild strikes are not possible for us. We have referred to the protocol on this subject. You have already mentioned the evaluation of the protocol. In our view, however, the present draft is absolutely not good because it is a violation of the right to strike, whether or not one likes to hear it, whether I should refer to the Infrabel lists or not. Just look at the opinions of the ILO and the Subcommittee on Freedom of Association, which say that the way in which strikes are restricted means that the right to strike is restricted. For the N-VA it should have gone much further, you say, Mrs De Coninck. In fact, you say that the SNCB and Infrabel are no longer allowed to strike tout court. That is a legitimate position, but you must say it clearly so that everyone who works in these companies knows what your vision of their functioning is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u94	Mr Geerts, you are well aware of our proposal to restrict the right to strike. We did indeed create a framework for some reduction of the right to strike. The Social Charter and the ILO teach us that this can be done. This can be done as legislators if it is motivated, because it is considered critical infrastructure or because the right to move is considered important. In our proposal we created a framework that allowed companies to recover workers. That is clearly a restriction on the right to strike, but the present bill does not restrict the right to strike. Again, no employee of the categories required to report is denied the right to strike. I would like you to show me who will not have the right to participate in a strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u95	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, I can only refer to the ILO's opinions on the overall, otherwise organised minimum services in other countries that have requested the opinions. They're consultable. As regards the current legislation, I have made it clear that the call in itself, I take the example of Infrabel, where the lists have also been made in previous actions, has an impact on the further career of the person concerned. When a 20-year-old or 25-year-old enters the company and participates in a trade union action that has further implications for the entire career, you cannot deny that these consequences represent a moral pressure on the individual staff member.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u96	Mr President, Mr Geerts, I challenge you to put the evidence on the table. It is quite unfair that you accuse the company of such practices. Mr President, throughout the debate I am somewhat disturbed by the criticism from the left, which always pretends to be concerned with the traveller. I haven't heard their solution for the traveller on a strike day. Mr Geerts, I would ask you whether you share the opinion of your French-speaking sister party, namely that no train is even clearer for the traveller than perhaps one train on two trains? What's your answer to the next one? We read today in the Latest News that the Brussels counters are threatening a strike at SNCB because they will be watched to start the work immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u97	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, have you ever heard me defend such matters in the past? I have not done that here in Parliament for the last 14 years. Our alternative is this. The debate has been going on for a long time. At the time, I discussed the issue with the Minister at the time on the basis of the various legislative proposals. I have said that the application of the protocol negotiated at that time and the effective sanctioning of wild strikes should make this possible. If it turns out that this leads me to a second element, namely that an agreement cannot be reached, then the protocol must be invoked and a procedure with a strike must be possible. However, my second point of criticism is that we have always argued in favour of, for example, a social mediator to find out exactly what is being discussed and stopped. Mrs De Coninck, if there is a halt in Catalonia, then your party applauds for that, while I think it is a political strike. However, you are reacting differently when our country is stopped, as is shown by examples from the past. It is then possible to discuss whether the strike is justified or not, for example in discussions on premiums or the non-implementation of wage agreements. There is also a form of social dialogue in a private company, and that should be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u98	Mr Geerts, may I suggest that you ask your colleague, Mrs De Coninck, whether she considers the Council of State to be a study office or a branch of the left-wing parties. I would like to draw his attention to the fact that it is indeed the Council of State which states that this is a disproportionate infringement of the right to strike and of collective action. I suggest you ask him the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u99	I would like to ask you that, but I actually planned that at the end of my speech. Don't you mind if I take a legal decision soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u100	We'll pretend it hasn't been said yet. Mr Devin has also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u101	Mr Geerts, you are in the gallery and I call on you. I hear colleague Inez De Coninck talking about those railway workers on strike who are constantly preventing some from going to work. I don't know if you know the numbers. I take you to burn: how many strike days have there been in the SNCB for the past year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u102	There's been a break in work for the last 14 months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u103	Mrs. De Coninck?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u104	Mr Geerts, you referred to the protocol agreement that the trade unions themselves have negotiated and signed, but unfortunately they do not comply. That protocol agreement is for wild strikes. How would you organise an announced strike in front of the travellers? I still haven't received an answer to that. Are you just gonna say to the traveler: chaos?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u105	No. What happened to the protocol? You should also know who concluded the protocol agreement. The aim was to establish a social dialogue system with the employer, the companies and the recognised trade unions. The intention was to sit and negotiate with the recognised trade unions, the steering committee, the national and regional joint committees covered by the protocol. What happened at some point? You may have more contact with these people than I do. The corporatist unions did not at any time feel involved in the way the consultation was structured, with recognised trade unions or organisations represented in the NAR. In the end, the protocol agreement went wrong there because the ASTB, the OVS and so on did not want to associate themselves. You're always talking about traditional trade unions. Shall we see which wild strikes come from which trade unions? Have you done that analysis yet? That is exactly my reasoning on how to come up with a false solution. By trade unions, you mean the socialist trade unions anyway. You have to be honest in that. I have close contacts with ACOD, but I also see people from Transcom. I see the Dutch wings, perhaps even more in this dossier than Mr Van den Bergh, because there was no agreement with him. When I see how these organisations are working every day to provide a negotiated solution to smaller conflicts, and prove that they are people of good will, I can only conclude that you are targeting the wrong people with the text. That is why I asked you if you were aware that it was the corporatist trade unions such as OVS and ASTB who were responsible for the wild strikes. Allow me to explain my next argument, still in relation to the social dialogue. I fear that social dialogue will be torpedoed by legislation such as that proposed here. A strike notice must be submitted eight days in advance and the employer will have three days to start an ultimate consultation. The workers have three days to declare their willingness to strike. What do we really see, even at the most recent strike? Even though consultations are possible, as has now been included in the new legislation, Infrabel..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm not gonna suck that out of my mind. Now, the legislator decides to introduce a new consultation period, but the employer does not come there and takes a unilateral application to the court. My fear is that we will now record more strikes than in the old system, because the consultation modules are being undermined. That's too bad. I see that there are amendments concerning social mediators. It is true that mediators should be used in a regular procedure in accordance with a protocol. But do you remember that two years ago around the Christmas period the government had not called on Minister Kris Peeters to intercede? Where's the logic of the whole system? One has to be a little consistent. My third point, therefore, is that workers in the workplace are being set up against each other with the question of who will and who will not stop. Moreover, the new text does not provide a solution for the traveller. Either the scheme will not work and then it will lead to chaos and unsafe situations. Either it will work as in France and there will only drive trains every two hours between Bordeaux and Paris, but not in the urban area. When one looks at the density of our train network, one finds that the radars are completely different. It might work, but there will be more strikes. Who's the victim of that windowdressing? These are the 900 000 commuters who take the train every day. Go ahead and explain to the employer how this will be organised, as will the 32 000 people working on the railways today. I have raised a number of practical concerns in committee. Other colleagues have already wondered which trains and which trains will not run. It is screened with willingness and the fact that a line manager is appointed. In reality, the large axes will be operated. One will get from Antwerp to Brussels, if one is lucky, but from Heist-op-den-Berg one will probably not get to Antwerp or Brussels. I think that is a very large form of inequality. Residents of rural areas will not be served by this. I shall then come to the responsibility of the train driver. Today, the railway codex stipulates that a train driver must be able to get out of his steering station at all times. It'll work on a separate locomotive. However, if an engine is stuffed, these safety regulations will not be met today, because that driver will not be able to get out of it. Do you remember the incident in Deinze last summer? There were so many people on the train that passengers fainted. I asked about the capacity at the time. The answer was that the train attendant should assess that. An individual train guide on the ground, not the bosses, who are in Brussels, will have to decide how many passengers are allowed on the train. We assume there will be fewer trains. People think there are trains and will go to the platform, but there is less capacity. Even today, when a train arrives in a shortened composition, for example, there is misery. Even in Leuven where there are several trains, a traveler does not get on the train. The responsibility for this is now being placed on the hands of an individual train attendant. The result may be that this man or woman says that he or she will do so once, but absolutely not a second time. Overcrowded platforms, does that do the traveller a service? What about the safety of the person responsible? Don't you expect me to do absolutely the opposite... more aggression against who then works, when the platform is full and passengers are not allowed on the train? Mrs Grovonius referred to the legal arguments. I can only read the opinions of the Council of State. Those opinions are known to everyone who was present on the committee. They have been discussed and part of it has been met in the final design, but not to another part. I am not saying that there is a problem because there is a difference in the definition of categories of staff according to whether or not they are on the list, and because of a difference in the duration of time for reservations about whether or not they are willing to work. Yes, those are the comments of the Council of State. Another legal element is the railway codex, which we approved in Parliament, or the law of 30 August 2013 on passenger transport requirements for the line knowledge of train drivers and train drivers and in terms of safety management system. I regret that the safety aspect has not been sufficiently highlighted here. As a result of the transposition of the European Directive 402/2013, any change in the supply of trains must be preceded by a risk analysis. We have had the four scenarios, but no one knows which train could drive. In fact, I should now like to ask Mr Ducarme if he is aware of the tasks that DVIS is carrying out in the context of a safety management system. I will not do that, I will put the question in writing so that he can prepare himself. That, however, is the essence. It is therefore compulsory to carry out a risk analysis. Will risk analysis be carried out? Does the majority see how that will happen? In short, who will take responsibility for emergencies and incidents? As far as I am concerned, this is effectively a bogus legislation. You're not doing the travellers any favors. You don't serve the staff anymore. You've only thought of your own trophy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every day our country records new records in terms of bottling and congestion. And all this at the time of COP 23 discussions on global warming. That is to say, the debate we have today on the rail, which is a fundamental issue in terms of mobility, is a major political issue. It is symptomatic that the first text since this Parliament, in three years, the first important text concerning SNCB is not its management contract, nor its multi-year investment plan, nor are it public investment measures, as our Prime Minister calls for, but it is this text on the continuous service of SNCB. It is quite remarkable to see that there is interest in this, because the SNCB requires a political debate that never takes place. And this political debate, the majority chose to do so on this. Mrs. Inez De Coninck anticipated my intervention. I had in mind the idea of a trophy, which had to be ripped off. Some in other countries use other trophies. Here, it's a paper trophy. What are you going to do with it? Put it in a window next to the Catalan flag? But what will this give for mobility? This text, dear friends of the majority, is a pretext. It is a question of showing, ideologically, that you have settled the matter. What's going to happen tomorrow? It is not only the opposition that questions itself. You yourself, if you are sincere, are you sure this will work? I'm sure you're not going to sleep well. But the questions you're going to ask yourself don't matter today. You want your trophy, you'll show it, broadcast it, maybe sleep with it. Will this save mobility? Will this solve the problems of traffic jams? Will this solve the political question, which you have not resolved, of mobility in our country, of the investments to be made? You'll go home and tell yourself that you did the job: you finally have this fundamental text for SNCB. I congratulate you. This work has not been very significant. This obviously took work from the minister who preceded you, since we are still three years later. Tomorrow, how will this service, called and presented not as a minimum but as guaranteed and whose effectiveness cannot be confirmed today, be implemented in practice? I sum up Mr. Hedebouw's thought, which is a little sophisticated today; the cameras are gone so it becomes more subtle. It's not mean, never! Just a good analysis. It is well known that the problems will arise when it is implemented in practice by HR Rail. Beyond your text, minister, they will have fun! It is true, as other colleagues have said, that in some categories of staff at SNCB, as in the case of signal booths, 65% of the staff is required. Underneath, it doesn't work. Listen carefully, Mrs. Fonck, these are the signal booths! Ms Vervotte said in 2008, if I'm not mistaken - it's far away the CD&V ministers, it's crazy how fast it goes! – 65% of staff was required to provide a minimum of services. She had not specified minimum service. A whole series of questions will arise. Will safety necessarily be guaranteed in relation to an influx of travellers to whom we are going to say that everything is ready, that the government is watching and thinking about them by guaranteeing them a train? How will this happen at the Guillemins station or at other stations? Won't we have a "Deinze effect"? Because there will have been a fantastic day in the North Sea and an influx of travellers will have caused a proven chaos on that occasion? You can't guarantee that! It is therefore safety problems, comfort problems, guarantee problems that one can go to work by taking the train. But will there be a train back? Is that planned or not? Many such questions arise. These questions make me say that you want to be friendly to travellers by telling them good news. But personally, this is false good news for travellers. The problems that may arise will be innumerable. Behind this, what you are also tainting is a real social dialogue at SNCB, which really needs it. Railway workers and all staff must know that they are included in a collective project to ensure mobility and resolve politically fundamental issues for all in this country. That is the real challenge, and that is what you are calling into question. A real social dialogue is the best antidote to the strike. This is how one can ensure a permanent and quality duration in the work performed. This work then has a meaning, it is oriented. It is a meaning that can be understood by all staff. That is what Mrs Dutordoir told us. She made a magnificent intervention in committee. Great ambition: the customer, the traveller at the heart of SNCB's vision. It's new, it's completely new. But is there the means? Is this one of the means? I don't think so. Beyond that, the role of social conciliation at SNCB has been much discussed in committee. Mrs Fonck has tabled one or the other amendment on this subject, but it has not yet been resolved. Today, in the forms specified by law, there is notice of strike. The social conciliator can act, it depends on Mr Kris Peeters. When one of the partners refuses to come to the table, there is no social reconciliation. It's quite extraordinary. We have been a few in committee to say that this is the first thing to do. Second, you are not going to settle spontaneous or wild strikes. This isn't gonna fix anything. But we know that it is often one of the ways to react, it is intuitive. In addition, in order to ensure a little more permanently the capacity to have other modes of action, we have tabled an amendment in committee which we will resubmit here. This is the possibility of doing another form of strike: the pay strike. Travellers are not penalized and workers can choose. We maintain in our project the traditional ability to strike but there is also this strike of payment with the guarantee to protect – in insurance – all those who go to work, especially those who use the train – and who should be in number even more. This text is a pretext. You wanted a trophy, you didn't want to solve the question of mobility in this country. We shall vote positively at least once on our amendment. For the rest, we will refuse your text because it is a pretext that does not guarantee anything. Apart from government solidarity, which may be guaranteed with this text, it is absolutely not going to guarantee the essential objective of sustainable mobility in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u107	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this matter, my tone will be different from that used by other opposition stakeholders – even if I do not fully agree with the majority's opinion. As you know, since this is not the first time we have talked about it, we are in favour of setting up a minimum service, but not as a question of the right to strike. This is not just any sector. In addition, the tags presented here are expressly and clearly provided for by international references. It is true that the right to strike is fundamental, whether through the European Social Charter or the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union or the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. However, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if I say that I do not agree with your point of view, it is because you are saying that the minimum service clearly calls into question the right to strike. However, this is not an absolute right. No! And it is not I who say it; again, I am not in the majority. Who? This is the International Labour Organization. Moreover, this consideration is also reflected in the European Social Charter. We have talked about foreign countries, but the reality is that this minimum service exists at home in twelve sectors – and this is not recent. This was first in 1949, and the application of this principle in the sectors concerned, unlike your government project, has always been the subject of an agreement between the social partners. Similarly, it was each time sunk in regulatory texts. I would like to welcome here the sense of responsibility of the trade unions, since this minimum service in 12 sectors is working well. I know him personally in the hospital world. In the present case, it must be recognised that the sense of responsibility and professional awareness of the actors concerned really allow a balance to be struck between this right to strike, which is not absolute, and other equally fundamental rights: for example, that of being cared for and having the guarantee of continuity of care. To return to mobility, it is necessary to balance the right to strike with the right to go to work, the right for students to go to school and, more generally, to move. As you know, I have tabled a bill, attached to the government's review of this bill. This proposal respects all the parameters of the European Social Charter and the International Labour Organisation and aims to guarantee certain public benefits in the event of a strike in the public sector. Mr President, today I shall disassociate my proposal. It will not be voted on, but since it is aimed at a wider sector than mobility, I do not despair that we can still move forward. If I join the government in its desire to set up a minimum service, I cannot, however, support this project. Three main reasons justify my position. The first of these is fundamental: the best strike is an avoided strike. We have to make every effort to do that. That aspect of things is not covered by your bill, minister. Why didn't you take the opportunity to give yourself another chance to avoid the strike? I have proposed that a mandatory procedure should be laid down in the law for the intervention of a social conciliator as soon as notice of strike is given. Interventions by social conciliators are regular in Belgium. Their success rate is 70%. It's huge. However, it is particular that at the public sector level they are neglected when they are frequently used in the private sector. It would have been essential to foresee it. It's a missed opportunity. Every time a social conciliator can prevent a strike, it's in the interests of commuters. What they want is above all to avoid a strike and not to ensure a minimum service. Minister, in committee, you tried to explain why you didn't want it. You didn't convince me, especially since I did another check. It turns out that it is not fair to say, as you do, that the social conciliator can always intervene. The facts show that any party can refuse the intervention of the social conciliator. If we do not break into the law this additional possibility by making a lever available to commuters, we have no chance, or at least much less chance, once notice is given, that the strike is avoided. That's unfortunate. That is the main grievance I have on your bill. The second point that concerns me is that in committee you were unable to give us guarantees of the efficiency of the system you have chosen for commuters. Minister, we have hardly heard you on this issue. The SNCB has come to show us its four scripts. I am still curious to see, minister, who will decide in practice who, among the commuters, will be able to get on the train or not. In peak time, the majority of the main lines are served by at least three trains per hour. With a little luck, you will be able to put one in place with the minimum service. That would be good already. But in practice, commuters, who have been warned that there will be trains, are likely to be largely overcrowded. It should also be noted that there are limits not to be exceeded in trains for safety reasons. You know that perfectly well. We can't, even by pressing them all like sardines, get them in. First, there will be no room; but in addition, the maximum mass will be exceeded. Many commuters are at risk of staying on the wharf. Minister, this is obviously your responsibility. It is not the legislator who will provide for the operationalization of a minimum service. This is your ministerial responsibility. On that, we didn't hear you. I am all the more concerned that the SNCB and Infrabel answer this question "that we will see the day when there will be a strike". These companies don't know how this will happen. It's still upbuilding. It's your full responsibility. We will see how things will be operationalized if a strike occurs and if you set up a service called "minimum and guaranteed". Finally, the third reason why I am not joining you in your project is that it provides for certain particularly outlying sanctions. The best example is that of a worker who declared a strike three days in advance, as the procedure requires. Finally, he came to work on strike day. He shall be punished in respect of his remuneration. I can hear it, since we obviously couldn't predict that he would be there and that we won't be able to get him to work at the last minute. He's not paid. I can follow the logic. On the other hand, I find it aberrant to provide for a doubling of the financial penalty by disciplinary sanction, whereas after weighing the pros and cons, he still comes to work. This sanction makes no sense. That's an example. There are others. But on this point, we did not follow you. Colleagues, in committee, we abstained on this bill. We have re-tabled the amendments, one of which, in my view, is the most important one, and which aims to bring into force the compulsory intervention of the social conciliator once notice has been given. For the rest, in the absence of progress in this area, we will not be able to support the bill under consideration. We will therefore abstain. Finally, Mr President, like other colleagues, I should like to deplore the oblivion of commuters' daily lives in our debates. Yet too many commuters are being mistreated, especially during peak hours; here I am thinking of delays, of trains being removed. The worst part of this story is that we've already been promised many times. We were told that the situation was going to improve thanks to the line managers. We were promised that progress would be made on punctuality, especially during peak hours, that fewer trains would be removed, that infrastructure would follow in order to be able to take on the planned offer for commuters. But these promises have not been fulfilled. On a daily basis, too many commuters are in great difficulty. The government made the choice of particularly important savings with transport plans that did not bring the added value that had been promised, which sometimes even led to significant declines in transport from the regions to Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of our discussions, we should have devoted all our energy to advancing the daily lives of commuters. It is this daily that is the great forgotten of tonight's debates. You will understand that we will abstain from voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u108	Mr President, I would not like to speak for too long in a debate that has been quite exciting. For more than an hour, I have been trying to understand the specific purpose of the bill. To hear several speakers from the majority, there is an agreement. It's not a minimum service. It's not a guaranteed service. Certainly not in the sense of the International Labour Organization. The title of the bill is "a bill on the continuity of the service of the railway transport of persons in the event of a strike". Continuity of service! I return to the developments of the bill on page 11. What does the editor of the developments say? Do you think there is continuity of service? What a nenni! "The bill is also not intended to ensure continuity. But continuity is rather the principle behind it." It's the entrance to the tunnel. "In fact, even if the establishment of a minimum service and the system provided for in the bill both pursue the same general and abstract objective, namely the continuity of public service, an important distinction must be made." It is one thing to guarantee continuity by imposing a minimum service. It would have been manly! Another is to organise continuity by informing each other of the numbers available in the event of a strike, without any guarantee of service being provided. No minimum service! No service guaranteed! No continuity of service! No warranty of service! What is ultimately left of it? It's a sketch you're giving us, Minister! This is not a bill. For those who have still not understood, I repeat another passage of your development which is magnificent, if there is any doubt: "Assimilation with a minimum service system would also be to apply to the sui generis system set up standards drawn from a regime which is foreign to it, without regard to the specificities of this sui generis system – I dare hope that you follow, Minister – who, if it does not aim to provide a minimum service – we begin to understand it – also does not aim to restrict the right to strike beyond a mere declaration of intention". That's wonderful! I believe that Richard Miller must give us an exegesis of this text from a great literature. I who read the writings of our friend Richard Miller, Is there still a European literature?, an excellent book that I recommend to you, I have just given you an extract of what is not a train but what is perhaps a literature on trial. Trier of jokes but frankly said, when we seek to identify the object that is submitted to us, there is something to lose. Minister, more seriously now, you know, this bill reminds me of what was announced by the majority: the fight against unemployment. Scandalous! Home visits. This was a policy debate. I remember. We were going to see what we were going to see. Finally, we were going to give ourselves the means to combat real social fraud. Every year, I ask a written parliamentary question about the outcome. Schnoll almost, if you will allow me the expression a little direct and vulgar because it was purely theory. It was pure bodybuilding. This is the same thing. You are busy making honest citizens believe that there will be a guaranteed minimum service. I am prepared to talk about it, but let us be clear that there is no guaranteed minimum service only if there is an agreement between the social partners. You can try all the other experiments, there will never be conclusive results. When Ms. Fonck says that there are guaranteed minimum services in a number of public services, there are two ways. It's simple: either it's the agreement between partners, or it's the requisition. Everything else, you forget. We have to speak frankly. We must not try to deceive people but say here that you are going to ensure the continuity of a service – at last, we have seen all the entanglements of services – to simply find that in the end, there may not be enough staff. And we're not talking about what has been said, namely that any train driver can't be put on any line because he has a specific approval for lines for which he has completed his training and so on. In other words, before finding staff to take on the service, good luck! The same applies to certain categories of attendants who cannot always change language regions, etc. So you're making it look like an illusion, like a glamour! You are deceiving public opinion with a measure of the order of the false symbol, not even the honorable symbol, the false symbol! It remains to be hoped, Mr Minister, that at the very least, on strike days, trains will be maintained, so that on the days when they are to be in operation, they will be able to drive without incident and that real service will be provided to citizens and users.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u109	Mr President, our group is in favour of minimum rail services. As the previous speaker has read out the relevant passages as a true stand-up comedian, this draft law does not provide at all an insured minimum service. For us, this could go further. Train transport is important, even of public order. There, claims to ensure minimum service provision should certainly be made. That was stated in the original N-VA proposal, but unfortunately it is not reflected in the draft law. For this, you are entirely dependent on the voluntary rise of those who do not feel the need to stop. Whether that will work in practice remains to be seen. On the positive side, passengers will be better informed. I do have another thought that has not yet been addressed in the discussions today. It did happen on the committee. I have read the committee report carefully. Several speakers have mentioned the fact that the willingness to strike in the south of the country is slightly greater than on the Flemish side. We have seen enough examples of this in the past. In practice, today, in the current situation, the people who do want to work are employed on the lines on which they usually drive. The offer for the Flemish passengers at such strikes is greater than the offer in Wallonia, where in the event of strikes, rail transport is almost completely flat. A number of committee members have rightly pointed out that it is important to base the offer on the number of employees per line or per region and that it is important not to consider the case in a national perspective. Surely it cannot be the intention for the Flemish travellers to make the situation worse by making sure that the volunteers who show up must be used to ensure a minimum level of service throughout the country and thus that the Flemish workers must guarantee the Walloon train offer? There is a good chance that this will be the case in practice. In order to respond to this concern, which was raised in committee by Mrs De Coninck, Mr Geerts and Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, we have drawn up an amendment to that effect, which is fully in line with it. If you do not take account of this distortion, this draft law will remain very Community-wide. I thought that there was a Community standstill and that it was not the intention to introduce an additional Community distortion. The aim of our amendment is to eliminate the perverse effects of the draft law to the detriment of the Flemish commuters by including in the law that the train supply in the event of strikes should be adjusted by SNCB per region in proportion to the number of employees per language group and per region. I share the concerns expressed by several parties during the committee discussions and I am, of course, counting on their support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u110	Minister, you will not be surprised to learn that we are not at all enthusiastic about the idea of voting on the bill before us today. We still don't know how to interpret it. During the work of the committee, you tried to make us understand one thing: it is not a minimum service. You put that phrase in all the sauces. At the time of the State of the Union, the Prime Minister was proud to mention the introduction of a minimum rail service. This is the only time he was applauded on the opposition benches. We woke up during the Prime Minister's speech. Whether or not it is a minimum service is not clear to me, but what is clear is that most railway workers want maximum service. They live it every day. The minimum service is you who organize it by removing three billion endowments, 700 km of railway, small railway stations and by reducing the opening hours of the windows more and more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u111	I am speaking to those who have pointed out the case of the closure of railway lines: quote me a single line that we have deleted! We have removed 100 metres of lines during this legislature. Give me one line! As for the three billion, errors in the interpretation of arithmetic have occurred in the past and have been contagious in many people. You always quote that figure of three billion. Bring me the proof, too! I have kept repeating that the effort to be made on this legislature was 1.2 billion on investment and exploitation. The State decides to borrow a billion to make it available to the SNCB group to invest. Do the math! If you can't, I'll send you back to second-grade arithmetic books.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u112	Mr Minister, I propose that in terms of arithmetic, the MR should not play too high, because it has months to catch up. If we got the numbers wrong, it's not our party... The deleted lines cover 18 years and this continues. Mr. Miller, you were in the government, weren't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u113	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u114	And second, for the three billions, it's easy: you cut billions and then you borrow a billion more. Do you deny that staffing is decreasing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u115	The allocation has decreased by $1.2 billion and a billion investment has been added. But the allocation of $1.2 billion is divided into investment and operating allocations. And I'm even going to cut off another duck's leg, the one at the stations. We keep hearing that we're closing stations. How many stations have been opened since 2014, Mr. Hedebouw?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u116	The question here is that you are reducing the cost of SNCB. Okay? Station closures, we live in Hainaut, we live in Liège. They're window closures. No breakpoints.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u117	Now I agree! But, Mr. Hedebouw, is it reasonable to keep an afternoon window open at stations where the ticket counter sells two tickets?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u118	We are at the heart of the debate here on what public service we want. The difference between you and me, minister, is that all these commuters live day by day the fact that the service is not guaranteed to them, all these people find themselves with this punctuality that is not at the point... Do you see these paintings filled with red, when you arrive in the morning: 23 minutes, 22 minutes, 15 minutes, 16 minutes? And that is because there is not enough investment. This is the substantive debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u119	I invite you to read the reports prepared by Infrabel and SNCB on the reasons why trains are not punctual. There are internal responsibilities and I think the Infrastructure Committee invited the two CEOs to come and explain because, despite the designation of line managers, the situation is not improving. In management contracts, the variable remuneration of these people will be directly related to punctuality. As of September, external events accounted for more than 50 per cent of punctuality violations. You saw today's incident, there were two majors. Major incidents, every two days. It may be a problem that needs to be addressed at another level. In fact, internal to SNCB and Infrabel, how can we accept that 20% of the first morning trains leave late? Do you accept that? You think it's normal for the first train to leave late? In this enterprise, the culture of the traveller-oriented company must be changed. But this will not happen in a day! If punctuality is such today, it is the result of a series of things. I want to put in place the foundations of a customer-oriented policy and more towards the rest. It is necessary to get rid of subsidiaries whose trade is very far from SNCB. It is necessary to refocus the company on the core of its business, i.e. only the traveller, with the three values: safety, punctuality and communication. Everything else has to stay on the side. I meet workers who still work today according to principles of circular charges established in the 1960s! It's like you're working with a typewriter today while everyone's working with a computer. We need to move this business forward. The representatives of the trade unions I meet are very often aware of the need to make it evolve. It is in this logic that we register ourselves. I hear people say that there is no management contract, no investment plan, no transport! I would point out that there is one in 2017, that there are more than 5.1% trains, that the management contract and the investment plan will be presented to you soon. You'll consult them. I was asked to consult with the Regions. This concertation leads me to add four months to the deposit of investment projects. [[Brouhaha!]] When you consult the management plan and the investment plan, you will find that I did not "copy-paste"! I have produced documents that will serve as a basis for ensuring that, in 2023, SNCB will be the company which, by simple protocol, will continue its public service mission when you know all the temptations that are required everywhere in Europe! It is this government which has asked with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Austria to give the possibility to historical companies to maintain the performance of their public service mission but with modernised companies. It is in this scheme that I have entered, it will take time but it is fundamental. These are documents that will reshape SNCB's policy to prepare it for the 2023 deadline and thus ensure that, for the next ten years, this public undertaking, which must be modernised, will always remain public in this form and not in another.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u120	One more moment, Mr. Hedebouw, Mrs. Grovonius wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u121	Mr President, since the minister invites us to look at the figures on punctuality and the causes of delays, I will tell him that I am doing so. And what do I see on page 18 of last July's Infrabel report? It states that the main cause of the delays is not what you mentioned at the moment, Minister - for example, an accident in person. No, no! SNCB equipment is designated: 28.6% of the causes of delay. I will stop there, because we will have the opportunity to discuss it again during the discussion of the policy note, but that was to be recalled. Since you're inviting us to look at the encrypted data, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u122	Minister, what really struck me was that you spoke for eleven or twelve minutes about your plans for the future of SNCB. But at no time did you mention the railwaymen. You have spoken of directive and modernisation, but never - in twelve minutes of response - of all those people who operate the public service. That's significant, because the question that drives us is... [[Brouhahaha]] We're nervous at MR... and more than we think. The question of the minimum service that we are dealing with today is evidence of an attack on a collective right. In my view, the very essence of the law before us today is an individualization of the right to strike. However, the acquis of its collective character is of a historical nature for strike movements, since it establishes an imbalance in society, in companies. Individuals find themselves faced with a hierarchy - whether private or public - but do not have the same rights as it is. Let's take an example. When political power decides to have public servants work until the age of 67, what are their rights and means of action to make their disagreement heard? None of you have been elected with a program that extends the work to 67 years. No one voted for you to enforce this law. No railway company voted for you to have early pensions abolished. The democratic legitimacy of this pension reform is null and void. How can a part of the population express its resistance to these measures in a way other than the ballot box? The world of work does so through collective action. Not individual. That would be a hundred years back. It is the collective's acquis to be able to resist. I believe that there is a significant danger when it comes to minimum service because the public service of railways is important, such as that of hospitals. It is clear that the world of work has a sense of responsibility. Some areas obviously need to have a guaranteed service. Hospitals, that's clear. Even in the private sector, a blast furnace will always turn. The steelmakers know very well that if a blast furnace is not maintained during a strike, it is destroyed. But if we accept that transport is part of this logic, where is it going to stop? What is the next step? Public service counters? We have a real problem, ladies and gentlemen, because we want to extend the attack to other sectors. That's disturbing. In concrete terms, the question of the practical organisation of this minimum service raises the question of who will be able to take the train. One is going to announce in advance which trains will run. For example, out of the six trains during rush hour in Antwerp-Central it will be decided which two will run, and so all Antwerpers who want to go to Brussels will jump on those two trains. So how are we going to decide who gets to take that train? Are they the strongest or the smallest, who gets on that train? That is a very practical question to which we have not been given an answer, unless it is based on the logic that there will no longer be any withdrawal, but that cannot be done. In this sense, there is a practical contradiction which will cause us serious security problems. It also seems to us important to say that no hearing has been allowed in the committee. Some associations, even commuters, do not rejoice in this type of measure. But we preferred not to allow them to come and speak in parliament. That's a shame! This project would have merited hearings and not just with trade union organisations. In any case, we could have expanded them. The minister asked: is there a threat to someone's right to strike? I think so. The railwayman who must announce three days before the strike if he is available or not, what is his right two days before the strike? What is his right one day before the strike? What is his right an hour before the strike to strike anyway? Zero! That is the problem! What happens in a social conflict? The trade union organisations will file a strike notice for, for example, Mondays. From Friday onwards, a political debate begins. The workers will indicate Friday that they may not want to strike. They sign up to work on Mondays. I'm writing a fiction script. On Saturday, the political debate on this strike begins. On Saturday, a Liberal minister would say: "I don't give a damn about the demands of the workers. I'm on my way. I'm not listening!" A little fiction but not so much, it happens more and more. "I'm not listening. All these workers will work two more years." The same worker, Minister, on Saturdays, will no longer be able to decide to strike. Yes, it's an infringement of the right to strike. That is the problem. Today we are putting pressure on all these workers. We are putting pressure on ourselves and we are no longer allowing this expression of the right to strike. You also address the issue of pickets. I would like to be very clear about this: there is a 2011 judgment of the European Social Rights Committee which states that strike stakes should only be banned in the event of violence. They must be allowed at all other times. The present design does not offer that guarantee. That is the problem, because strike planes are guaranteed by that judgment and it is absolutely not legal to oppose it and attack the strike planes. You will therefore have understood, Mr Minister, that, like the workers, my group is not in favour of setting up this attack on the right to strike. It's a good war. You are not the Liberal Prime Minister to do so. At one time, in England, Mrs Thatcher had also attacked trade unions particularly in the public service because, in our deindustrialised society, railways are still one of the strong sectors of the trade union movement, a sector where workers are not individualised, a sector where workers are not afraid to be directly laid off, as is the case, for example, in SMEs. I have hundreds of testimonies from people who don't dare strike when they're not happy. But they are afraid of having a problem with their boss, of being no longer hired, of not being able to pursue their career in the company that employs them if they strike. We can therefore see that today there is no democracy in companies. Human rights stop there. Dozens of workers were punished for strikes. I'm not even talking about the money you lose when you strike. So we don't strike for pleasure. But in large companies, there is still a balance of forces that allows the democratic right to say that we do not agree with the minister and that we decide to stop working. Through the bill under consideration, it is this report that you want to individualize by putting pressure and atomizing the social body that is that of the railwaymen. This is not the right way to work, minister. You would have done much better to organize a real dialogue. Such a dialogue did not take place either within the company or in the House, since it was not even allowed to hold hearings. You leave a lot of details that fall under the sole decision of the railway management. Who's gonna have to work? How? And you take the side of driving only for the employer by forgetting the employees. Minister, in order to run a company like the railways, you have to have the confidence of all employees who have incredible schedules. They start working at 2:00 a.m., 2:30 a.m., 3:00 a.m. They can finish at 10:00 p.m. They must be very flexible. In my opinion, minister, this bill is not a good thing. I really hope that, in the years to come, the social power relationship will recover, as has been the case in the last century, in order to search for anti-social laws and to push you back. Perhaps not in an hour, in a week or in a month, but I can assure you, colleagues on the right, that the workers' movement will not be allowed to go, and that it will recover the democratic strike rights that you have taken from it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u123	Colleagues, I would like this law to never serve. I have heard a number of groups here, particularly on the left side of the House, talking about workers and their legitimate rights. The right to strike is an individual right and nothing will prevent a recognized trade union organization from filing a strike notice in their collective name. But I'm also thinking about other workers and students. To those 850,000 people who take the train on a daily basis to go to work or school and return. These people may not be able to take the train because of a strike. On the other hand, the participation rate in strikes, if I refer to May and June 2016, ranged from 0.5 to 20%. This represents a number of people between 0.5 per cent of the 32 000 workers and 20 per cent of them, i.e. 6 000 workers, taking 850,000 others hostage during the day. Are those who want to defend the right of workers to go to work and students to go to school aware that by not accepting the principle of continuous service, they take 850,000 people hostage during the day? I would like to draw attention to this point. Secondly, polls were conducted by the press, that is, not by us. They may have 10 or 12,000 participants. These show that the desire for continuity of service in the public rail service varies between 62 and 72%. You can read it in all the daily newspapers that conducted such surveys. The proposal is based on the principle that a public service must be provided on a continuous, regular and uninterrupted basis. This principle must remain applicable in the event of a strike while respecting the right to strike, which is an individual right. This right to strike must remain free and free, without pressure of any kind. It is this principle that is sunk here. Mr. Hedebouw referred to the plea for continuity of service. What is the principle that we stand for in this bill? It is not to obstruct the strike but it is to identify those who are available on strike days and to organize a transport service taking into account the staff available by not derogating in any way from the Rail Code which ensures the principles of safety of rail transport. This bill will in no way derogate from the usual safety rules. This bill will allow SNCB and Infrabel to provide a transportation plan based on available workers. If I took the October 10 strike or the May 2016 strike, there were trains running but without it being announced to people. It was already known the previous day which trains could operate but could not be structured. People are therefore uncertain: they can leave with a train in the morning but they are not sure that they will be able to return. The aim here is to adapt a transport plan taking into account the volume of staff that will be available, no more or less. Of course, there is a departure from the principle of minimum service in the so-called sensitive sectors recognized by the ILO. Why? In these areas, the minimum service provides for requisition and we absolutely do not want to resort to requisition. The project does not provide for this. You will have noticed that the social dialogue does not work so badly, since between May-June 2016 and October 2017, there was no half-day strike at SNCB. According to one newspaper, it had not happened for fifty years. And I applaud the fact that there was no strike for 15 months, because SNCB plays a vital role in our country. We cannot afford the luxury of having days of strike, long-term strikes or even a one-day strike in our country. As regards the opinions of the Council of State, they have been dealt with. We discussed it in committee, I will not go back to it. Mr Cheron states that this is the first act to be taken. But the first act was to validate the 2017 transport plan in the Council of Ministers. The opposition keeps telling me about restrictions, savings, etc. However, this SNCB transport plan adds 5.1 % of rail supply. That had not been done in 20 years. This did not prevent us from putting in 78 additional trains, which Infrabel and SNCB are recruiting nearly 2,000 new workers during this year, or from moving this company towards a higher quality of public service. We bought equipment at the end of 2015 for 1.3 billion. It is true, however, that today some of the very foundations of transport quality are inadequate and must be worked on. You're inciting the pay strike. I explained to you that, legally, a person who does not hold a transport document is not covered by insurance in the event of an incident. You're telling me that the law can fix these things. No, the law can't!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u124	I don't know why we're doing committee work. The amendment itself provides for what you are explaining, i.e. insurance, etc. I have re-explained this to you in committee. Some of us here can testify to that. I'm not gonna get them on the stand because it's too late. Minister, I don't understand why you're going back to trial on a subject we've been discussing. I know you can be in good faith. If you don't like the proposal, then say you don't agree. But coming with bad arguments to which we have already answered is quite unbearable. I say it calmly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u125	Mr Cheron, in the present state of law, you cannot derogate from the payment of a security of...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u126	That is why we are proposing to change the law, minister, and to make an amendment. That's why we're in parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u127	Mrs Fonck, as far as the conciliator is concerned, our country has basically three systems: the public services system outside SNCB; the private sector conciliators system; and, as far as SNCB is concerned, Article 136 of the 1926 Act regulates the matter. But whether it is public services or the private sector, the intervention of a conciliator is not mandatory. Unlike public services, however, at SNCB, the conciliator may be called upon at the request of one of the conciliation stakeholders, i.e. HR Rail, SNCB, the Minister, the Human Resources Coordination Committee and the Chairperson or his or her agent of a union organization. Unlike public services, it does not take unanimity to do so. I have told you in committee that in 2015 there was the intervention of a social conciliator and that the various actors I have just mentioned no longer want the intervention of the social conciliator. This is in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u128	Mr Minister, it is nice to recall the social conciliation procedures, but I know them! You repeat the same argument, which shows that you didn't listen to me. Because since then, I've been doing a little more. What you do not want to recognize is that, in fact, parties may not accept the intervention of the social conciliator unless it is enshrined in the law. The big difference with the private sector - it is always forgotten - is that in the private sector, the social conciliator always chairs the joint committee. Finally, there was only one intervention by the social conciliator at SNCB. But politics got mixed up. This obviously didn't work! I can understand that today we don't want to get back in such conditions. And to counter this possibility, let it be written in the law without intervention of the policy by giving itself this chance, for you forget the essential in fine as regards the intervention of the social conciliator: avoid the strike!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u129	I believe that the content of Article 136 offers so many possibilities and powers of intervention for a conciliator that the parties to conciliation and conciliation can appeal. I understand that neither of them yet wish to appeal to a conciliator. We will return to the transport plan at another time, as this is not the subject of today's discussion. Mr.Maingain, as far as minimum service is concerned, I think your group has provided it in the committee to look at this bill. I don't think you've understood that yet. I'm sorry about that. I've known you more skillful and brighter in other areas. In this case, it seems to me that you did not understand the scope of the project. There's no requisition. When you say that the rolling stock could be maintained on strike days, notice that the workshops also strike. If there's a strike, it's for the whole SNCB. I observed that the strike often started from the workshops. Finally, I think that the late hour does not lend itself to much longer conversations. I like numbers and precision. I'll take you all by witness. Mrs Grovonius, you're giving me figures on punctuality. I have the report in front of me. If you want to, I'll give you my computer. In September, 42.3% of delays and 50.5% of trains removed from the SNCB inland network have external causes. There are still 50 per cent internal causes, on which we absolutely must work. I must tell you that the designation of line managers is not enough. I expect the two railway undertakings to take strong steps, sufficient to improve punctuality in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u130	Minister, we are not going to wage a war of numbers. But quoting a figure over a specific month can slightly distort the results. I come with figures for a period of one year. Over this one-year period, it is very clear that the reasons considered third-party have decreased. I stress that it is the equipment problems that are the main cause of the lack of punctuality, linked to the lack of investment in the maintenance of this equipment. Finally, Minister, I have the impression that you have not listened to anything about our interventions at all. Of course, we defended the railwaymen. We have defended the right to strike and collective action. But we also defended rail users. Indeed, you have been told and repeated, what we want is a maximum service for these users throughout the year and not a minimum or so-called minimum service for the strike day that could intervene. When you tell us that your main concern is these students, these workers who want to go to work, I hope you will take this into account when you come to us to present the potential price increases for these rail users. If this is your priority, we will have discussions in this context. I think, however, that you will have a different speech when you increase ticket rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u131	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u132	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2650/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2650/7) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "draft law on the continuity of rail passenger transport services in the event of a strike." L'intitulé en néerlandais a été modifié par la commission and "draft law on the continuity of rail passenger transport services in the event of a strike'. The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u133	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u134	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u135	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u136	Mr President, I have prepared a very comprehensive report, but in view of the hour that has come, I shall confine myself to referring to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will also be brief. As you already know, the reform of the Privacy Commission is something that our group has been asking for for a very long time. We have already tabled a legislative proposal on this matter and a number of issues have been included in the coalition agreement on the initiative of our party. I am therefore very pleased with the present draft law, which was discussed in detail and amended in committee. I will not repeat the committee's discussion, but I would like to make two important points. First of all, we are very satisfied with the clear organisational structure in which the independence of those responsible is a strict requirement. In the new Data Protection Authority, the post of staff member will now become a full-time job. We demand genuine independence from the officials. They shall not exercise any other mandate in private organisations or public organisations. This is a very important reason for us to welcome this reform. The new Data Protection Authority will have teeth to effectively enforce compliance with the Privacy Regulation, the GPDR, with sanctions of up to 10% of turnover. That's not cat piss, a former newsreader would say. Nevertheless, the new GBA may and will not be a privacy police for us. Sanctions shall be the closing point only after all the means have been exhausted. It is absolutely impossible for us to organise a gratuite witch hunt for companies. This is reflected in the structure of the new GBA, with separate components for the different tasks assigned. Although there is the possibility, and even encouragement, of mutual exchange and cooperation, the components do each have their final responsibility, and to our satisfaction also key performance indicators, on which this authority will be taken care of. The KPI will have to underline the importance of all its tasks. The new privacy committee will first of all have to inform, advise and guide, better than it is today, as the hearings have shown. Only after that does she have to inspect and sanction. The companies in question and other data processors must be properly assisted to comply with the privacy rules. It is better to prevent infringements than to punish them. For these reasons, namely the sound reform, the focus on the tasks of the new privacy committee and independence as a key element, our group, even at this late hour, is pleased to approve this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u138	Mr President, my group – Stakhanovist if any – has asked me to speak at length. I'll do what I can. I am happy to do so because it is an important bill. Privacy is certainly one of the most underestimated issues in the digital age. Unlike conventional crimes and offences, breaches of privacy, the illegal exploitation of our personal data seem painless. Yet the right to privacy is important! It is the right to live one's life as we see fit, without being held accountable, without having to justify oneself to anyone. It is the freedom to be what we want without calling into question our place in society. The role of the State is therefore to sanctify this area of freedom so that everyone can define himself or herself there without pressure from any moral, religious or professional authority. However, the situation is far from ideal. We're being watched, hunted. Our choices are analysed, sold, denounced, used at our expense, on a daily basis. At a time when everything is connected, from the watch to the car through the boiler, identifying those who collect and process personal data is extremely difficult. In any case, waiting for the citizen to conduct a crusade against multinationals alone to protect his personal data, is totally illusory. That is why we need a public authority to ensure the role of custodian of personal data. I would therefore like to thank the Secretary of State, his team, his administration, for coming with a very important project; I would also like to thank the experts heard in committee and who have been working on the subject for years. The Privacy Authority will now be able to intervene on the basis of a complaint alongside its usual tasks. We'll be able to reprimand, give periodic penalty payments, pay fines, report to the prosecutor's office... All this is very good! Is the project perfect? No. For if it is beautiful to create an authority to protect people's privacy from digital giants, it is even better to give them the means to do so. The new authority will have additional missions and yet, not one more euro! We're going to have investigators on the ground, who are going to analyze a lot of data, who are going to have to sort of organize a trial with respect for the rights of the defence, not one more euro! The budget has not moved since 1992. When the Privacy Commission was created, remember, the Internet was in its infancy. Smartphones didn't exist. Each information had to be manually encoded. Twenty-five years later, we're in the big data era. The Internet is everywhere. Billions of data are collected every second and processed automatically by algorithms that record our habits. This explosion of data goes hand in hand with an explosion of illegal crops and treatments, yet not a euro in addition to the new authority! I really regret it. Amendments have been tabled on this subject to raise funds not from the state budget, but to raise funds from those who use and pose the problems I have just mentioned. That was not retained. We will discuss this again on the occasion of the budget. For the rest, 67 amendments were accepted. I thank all the members of the committee for that. There were also four promises. I'll call them back soon so we can see if you're going to realize them. 1. Adapt the law on the police information monitoring body which does not currently comply with the requirements of the European regulation. There's a lot of police databases, we know that. What will be done, in particular, to comply with the European Directive? 2. Clarification of procedures to avoid micmacs and case law in all directions. 3. The adaptation of the call route. Going to the Court of Markets may not be the ideal situation. I think we have agreed in committee. 4. I do not forget that you have announced a bill to stop the deductibility of administrative fines. It would still be crazy if we decided to impose a fine on Facebook, for example, and that this company could deduct it taxably. That doesn't make any sense! That would be unacceptable, given that we are not already paying enough taxes. The government promises us a plan to do something about it, and that's so much better. In addition to these promises, there is a great deal of progress in the process of appointing the steering committee. Indeed, we have moved from an opaque, politicized and tele-guided process by the executive to a transparent, open and ultimately controlled method by parliament. Bravo! Good. I've seen a lot of evolutions. That is why this project inspires us positively. I may express one last regret. This text does not allow associations to act directly with the future data protection authority. Given the technicality of the matter, however, they are the best equipped to understand these files. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the positive work that has been done in committee and because of the listening we have had, my group will vote in favour of this bill. I'll make it up to you. Like the expert, Ms. Élise Degrave, hope that this project will combine technological development with respect for citizens' freedoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u139	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us today is the result of a lengthy process of reflection and consultation aimed at reforming the Privacy Commission to give it the status of a truly modern data protection authority, with supervisory and enforcement powers, as well as advice and support. This project responds to the technological revolution that we are witnessing and that literally transforms the production of data and our relationship to it. I would like, as Mrs Onkelinx has just done, to commend once again the work of the Secretary of State and her team, and the constructive spirit that led the work in committee. It was recalled that 67 amendments had been discussed and accepted during those discussions. This gives this bill even more strength. We in this committee have benefited from very interesting hearings which have led to these amendments. This bill follows the lines of the GDPR - the general data protection regulation - and takes into account the necessary independence of the supervisory authority and the application of the principle of good governance within it. Clear procedure, effective control: cumulations and conflicts of interest are settled. This draft law harmonises the protection of persons and the obligations of controllers and subcontractors in all Member States. It also balances the rights and obligations of public and private actors. The project also focuses on the autonomy and accountability of evolving and personal bodies by providing a framework for compliance review and strengthening external oversight. It ensures fairness and proportionality in the implementation of sanctions, providing for an evolving arsenal of appropriate sanctions. Prior support is provided, as is awareness-raising. Finally, this bill organizes the conditions under which the data control authority can monitor and support societal, economic and technological developments with the creation of a think tank and a knowledge centre. It is therefore with confidence and optimism that we will join you, Secretary of State, in ensuring that our country and Parliament are at the forefront of data protection at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u140	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of the new Data Protection Authority was the subject of a serious and respectful debate in the Committee on Justice. Hearings were organised and several amendments were tabled. The result is a draft law supported by the majority and opposition. Three things were very important to our group. Firstly, that Parliament could play its full role in the appointment procedure, secondly, an appropriate appeal body against the decisions of the Data Protection Authority and, thirdly, the tax non-deductibility of administrative fines. Our objections and amendments have been taken into account on all these points and my group will therefore vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u141	I did not register any other speakers. They were just statements of support. Mr Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u142	Mr President, I would like to thank Parliament for the very constructive way in which the draft law was handled. The additions and amendments that we have been able to discuss in committee have enriched the draft law. I believe that the proposal before us realizes the professionalisation of this Data Protection Authority. It is a modern Data Protection Authority that can operate in full independence and will also offer a great deal of transparency to the various companies and organisations. In the field of competence, it also has the necessary elements to take the right measures both in terms of sensitisation, guidance and control. Ladies and gentlemen, I am confident that this Parliament, where the final decision to finance the new Data Protection Authority lies, will provide all the necessary means to fully protect the privacy of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u143	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u144	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2648/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2648/7) The draft law has 114 articles. The bill has 114 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u145	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u146	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u147	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u148	Minister, the present draft law is a provisional crown of the reform work you have carried out in recent years on development cooperation. It was an ambitious plan because not only the governmental but also non-governmental and humanitarian aid were subject to a thorough evaluation and preparation for the 21st century. The conversion from BTC to Enabel fits into that broad enterprise. There was a need for more flexibility to focus on Africa and the fragile contexts. The OECD DAC also recommended more decision-making autonomy on the ground. We are therefore satisfied and support your reform, Minister. However, my group would like to draw attention to a number of points, first and foremost the position of Enabel. Enabel has many powers: from policy preparation to the possibility of awarding a contract to third parties, the self-execution of projects, coordination and evaluation, the possibility of participating in participations in companies and other organisations, a very broad spectrum of which Enabel has exclusive rights. Enabel is committed to achieving results with strict conditions, but we are a little concerned that, if the conditions are not met, there will be no alternative to further compliance with the agreements with our partner countries. We are therefore counting on it to be included very clearly in the management contract. Finally, we see a partial overlap between the tasks of the BIO and Enabel. In the field of promoting sustainable and fair trade and entrepreneurship and the development of innovative financial instruments, Enabel is actually at a crossroads with the BIO. We hope that you will be able to clarify this further. When Enabel acquires funds through the goal for proposals, we hope that it is clear that these funds will not serve as a second channel of funding in addition to the already received grants for project operation. In this context, we would like to see a more open system of public procurement, on which fit-for-purpose actors can subscribe on an equal footing, rather than some kind of subcontracting via Enabel. Minister, all the comments made are without prejudice to the reform and to your draft law. Rather, they are a sign to indicate that we do not believe that the story ends here. The operation will need to go further and further work will need to be done to continue the reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u149	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, behind a harmless title and a hybrid and ambiguous text, in the words of the Council of State, it is indeed a profound reform of Belgian Technical Cooperation (BTC) which we are talking about this night. My group is sceptical about this bill, above all for everything it does not contain, for everything it does not say. You may suffer from an acute obsession with investment and the private sector, which, if we listened to you, should be the catalyst for the majority of our official development assistance, despite the inconsistencies noted in the annual report of the CNCD-11.11.11 between this political orientation and the concentration of our aid in the poorest countries. This bill has given rise to many debates and hearings in our Committee on External Relations. This work is to be welcomed. We were able to have hearings and to carry out serious work in committee. However, today it must be noted that many issues remain outstanding, both for us Members, for non-governmental cooperation actors, for trade unions, for CTB staff and for actors on the ground. First, what about the staff? Too many questions arise in terms of both their number and their status. It is not for nothing that the unions, on the common front, gave you a negative opinion on this reform. Secondly, what about the essential principle of untying aid? Indeed, we fear that greater integration of the private sector and a form of merger with the diplomatic apparatus will lead to a linkage of development assistance with objectives that go beyond it and to a possible instrumentalization of development cooperation through policies that are more of a geostrategic nature or of defence of private interests than of the well-being of local populations. If, of course, I have nothing against the private sector and its sustainable investments, we can still have some doubts about development cooperation. This will, in any case, require our full attention, particularly with regard to projects that are funded by BIO. I come to a third element. Unfortunately, we have to settle for a wait and see – we'll see! – waiting in particular for a management contract that serves a little here as a real monster of the Loch Ness. It is repeated in the bill. Yet no one has seen it yet and knows what it contains. I just hope that, when we realize the potential impacts of such a reform, we will always have a genuine Belgian development cooperation and, above all, that the expertise of your administration, which must be welcomed, will not be evaporated. This expertise is extremely valuable as the challenges are great and the budget cuts in this area are abyssal. The 2018 budget, which we will soon have to discuss, also provides for new cuts. We are far from the 0.7 per cent target and, I am increasingly afraid, the coherence of development policies. For all these reasons, Mr.Minister, my group and I will abstain on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u150	Mr President, it is a little late to talk about such an important project. However, I appreciate that everyone is here to talk about it, including the minister. I hope you have the whole attack that you are known to have, and that we have seen in committee, to defend your project. We support this project with conviction. It is an initiative that is fully in line with the government agreement as well as with projects presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Development Cooperation. This project focuses on two areas: optimisation and optimisation. Optimization, as the reform under review will enable the future Enabel to respond to the new development paradigm that emerged in 2015. Optimization, as the reform also responds to the central recommendation made by the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development during its peer review in September 2015. Optimization of cooperation between the various actors in Belgian development policy. Optimization thanks to greater flexibility for in-concrete interventions. Optimization, because Enabel now has a mandate to prepare the policy that this agency will then have to implement. Optimization, Minister, through flexibility and autonomy to reallocate portfolio interventions up to 15%. Optimization, thanks to stable funding, is more advantageous than at present. An operating budget of an average of €175 million per year, including an operating budget of €23.6 million per year. Our minister has said this in committee, which has reassured us as a result of the various questions that I and my excellent colleagues, Mr. Miller and Flahaux, we were asking: we have received the commitment of the guarantee of means for the next five years. The unions will pay attention to this and we will also be; optimisation because Enabel, ladies and gentlemen, will finally have a legal regime for his staff. This is a security commitment, including for staff. Then optimization by a system of legal continuity between the current CTB and the future Enabel. Is that all right, Mr. Cheron? Would you like to say a word? If you wish, you can interrupt me. Finally, Mr President, the optimisation of technical expertise and political orientation. Mr Minister, we will have to draft a management contract - we have talked about it at length in committee - to which we will give our full attention in the coming months. It will regulate the funding of Enabel, the division of powers and mandates within embassies in order to clearly determine who is entitled to make political decisions so as to ultimately exclude any arbitrary decision. It will also regulate the specification of rules relating to public service missions, the rules relating to the missions of third parties involved, those relating to management capacity, the obligation of results and risk management, the financial arrangements, the staff regulations guidelines, cooperation with the Federal State, the business plan and several specific provisions relating to internal audit and integrity. I would like to thank the Minister who, in our debates, proposed that this management contract be submitted to the Committee on External Relations. We therefore look forward to it on a firm footing and will be very happy to be able to discuss it once it has been concluded. Colleagues, Enabel will therefore gain in flexibility, be able to grant grants to local NGOs, maintain its autonomy in positions abroad, be responsible for developing country strategies and portfolios and be responsible for preparing interventions. In the face of these advances, my group and I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u151	Mr President, Minister, from a need for flexibility and more centralization, and by changing international paradigms, you felt it necessary to reform the BTC into Enabel. CD&V will adopt this bill to reform the current BTC from a majority, although this was not included in the coalition agreement. We ourselves were not immediately asking for the BTC to be reformed. However, we give the benefit of the doubt because the effect must ultimately be done in the management contract. This management contract must respect a number of principles, including safeguarding Enabel's autonomy and expertise. This is not guaranteed in the current draft law, although it is important. You have also confirmed that Enabel should be an autonomous agency with its own expertise in the field and with a clear job definition. It should not be about mere integration of development cooperation into foreign affairs, or integration into the Embassy area of Enabel. I hope that the management contract will provide more clarity. We approve this bill, but we do not yet give a blank cheque. As Mrs Jadin said, further details and practicalisation are still needed. We would like to see the management contract discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee. We also think that an evaluation after one year of the various instruments resulting from this draft law would be appropriate. CD&V is not opposed to a reform of development cooperation, but we do think it is important that there is a sufficient balance between government cooperation, the private sector and civil society. We do not believe that governmental cooperation can be undermined or instrumentalised for foreign affairs. With these principles in mind and with a good impact in the management contract, we approve this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it has been almost 20 years since a thorough reform of Belgian development cooperation was carried out. The draft law before us was therefore very welcome. The world has not stopped for 20 years. There are new challenges, there are other solutions. The BTC could, as it were, use a facelift. The BTC will now be called Enabel. We still need to get used to the new name, Minister, but the reform is more than welcome. It's not just about a change of style. This bill reflects the policy choices you have already made and which you now want to legally anchor, with a greater role for the private sector, a more flexible approach and more scope for evaluation. These are points that we appreciate, but unfortunately the draft law also contains a number of uncertainties and unanswered questions. It is also not supported by trade unions and civil society. The three trade unions of the BTC and the DGD have given a protocol of non-agreement because of the uncertainties in the law. In particular, they focused on the Staff Regulations. According to you, Minister, these uncertainties will be resolved in the management contract together with all the other shortcomings in the law. I think that is not a solution, but part of the problem. Like civil society, we also have questions about how the crucial division of responsibilities will not be in the law, but in the management contract, for example how foreign policy and development policy will be coordinated. There is no clear hierarchy between the two policy areas in the legislative text, while in practice there will inevitably be conflicts of substance. The objectives of Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation are not always the same. It must be ensured that our development policy is not an extension of our foreign policy. The objectives and concerns of our development policy must be given as much attention as those of our foreign policy. That should have been regulated by law, Minister. By clearly emphasising the new key objective of development cooperation in the proposed text, many concerns could have been overcome in civil society, staff and Members of Parliament. Mr Minister, this draft is a missed opportunity to deliver on a promise to the staff, the people who have worked hard for years. It is also a missed opportunity to work with civil society to ensure that the core objective of development cooperation becomes more central to our foreign policy. That is why our group will abstain from voting on the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u153	Colleagues, Mr President, Mr Minister, you will agree, the time is somewhat indecent, somewhat undue to hold a debate on Belgium's main cooperation agency. We will still have to pay attention to the way in which we organize these. This is the way cooperation is often dealt with in recent times, and I regret it. For the rest, of course, I will refer to the arguments I have put forward in committee. Your bill has very good intentions. This instrument of cooperation needed to be modernized. Other colleagues have referred to a whole series of elements. Simply, your bill stops halfway. There is no complete and obvious clarification between the three current pillars of cooperation: DGD, Enabel and BIO. I've already made the point. For the most part, it's a cat in a bag because we're referring to this management contract. You agreed to come and present it to Parliament. We'll see what's in it. I repeat, the intention is good. It was necessary to modernize. The mandate needed to be expanded. Projects needed to be managed more effectively, but the intention and the project stopped a little bit midway. For the rest, I believe, Mr President, that we should organize our debates so that we can conduct in-depth discussions at times that are more respectful of the importance of the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PTB is opposed to this bill, which is a sign of worrying developments in development cooperation. This has been stressed many times by many players in the sector. Quickly, four critical points. First, there is the budgetary aspect. Despite the Minister's promise to ensure a stable budget for Enabel/CTB over the next five years, the PTB would like to point out that there is an overall and drastic decrease in development aid budgets. This reduction is, we must remember, further away from Belgium's 0.7% of GDP target. I would also remind you that in 2014, this government chose to implement an austerity plan ranging from 150 million savings in 2015 to 270 million in 2019. But, and this is my second point, there is also a paradigm shift. Cooperation is no longer seen as an instrument of international solidarity to combat the inequalities and development of the countries of the South with the partner countries. It runs the risk of being instrumentalised in serving, on the one hand, the current objectives of foreign affairs (including migration control) and, on the other hand, the interests of Belgian private companies. This danger of instrumentalisation was clearly pointed out at the hearing of Messrs. Vanden Berghe and Zacharie, the secretaries-general of the dome 11.11.11-CNCD, on 4 October. Mr Vandenberghe said: "The aid must be adapted to the needs of the partner countries rather than responding to the needs of the European countries, as is the case today in the area of migration". This is not, as the Minister says, a modernization of cooperation to achieve the UN's sustainable development goals, but rather a 40-year backward step that highlights Belgium's neo-colonial interests. The third critical axis relates to another drift from this bill, against which the PTB is firmly opposed. I am referring to the point which now allows Enabel to grant subsidies to local NGOs in the countries of the South. The PTB denounces this mechanism for the direct financing of civil society in a third country by a bilateral cooperation agency. For example, would you agree that the Russian State or the US State directly finances Belgian civil society organisations through its parastatal bodies? Finally, we share the concerns of the staff, relayed by the union representatives at the joint front during their hearing in committee. I quote: "The staff of the CTB and the SPF are rightly concerned about their employment, job security and legal status, but are also sceptical about the transparency of policy, respect for the rules of good governance and democratic control of Belgian development policy". Even if the minister promises stable funding and the maintenance of all staff, the unions fear that these promises will not be met, given the constant reduction of staff over the past three years – as a reminder, headquarters staff have increased from more or less 180 full-time equivalents to 150 – and the drastic decrease in the budgets of the Co-operation. That is why we will oppose this bill!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u155	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for staying until this late hour to discuss this bill. First of all, I would like to comment on what our colleague, Mrs Grovonius, has said. You literally said it was "a profound reform." I'm not going to contradict you. It is, in fact, a rather profound reform that adapts the BTC to a new development framework, that of the Sustainable Development Goals. As Mrs Jadin said, this also responds to a request made by the OECD. It called for a better articulation of the competences of the various development bodies and instruments. This process had already begun in 2014. I'm very happy to be able to show it here. Mrs Jadin, in fact, this also offers financial stability of five years for Enabel so that she can better plan her activities. I hear some say that there would be uncertainty about the status of the staff. I'd like to make that right. Staff at the BTC have worked for 30 years without any legal status. So it has waited 30 years for that and this government will finally give it a full legal position. The details of the legal status will be determined in a management contract. The content of that management contract is relatively similar to that of the management contracts that one always works with. So please do not criticize the fact that we will at last clarify, while the staff have been working in total uncertainty for 30 years and none of my predecessors dared to take this step forward. Mrs. Van Hoof, an evaluation after one year is perfectly okay. You say that this reform is not included in the coalition agreement. As you know, this government has already done some things that are not in the coalition agreement. It may be said that the reforms that we are undertaking and which are not in the coalition agreement are the more interesting reforms of this period of government. We will see whether the BTC reform is there, but the fact that it is not in the coalition agreement is absolutely not a criterion for me to be positive or negative about it. Mrs Bellens, the management contract will clearly clarify the commitment to results. The articulation between BIO and Enabel is relatively clear to me. Both have a role to play to better engage the private sector, although this role is very different. At BIO it is specifically about investment, while at Enabel it is about using the private sector to strengthen certain projects, as a catalyst. Mr Dallemagne, I agree with you that the time for discussion does not reflect the importance of the subject and, let alone, that of the reform that we are submitting to you. Mr Van Hees, I take it from your statement that you see as a bad idea the possibility now offered to finance NGOs that protect, for example, human rights in Burundi or in the DRC. I am quite surprised to hear that, but perhaps this is the result of the absence of your party during the committee discussions. I would like to thank everyone for their support in the work and discussions during the hearings and I hope that from the beginning of 2018 we will be able to continue the reform of the BTC to Enabel in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u156	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u157	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2645/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2645/5) The draft law contains 52 articles. The bill has 52 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u158	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u159	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Stéphane Crusnière, Sebastian Pirlot, Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Eric Thiébaut, Alain Top
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u160	The Committee on Defence proposes that the motion for a resolution be rejected. (2309/3) The Committee on National Defence proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2309/3) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on the proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Mr Hellings is rapporteur and he refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u161	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity offered by our Rules of Procedure to bring this text back to plenary. This text was rejected unexplained and unexplained by the majority. Indeed, while last week the government validated its 2018 Defence Operations Plan, our text simply requested that the Minister of Defence's General Policy Note be systematically attached to the Military Operations Plan for the coming year, as well as to publish all of the public information in the Operations Plan provided to the Chamber on the Defence website and to update the information whenever it is relevant. No more, no less. Meanwhile, the House still does not have this 2018 plan. It seems incomprehensible to me that the Minister of Defence does not systematically, as often in the past, attach the following year's operational plan to his general policy note, which we will discuss next week in committee. Moreover, it is not for us to disclose information deemed sensitive about the planning of Belgian military operations and exercises. However, it is essential that the public information provided to the Chamber be as widely available as possible, accessible and, above all, updated to the general public, including through the army's website. I hope to be able to count on your support because it is still disturbing that despite the fact that this text has been presented on our benches and that I have interviewed the minister on numerous occasions, the Defence site has still not changed anything in terms of transparency and updating. Today, the House has still not received this plan despite the letter from my group leader, who, as every year, has had to ask for it expressly, whereas it should be automatic if this text is adopted by our assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u162	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u163	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 5 October 2017, a call for candidates for a mandate of French-speaking member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category "Former members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate" was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 10 October 2017. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 5 October 2017, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 10 October 2017 for a term as a French-speaking member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category "Former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate". The following application was submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following application was submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Etienne Knoops - Mr. Etienne Knoops In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 November 2017, Mr Etienne Knoops' curriculum vitae will be delivered to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 November 2017, the curriculum vitae of Mr Etienne Knoops will be forwarded to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u164	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of a French-speaking effective member of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services. The next item is the election for the appointment of a Francophone effective member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 21 September 2017. Nominations were announced in plenary on September 21, 2017. The Special Committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the P and I Committees heard both candidates on 7 November 2017. Mr André Frédéric reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 14 November 2017. The Special Committee for Parliamentary Support of Committees P and R heard the two candidates on 7 November 2017. André Frédéric reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 14 November 2017. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed (Doc. 2770/1). The document bearing the names of the candidates was distributed to you (Doc. No 2770/1). The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. To vote one has to place a cross in the box next to the name of the chosen candidate. The votes cast on more than one candidate shall be invalid. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. The votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are void. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call. Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u165	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u166	These motions were tabled in the plenary session of 16 November 2017. (2749/3) (2344/6) These motions were tabled in plenary on 16 November 2017. (2749/3) (2344/6) Two motions and one amendment were tabled in the following chronological order: - a first motion was tabled by Mr Peter Vanvelthoven and Mr Ahmed Laaouej; A second motion was tabled by Mrs Griet Smaers and Mr Luk Van Biesen, Robert Van de Velde and Vincent Scourneau. - an amendment to the second motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Dispa, Michel de Lamotte, Christian Brotcorne and Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mrs Isabelle Poncelet. Two motions and one amendment were tabled in the following chronological order: - a first motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Vanvelthoven and Ahmed Laaouej - a second motion was tabled by Ms Griet Smaers and by Messrs. Luk Van Biesen, Robert Van de Velde and Vincent Scourneau - an amendment on the second motion was tabled by Messrs. Benoît Dispa, Michel de Lamotte, Christian Brotcorne and by Mrs Catherine Fonck and Isabelle Poncelet I propose that you vote on the motions and the amendment in the chronological order of referral. I propose that you vote on the motions and the amendment in chronological order of their tabling. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? I put to the vote the first motion by Mr Vanvelthoven and Mr Ahmed Laaouej. I put to the vote the first motion of Messrs. Peter Vanvelthoven et Ahmed Laaouej. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u167	Yes 50 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 131 Total The motion has been rejected. Consequently, the Chamber can decide on the amendment and the second motion. The motion was defeated. Therefore, the House may rule on the amendment and the second motion. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? I put to the vote the amendment tabled by Mr Benoît Dispa, Mr Michel de Lamotte, Mr Christian Brotcorne and Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Isabelle Poncelet on the second motion. I shall put to the vote the amendment by Messrs. Benoît Dispa, Michel de Lamotte, Christian Brotcorne and Catherine Fonck and Isabelle Poncelet on the second motion. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u168	Yes 51 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was rejected. The amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? I put to the vote the second motion by Mrs Griet Smaers and Mr Luk Van Biesen, Robert Van de Velde and Vincent Scourneau. I put to the vote the second motion of Mrs Griet Smaers and MM. Luk Van Biesen, Robert Van de Velde et Vincent Scourneau. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u169	Yes 78 Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 131 Total The motion was adopted. The motion has been passed. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u170	Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck on Article 2.(2650/8) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2.(2650/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[21]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? (No) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 4.(2650/8) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 4.(2650/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 4 Yes No. 128 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck on Article 4.(2650/8) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck to Article 4.(2650/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[17]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck on article 4.(2650/8) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck to Article 4.(2650/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[20]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 10 by Marcel Cheron cs on Article 4.(2650/8) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Marcel Cheron cs to Article 4.(2650/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 49 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted with an improvement in the text. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted with a correction of text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u171	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 78 Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2650/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2650/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2648/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2648/8) Mr. Maingain voted in favour. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 78 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 51 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2645/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2645/6) Ms Özen abstained. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u174	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 76 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 2309/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 2309/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u175	Voters 129 Stemmen White or invalid 3 Blank or invalid Valid 126 Geldig Absolute majority 64 Perfect majority Mr Olivier Mazy received 3 votes Olivier Mazy won 3 votes Mr Laurent Van Doren received 123 votes Mr Laurent Van Doren won 123 votes Since Mr Laurent Van Doren has received 123 votes, which is the absolute majority, he has been appointed an effective French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Mr. Laurent Van Doren, having obtained 123 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an effective Francophone member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip197x.u176	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 23 November 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 23 November 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 23 November 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 November 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
