ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish you a healthy, happy, prosperous and successful 2017. We have always worked well together in this committee and I am sure that we will continue this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u2	Mr. Speaker, my best wishes to all colleagues, to the minister and also to the staff of the House. Minister, a few months ago, as part of the discussions on malicious calls to 112, the possibility was raised of setting up a pre-call taking either by operators or by a numerical menu. It was also suggested that this could lead to contact in the appellant's language. What is the status of this project? I guess we could do an analysis of the pros and cons of the two formulas. If so, what are the conclusions? Will it be possible to move towards a global project or a pilot project? It is interesting to take stock; it is important for operators as regards malicious calls but also to increase the efficiency and speed of the intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u3	Ms. Fonck, at my request, the University of Mons conducted a study on the use of IVR technology in the processing of urgent appeals. The results of this study were very positive, but the study itself was carried out on a small scale. The test audience consisted of a limited number of people. I therefore believe that it is premature to generalise these positive results as such. I have therefore asked my administration to develop a pilot project scenario, which was implemented in 2017 and which I expect to achieve in half this year. If the evaluation confirms the positive results of the study, the use of IVR technology will certainly merit consideration. The main stakeholders will still receive information before the pilot project on the circumstances of the correct use of IVR technology, so that concerns about it are addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u4	Minister, thank you. I imagine that, within the framework of this technology, there will be a language orientation. Will both be well grouped? You say yes. During the evaluation, it would be interesting to know the possible positive impact at the level of malicious calls. It might be interesting to check if their number is decreasing. It is known that this number is fluctuating from year to year, and sometimes significantly. We should see if this has an impact on this aspect of appeals, which is completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u5	Mr Blanchart cannot come to ask his question today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u6	Mr. Chair, Minister, this is a subject on which I regularly and singularly address your health colleague. This applies not only to doctors but also to all health professionals. Recall that since the Order of Physicians set up a point of contact, just during the period from June to September 2016, there have been 20 incidents of violence against doctors in the exercise of their profession. This is particularly challenging. These acts of violence took place 10 times in their offices, 5 times in their homes and 4 times on the telephone. Remember, the latest horrendous incident in the news of violence affected a doctor in Forest. The facts were serious since he was still fighting for the very serious injuries he suffered. There have already been interventions on this subject before. The reason I'm asking you again today is that there are two leads on the table that seem interesting to me. The first is the possibility of having an emergency call during visits by health professionals. The second track, which is complementary, is to put in place a list of patients at risk of violent slippage. These patients could then be admitted to the office or seen at home only under enhanced and strict security conditions, possibly with an escort for night calls. A working group has been set up. On the basis of the information available to me, I saw that this group met on 25 February 2016. Since then, this group does not appear to have continued its work unless the information is not available on the Inland FPS website. I would therefore like to know what is happening and whether concrete measures can be envisaged. I just mentioned two of them. They are themselves carried by the different sectors of health professionals. I think it would be important to be able to make concrete progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u7	Mrs Fonck, it is true that the working group has only met in full on 25 February. It brings together the various medical circles, the Order of Physicians, the Praag Group, the Public Health FPS, the Justice FPS and my services. It is mainly dedicated to the launch of actions and their evaluation. For this reason, several annual meetings are not planned. However, this does not mean that the members of the working group are either inactive or not informed of developments in this matter. This first meeting in February provided an opportunity to investigate actions aimed at improving the safety of general practitioners working outside hospital facilities. Since then, my services have increased bilateral contacts with the members of the working group with a view to implementing the proposals for initiatives that have been submitted. This small group approach, which keeps all members informed, is preferred for reasons of efficiency. Currently, the working group focuses on raising awareness and informing general practitioners about the prevention of violence and theft. It also envisages the integration of a pilot group of doctors into the geolocation application project 112 – a smartphone application – or into other projects related to new technologies. In consultation with local police areas and doctors, the group examines what measures should be taken to improve safety during home visits. In a second phase, next year, the partnership will focus on raising patientel's awareness of the care provider's respect. The investigation to which you refer is an initiative of the Order of Physicians, developed in collaboration with the VUB. My services are not associated with his organization, but, as part of the working group, it was agreed that the College of Physicians will inform the partners of the results. No deadline has yet been communicated for this. We would like to continue this type of investigation. It is also the subject of discussions between my services and the Order of Physicians. Collaboration with the working group led to a first concrete result: the imminent publication of a digital brochure entitled "A safe medical practice. Some tips to secure your work environment." Developed by my services, in partnership with doctors' circles, it aims to provide physicians with targeted prevention information during their various professional activities. It brings together preventive and situational advice for their practice at home or in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I would still like to take a step further. An alarming number of acts of violence are now being identified by the contact point set up by the College of Physicians. These acts were known, but probably with a significant black number of unrecorded incidents. You are referring here to the preventive measures, which I knew, because I had access to the minutes of the February 2016 meeting. All right. I think that's interesting, and I hope that the "112 call" app for smartphones can quickly be applied in the field. But I would really like to draw your attention to the proposal of the actors on the ground to set up a list of patients particularly at risk of violent slippage, so that enhanced security measures can be taken. Let us recognize that we will not be able to avoid all acts of violence, but we really need to take stock of the increasingly serious facts that occur. Furthermore, even if I address the Minister responsible for the Economy, I would like to make you aware of a significant aspect of insurance. The insurances consider that they must not compensate doctors who have professional liability insurance in the event of an act of violence during the practice of the profession. (I don't know if this has happened to other health care professionals.) I find this totally unacceptable. I will raise your colleague's awareness, but I hope that within the government you will be able to work on this with the insurance sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u9	Minister, the problem I am raising is not new but has existed for two years. Since January 2015, in Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe, language legislation has been systematically violated by the publication of two monolingual city magazines: one in French and one in Dutch, each with a completely different content. The fact that this is a violation of language legislation has already been confirmed by an opinion of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring. The debate on this issue has been held several times in the Brussels Parliament, where almost all the Flemish Brussels parties have asked questions about it and have also called for action to be taken. Until now, that has still been refused. One gets no further than writing a note, without any result. A concrete sanction was not given, despite the specific questions put by the Flemish parties in the Brussels Parliament, and it is also clear that there will not be a penalty immediately. Brussels Prime Minister Vervoort already said in the debate in the Brussels Parliament that he thinks a disciplinary procedure is ridiculous. It is clearly a matter of unwillingness on the part of the mayor of St. Lambrechts-Woluwe. He even boasts that he uses the funds he receives from the federal government to appoint a Dutch-speaking ships for the further defamation of the Rand. He also uses the money for exciting French propaganda in Zaventem. The call for disciplinary action against that mayor is getting stronger and stronger. I read in the reports of the discussions in Brussels that the N-VA MEPs, with Liesbet Dhaene in particular, also ask for the suspension of the mayor concerned for three months. Now, of course, the question arises, if the Brussels Government refuses to do anything about it, what you can do from your powers. I think there are two slopes. Firstly, language legislation states in this respect: "The authorities and officials who, by order or act, circumvent or attempt to overturn the provisions of coordinated laws shall be disciplinaryly punished. Where the offender is a member of the staff of a province, municipality or other decentralised or self-employed public service and the government to which the disciplinary authority is directed does not apply a sanction commensurate with the seriousness of the offence, the King may, instead of that government itself, declare the detention, suspension or disciplinary action." I think I interpret it correctly when I say that under the language law, the King is represented in administrative matters by you as Federal Minister of the Interior. Even if the Brussels Government has the power of disciplinary action over the mayors of Brussels, under that article, it is up to you, if the government entrusted with the disciplinary authority does not act, not to pronounce the dismissal, suspension or disciplinary action. Another line of thought is the solution that you yourself offer in your answer to a written question from Senator Anciaux about your actions against the mayor of Brussels. In that, you say the following: "Since 1 January 2002, disciplinary power in respect of mayors has been transferred to the Regions under Article 6 (1), Book VIII, of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, as replaced by the Special Law of 13 July 2001 on the transfer of various powers to the Regions and the Communities. The disciplinary system provides for the possibility to suspend or dismiss a mayor for manifest misconduct or gross negligence. However, the mayor concerned must be heard in advance and the possible sanction requires motivation. In Flanders, municipal decree Article 78, and Wallonia, Code de la démocratie locale et de la décentralisation, the jurisdiction to apply the disciplinary system lies with the government. However, in the Brussels-Capital Region, new municipal law Article 82, it is an exception and remains the responsibility of the King. The Government of the Brussels-Capital Region has sole competence here to express its opinion on the ships. The principle of political responsibility, by which all the King's actions must be covered by a federal minister and the nature of the events in the margins of the national demonstration of 6 November 2014, made it necessary for me, as Minister for Security and Home Affairs, to consider the action of the Mayor of Brussels, in relation to the guidelines he or she gave to the police forces. In this context, I asked the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and of the local police to conduct an investigation in order to make it perfectly clear." If I correctly interpret that answer, apart from Article 57 of the language legislation, you therefore consider yourself competent to take disciplinary action against Brussels mayors. With those two slopes in mind, I have the following questions for you, Minister. Firstly, are you convinced, like many others, that the systematic and repeated violations of language law, after all, still a law of public order, by the mayor of St Lambrechts-Woluwe, can no longer be tolerated? Secondly, do you agree with the call by the Dutch-speaking Members of the majority of the Flemish parties in the Brussels Parliament for effective disciplinary measures to be taken against the respective mayor? Thirdly, do you take such measures against the mayor, albeit under Article 57 of the language law, because the disciplinary authorities do not act, albeit on the basis of the analysis you yourself made in your reply to Senator Anciaux? What discipline will you take and when? Finally, can you, as Minister responsible for language legislation in Brussels, take additional measures so that we can finally put an end to the systematic violation of the language law?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u10	I am a legalist and I therefore believe that any violation of any law should be dealt with by the appropriate sanctions laid down in the law. There is no discussion about this in a state of law. I would like to inform you in all humility that there has been a mistake in the answer given by my services to Mr Anciaux. After thorough examination of the answer, it appears that a mistake was made. The whole matter of state law isn't that simple either. The confusion with my services has arisen, because the new municipal law, which you rightly quoted, still says that the King, through the Minister of the Interior, a federal minister thus, is competent in this case, myself. That was changed in the fifth state reform. Since then, the Brussels-Capital Region has competence. However, it has been left behind for 14 years to convert the article into the new reality. So I cannot write down disciplinary measures, contrary to what I have said to Mr Anciaux. I'm not responsible for that matter. The Brussels Government is responsible for taking action. If it fails to do so, the Brussels Parliament must exercise its right of scrutiny and ensure that the Brussels Government also converts that article into the new reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u11	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. Honestly, I suspected you weren't authorized to do that. I couldn't find anything on it. It seemed logical to me to confront you with your own words and, of course, to find a solution to the problem. I have a motion of recommendation. I even had two of them ready, in case you were authorized. Anyway, of course you have the power to raise the issue on the Conciliation Committee. There is still Article 57 of the Language Law which states that you can act if the competent government fails to do so. That is why I would like to table my motion of recommendation in order to support you in doing something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u12	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, - having regard to the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters; - whereas the competence of these coordinated laws, in respect of the municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region, remains within the competence of the Federal Government, in particular that of the Minister of the Interior; - having regard to the repeated violations of the language law in administrative matters by the municipality of Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe with regard to the publication of the municipal information sheet; - having regard, inter alia, to Opinion No. 47.031 of 27 March 2015 of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Monitoring confirming these infringements; - having regard to the numerous interplays in the Brussels-Capital Parliament with the Prime Minister of Brussels concerning the language violations relating to the publication of the municipal information sheet of Saint Lambrechts-Woluwe; - whereas the language law in administrative matters is a law of public order and therefore the Brussels Minister responsible for the supervision of local authorities must take disciplinary action against violations of the language law in the Brussels municipalities; - whereas the Prime Minister of Brussels refuses to act against the person responsible for these repeated violations of the language law, in particular against the mayor of that municipality, calls on the Government to submit this dossier to the Consultative Committee with a view to: 1. calling the Brussels Government to account for the failure to comply with a federal law, the application of which was entrusted to it; 2. taking disciplinary measures against the mayor of St. Lambrechts-Woluwe as responsible for the violations of the language law in administrative matters concerning the publication of the municipal information sheet." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, - having regard to the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters; - Whereas the competence relating to these coordinated laws is still vested in the Federal Government – and in particular the Minister of the Interior – for the municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region; - having regard to the repeated infringements of the legislation on the use of languages in administrative matters by the municipality of Woluwe-Saint-Lambert in the context of the publication of the Communal Information Bulletin; - having regard in particular to opinion No. 47.031 of 27 March 2015 of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control confirming these infringements; - having regard to the numerous inquiries addressed to the Brussels Minister-President within the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region concerning infringements of the legislation on the use of languages in the context of the publication of the municipal information bulletin of Woluwe-Saint-Lambert; Whereas the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters are a matter of public order and whereas the Brussels Minister responsible for ensuring compliance with these laws within local administrations must therefore punish any infringement of these laws in Brussels municipalities; - Whereas the Brussels Minister-President refuses to punish the person responsible for these repeated infringements of the laws on the use of languages, namely the mayor of that municipality, asks the government to put this matter on the agenda of the Consultation Committee in order to 1. to hold the government of Brussels to account for failure to comply with a federal law for which it has been charged with implementing a number of provisions; 2. to take disciplinary measures against the mayor of Woluwe-Saint-Lambert as responsible for offences against the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters as part of the publication of the Communal Information Bulletin." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u13	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a happy New Year. I'll bet the new year with a short question. Minister, in West Flanders there would be a huge shortage of captains in the local police zones. It would be more than 20 vacant places. In the federal police, there are apparently a number of captains and commissioners who are not inclined to postulate, for example, a guard officer in the local police. I have a few questions about this. First of all, can you confirm that there is a shortage of captains in the local police zones in West Flanders and that there is a surplus in the federal police? Secondly, what measures can be taken to make the function of chief inspector more attractive in the local police zones or to allow more inspectors to observe the role of chief inspector? Finally, can you confirm that there is already a draft from KB on the table that could provide some relief? If so, what is the timing and content of the present KB?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u14	Mr Top, I would also like to express my best wishes for the new year. You had a short question, my answer has been extended but limited. As for your first question, the morphology of police zones is reviewed once a year. Based on the morphology established on 31 December 2015, the organisation chart of the police zones of the province of West Flanders provides 529 relations for the middle management. In reality, only 450 full-time equivalents have been taken. There is therefore a deficit of 79 middle managers for the province of West Flanders. Since the beginning of 2016, the Western Flemish police zones have opened up 94 relations for middle management to mobility. As these are four successive mobility cycles, this number also includes some re-publications of relationships that were not completed during the previous cycles. So it can be said that only 79 are needed, while 94 are being opened. A total of 37 people have been appointed candidates, 23 of whom were appointed in a police area of the province. Not all selections are already closed, there are still running. I would also like to point out that the officers of the province of West Flanders have a total number. There are 190 officers in service for 167 designated seats. There are therefore a number in the middle management and a number in the officers' framework. Undoubtedly, some of these officers carry out certain tasks normally assigned to the middle management. I come to your second question. The transfer in the degree of Superintendent to the federal police is located in the units of the federal, judicial police. These are functions with a specialised job content, which are likely to be less likely to be postulated for more general posts in primary police services. I do not think that we should find a solution in that corner. In corps where mobility is insufficient, it is possible to appoint inspectors to the higher office and thus to employ them for tasks normally assigned to a chief inspector. The advantage for the inspector concerned is double: he enjoys the bet of a captain and is actually encouraged to make that promotion. Finally, a problem that arises here is that, unlike a chief inspector, even in the constellation mentioned above, an inspector has no powers of judicial police officer. That'll be fixed soon. The law already states that inspectors who meet certain conditions in terms of seniority and training are to be held in that capacity. That's limited to that function. Only the KB which determines the training for this purpose is still lacking. The draft is for study at the Permanent Committee of Local Police. It is expected to enter into force in the coming months. That's the KB you referred to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u15	Minister, the figures show that there is a shortage of captains. You yourself indicate that the selections have not all been completed. It would be strange if the approximately 60 functions were filled out suddenly. The attractiveness of the role of chief inspectors in local police remains a focus of attention. We must examine the possibilities of making this function more attractive. They are indeed specialized functions and so people are less likely to make the switch. Either the pressure is too high, or there are other factors involved. Again, a more attractive role must be sought for the local inspectors. I'm glad to hear the royal decision is making progress. It offers a temporary or partial solution: if we make the inspectors, subject to certain conditions, a judicial police officer, then they can perform the monitoring function to the full.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u16	Mr Demon has asked to convert his questions Nos 15284, 15540 and 15541 into written questions. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 15498 will be converted into a written question. Question No 15518 by Mrs Van Cauter will be dealt with in the Committee on Justice. Mr Dallemagne has asked for his question No. 15542 to be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u17	Minister, I, in turn, offer you my best wishes for the new year. I hope for a further good cooperation. Minister, you know that the introduction of low-emission zones in many cities is a hot topic. A decision has already been taken in Antwerp and it is also being considered in Ghent. When implementing and rolling out the enforcement of such an emission zone, there should be a way to check exactly which wagons enter the zone. The Flemish Decree on low-emission zones provides for enforcement as a condition to do so by automatic or manual number plate recognition. You know that we have already had some issues about this in the past. So that could happen via the ANPR camera dynamometers. However, according to the current state of the legislation and in view of the camera law of 21 March 2007, it would not be possible to use those camera dynamometers in this way. The forthcoming changes to the camera law can therefore be an opportunity, allowing cities to maintain a low-emission zone with those mobile ANPR cameras by non-politic services. What's the timing for changing the camera law? Is that an opportunity you're considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u18	As regards the state of play in the draft amending the camera law, I can tell you that the first preliminary draft law was submitted to the Council of Ministers on 20 July. It was then two texts, one to amend the camera law and one to amend the law on the police officer, to insert the rules for the use of cameras by police forces. It used to be in the camera law, but I inserted the application of the camera law by the police into the law on the police officer's office. Those drafts were approved at first reading. As it should be, they then went to the Commission for the Protection of Privacy and to the Council of State. In the meantime, they issued their opinions in September and October. The College of Attorneys General was also consulted on the draft amendment of the law on the police officer. That gave its opinion at the end of November. So I have all the advice on the first reading of the camera law. We're processing it. The texts are now being adapted, in consultation with the various partners, in order to submit the drafts for a second reading to the Council of Ministers. With regard to the amendment of the camera law, it should not be forgotten that the camera law only aims at surveillance camera performances. The purpose of this legislation is to prevent, detect or detect crimes against persons or property or nuisances, or to maintain order. Moreover, this law does not apply to surveillance cameras, for which use is already regulated by special legislation. Subject to a very broad interpretation of the above-mentioned outcomes, environmental protection is not a part of it and the use of ANPR cameras for the precise purpose you describe would therefore not be regulated by the camera law. This is regulated by Articles 7 and 8 of the Flemish Decree of 27 November 2015. It would obviously be different if the ANPR camera was used for multiple purposes, including one of the ones envisaged by the camera law. In all cases, it is also important to point out that the law on the protection of privacy continues to apply. It is true that the use of mobile ANPR cameras under the camera law has so far been limited to police forces. The law does not include any other special provision relating to the use of intelligent surveillance cameras. In its current version, taking into account the comments made by the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, and with a greater impact of the use of intelligent surveillance cameras on private life, the design to amend the camera law, which therefore aims at the non-political use of surveillance cameras, allows the use of intelligent surveillance cameras only if they are not connected to databases of personal data. It is therefore not intended to extend the use of ANPR cameras for purposes laid down in the camera law to those responsible for processing other than the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u20	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh is apologised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u21	Mr. President, Minister, technical and scientific police laboratories (PTS) have an important role in researching and analyzing clues in criminal cases. Their work, by studying evidence on the ground, allows police officers to resolve cases quickly and confuse the culprits in court. Belgium currently has 28 laboratories and is studying different possible scenarios to implement the accreditation desired by Europe. The possible scenarios are as follows: the one with 14 PTS, divided by judicial districts, 5 according to the courts of appeal and the last scenario offers 3 laboratories. It is essential to promote the efficiency and competence of TSPs. Many analyses question scenarios 3 and 5, including the Vottem site, which will require resizing of the laboratory, but above all the higher recurrent costs and CAP transport. Scenario 14, preferred by the Federal Judicial Police and supported by the College of Attorneys General, the King's Prosecutors Council, provincial governors and the Standing Commission on Local Police (CCPL), is simpler to implement, streamlines costs and optimizes operations for efficient operation, which obviously remains the goal. Minister, my questions are as follows. Based on the analysis of your administrative and police services, what is the most optimal proposal? What criteria do you use primarily? When will the decision be made with the Minister of Justice? After how long will it be implemented? Will it be possible to obtain the agenda for its practical implementation on the various sites?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u22	Jadin, following the redevelopment of the judicial landscape, which saw the number of judicial districts decrease from 26 to 14, an optimization of the federal police also took place in 2015, also reducing the number of PJFs to 14. However, as the number of laboratories has remained the same, there is still a need to ensure that 26 premises are fully equipped with equipment and human resources. We cannot therefore talk about optimisation of technical and scientific police laboratories. 26 fully equipped laboratories represent a significant number for a small country such as Belgium. Combined with the observation that the quality of Belgian laboratories is below the European standard, with the requirement for European accreditation, with the recognition in the government agreement of the importance of the quality of the samples and analyses of traces, and with the report of Committee P, which reports on the uneven and sometimes low rate of descents, this situation led us, my colleague from Justice Koen Geens and myself, to jointly request a thorough analysis of the operation and future of the technical and scientific police laboratories. Different scenarios have been developed, calculated and compared. As an important decision-making criterion, I am thinking above all of increasing quality, specialization and optimisation of service to local police areas and then budgetary and logistical aspects. My Justice colleague Koen Geens and I have recently received all the necessary information to make a decision. We intend to make this decision together in the near future and to communicate it to the Commissioner General of the Federal Police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u23	I did not receive my answer, Mr. President. In addition, I think that by my question one could guess where I got my sources and what is the scenario most supported by the actors on the ground. I visited the laboratory in Liège, and it's a disaster. We fully agree on that fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u24	You know we're building a new lab in Vottem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u25	Yeah, I know about that. I know a little about my area. That's a good thing. Of course it is necessary to comply with European requirements, to meet ISO standards, etc. Don't see any misunderstanding. With regard to the effectiveness and wishes of the justice and police actors, who are the first to be targeted, I would like to stress that the feasibility and proximity that are sometimes necessary are taken into account in the criteria for the effectiveness of the laboratories. Thank you and I will come back shortly as the decision will soon come.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I have already had the opportunity to discuss with you on a number of occasions on the leaks recorded in various swimming pools at the Tihange power plant. I fear, however, that our previous discussions have suffered from some confusion in the terms used. I have a share of responsibility. I sometimes used the term "large storage pool" for the storage pool and the term "stabilization pool", while the official expression is "deactivation pool". I would therefore like to return to the subject in a more precise way. Minister, what is the current extent of the leak from storage pools located in the ED building? The leak we talked about last time, estimated at 192 litres per day in February 2016, is it part of the Tihange 1 deactivation pool or is it part of the storage pools located in the DE building? What is the current extent of the leak from other pools than those located in the ED building? I now target the deactivation pools of T1, T2 and T3. What is the extent of the maximum leak that has been recorded in each of these three swimming pools in recent years? Each of the three reactors has its own cooling pool – and this was where there was confusion – for the temporary storage of spent fuel assemblies. After at least two years in the deactivation pool on the units, the fuel assemblies are transferred to the DE building, which, if not mistaken, contains eight pools with a capacity of 465 assemblies each. In total, there are 3,720 cells in the DE building. This first part of my question was to take stock. For my understanding, could you first tell me how many cubic metres and tons of spent fuel a cell can contain? Of these eight pools, these 465 assemblies (which total 3,720 cells), how many are already filled? Could you then tell me in which of these eight pools in the DE building, if any, the leak is located? Could you finally tell me if this leak or leak is identifiable on alveoli, if the information is known at this level of accuracy? The reactor buildings of the three units at the Tihange site are described as having a double containment system. The inner enclosure is made of prestressed reinforced concrete and has a metallic seal skin while the outer enclosure is made of reinforced concrete. What about the DE building? How is he "bunkerized"? How thick is this bunker and each of its possible containment enclosures? Does this building have a water recovery system in case of leakage? If so, what is this system and how are the measurements made? Last but not least, how is the collection of the water leak from the DE building's swimming pools organized in view of what I have just mentioned about this bunker? Is it organized inside or outside the containment? In short, this issue has required a great deal of information because I am not sure that we have been very clear in the previous exchanges, but, I repeat, I take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u27	Mr. Nollet, the leak is zero in the storage pools in the DE building. The leak is the result of Tihange 1 pool. I would point out that the flow to which you refer was very limited in time and did not reflect the usual situation. This higher than normal flow followed a test of changing the temperature of the Tihange 1 deactivation pool in order to see a possible variation in the flow observed in general, which is approximately 100 ml per day. As soon as the results were found, the temperature was restored to its usual level and the flow returned to an average level of 0.96 ml per day. As far as your third question is concerned, there has been no permanent leakage for the Tihange 2 and 3 swimming pools. The latest information I have about the leak in Tihange 1 on December 15th, measured the leak to 120 ml per hour. As far as your fourth question is concerned, the volume of a cell is between 0.21 and 0.25 m3 depending on the units. Fifth question, the Contact Committee's report in December 2016 reported five full pools corresponding to 2,663 assemblages. The leak was not at the DE building, and questions six and seven fell. In answer to your eighth question, the building is actually "bunkerized" and designed to deal with external accidents such as aircraft accidents, explosions accompanied by shock waves and projectiles and to avoid the infiltration of explosive gases inside the installations. Unlike a nuclear reactor building with a dual enclosure to ensure that radioactive products are kept inside in the event of design accidents involving strong internal pressurization, e.g. rupture of a primary pipework, the DE building does not have a double enclosure because it does not have to deal with this type of internal accident. The building is therefore equipped with adequate ventilation systems to ensure containment. The ninth question is that the DE building does have a leak collection system. Leaks collected under the swimming pools are directed to a collection bin whose level is measured. Finally, the leaks collected are then taken over by the purges circuit and go into the building itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u28	Minister, thank you. I'll take the time to read your answer carefully, but I think we're clear. So it wasn't the pool in the DE storage building that had a problem. This is the T1 pool of the building and where there is deactivation and, this, for Tihange 1 only. Nothing for Tihange 2 or Tihange 3. As far as the alveoles are concerned, I see that you give the answers in cubic metres: 0.21 m3 to 0.23 m3. I also asked for the figures in tonnes. Do you also have the answer in tons or do I have to come back to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u30	As far as the bunker is concerned, I will take the time to analyze the differences between what is in the double-pregnant reactor shutter and what is for the single-pregnant pool.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u31	Mr. Nollet, we're talking about cubic metres of water here. One cubic metre of water is equal to one ton, 1,000 kilos, of course, if it is pure water.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u32	What I'm asking is the amount of spent fuel. It's not the volume of water. It is the volume of spent fuel that we put in the water, of course. You say that a cell, to put a spent fuel, is equivalent to 0.21 m3 to 0.23 m3. Minister, I will repeat that so that we can have the figures next week, since you do not have them with you. Thank you already for the very precise answers given here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u33	Mr President, Minister, you will recall the confusion and uncertainty that existed in your reply to the committee on 14 December last as to the linguistic role of Mr Bens' future replacement. I would like to offer you the opportunity to come back to this subject and to clarify clearly what is happening. I therefore take up most of the questions that I had already raised at the time. When I asked you the following question: "Do you accept that the function of Director General can be assigned to a Francophone?", You said: "Section 41 of the AFCN Act states that the President and the Director General must have different linguistic roles. The current Chair of the Board of Directors is Francophone. In this regard, we therefore follow the law." By this answer, you let it be understood that the next Director General could not be a Francophone, since the President is Francophone. But the next day, on the margins of another meeting, you were going back a little bit to that statement, given the other part of your response in committee, which confirmed that a non-Belgian French candidate (a French candidate, for example) could apply. I'd like to know what's definitely going on. Does the call for applications include a clarification of the linguistic role? Can a French-speaking Belgian apply and have, as a candidate of French nationality, all his chances of being the next Director General of AFCN? How will you apply the principle of different linguistic roles if an English (Anglophone) is designated? Can the president of the board of directors, francophone, in this case remain in place? Are you going to follow up on my suggestion that a person in charge of a nuclear power plant cannot apply? It is known that the law does not provide for incompatibility, but nothing prevents you from establishing stronger requirements or even amending this law, based on recent experience. You had previously stated that you were sensitive to this suggestion. Finally, what is the place given to the external, foreign, international view in this procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u34	Mr Nollet, indeed, we had a little discussion and I was better informed than the other time. It seems simple, but it is not. In principle, it is the language of the diploma giving access to the function that determines the linguistic role assigned to a person within the AFCN. For example, a French-speaking Belgian who has a master's degree in civil engineering, awarded by KUL, the University of Ghent or VUB, can therefore be part of the Dutch-speaking linguistic role. This also applies to persons of other nationalities. The regulations which apply are the Act of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters. However, section 41 of the AFCN Act further states that the President and the Director General have different linguistic roles. The current Chair of the Board of Directors belongs to the Francophone linguistic role, which means that today, a person with a diploma giving access to the Dutch-speaking linguistic role should be appointed. This is the case today, but it is possible that this situation may be different when the new Director General is appointed. So all those interested can apply. Now, I'm going to go through with you the law on the use of languages. Article 43(4) states: "If it is imposed, officials and agents shall undergo their examination of admission in French or Dutch, depending on whether the required diploma, the required certificate of study or the statement of the school principal attests that they have completed their studies in either of these languages. They can demonstrate through a screening that they know the other language as well as the language of their studies and present the examination for admission to that language. (...) Candidates who have completed their studies abroad in a language other than French or Dutch and who avail themselves of an equivalent diploma or certificate of study recognised by law, shall undergo the examination of admission in French or Dutch, at their option. If the appointment is not preceded by an admission examination, the knowledge of the language of the role to which the person concerned wishes to be assigned shall be established by a prior examination." If an anglophone or an Italian presents himself, he must either pass a language test or provide proof of the success of a pre-examination. I am quoting from Article 43: "Applicants who have completed their studies in the German-speaking Region may submit their examination of admission in German provided that they also undergo an examination relating to the knowledge of French or Dutch depending on whether they wish to be assigned to the French or Dutch role." I can provide you with the legislation in question, if you wish. To answer your second question, the law currently provides no incompatibility for the performance of this function. Currently, there is no initiative to amend this Act. Third, the Act provides that the Director General shall be appointed by royal decree. The use of an external selection office should allow for as wide a market survey as possible. The methodology followed by the selection board is intended to guarantee the objectivity of the selection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u35	Thanks for the law class. I think things are gradually becoming clearer. If someone is neither French nor Dutch speaking, but speaks one of these two languages, of course, it is the language of the examination that will determine the linguistic role to which they will be assigned, if they pass the examination. To be sure I understand correctly, I submit to you the case of a Belgian French-speaking graduate of the ULB, for example. Since the current Chairman of the Board of Directors is Francophone, normally this candidate cannot be selected. I did not understand this last point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u36	There are two stages. These are the first criteria to participate in the review. We are not talking here about the linguistic role of the Director General.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u37	So he can participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u38	He may participate because between the beginning of the selection process and the appointment, it is possible that the situation may change. He is therefore entitled to participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u39	Yes, but the candidate knows that it is a Francophone who is president of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u40	It is at the time of appointment that this is taken into account. If the Director General is in such a linguistic role, the Chair of the Board must be in the other role. It will therefore be the first ranking of this linguistic role that will be named.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u41	I'm not sure I understand everything. I think there's still a problem. You say that it is not at the time when he is applying that this issue is being considered, because he can compete, but it is at the time of the decision. At the time of the decision, if the first winner is Francophone, he will not be able to pass because the chairman of the board of directors is a Francophone – if that is still the case at that time. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u42	He will not be appointed because the criteria for appointment are the pass of the exam, the diploma, the qualifications and the linguistic role.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u43	This is a real problem. Unless the Chairman of the Board of Directors changes, it is determined that the next Executive Director must be Dutch-speaking. This is in contradiction to point 7 of the resolution adopted by Parliament in 2007, and still applicable: "The Chamber considers it essential that the Director General of the Federal Agency be chosen after selection from among the winners who have obtained the best result, regardless of his or her linguistic role."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u44	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u45	I can hear you. But this problem can only be solved if the chairman of the board resigns, which would leave the possibility. As a minister, would you not take a step in that direction? Otherwise, there is a problem with the vote that took place in Parliament's plenary session on 26 April 2007, document 51 3089/003, point 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u46	I have to enforce the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u47	I'm not asking you not to apply the law. I'm asking you to do another act. It is not a matter of changing the law, but of telling the chairman of the board of directors that he is committed to withdrawing. It is more important to have the best Director General. The Chairman of the Board of Directors will be chosen in office.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u48	A great statesman said that problems must be solved when they arise. I'll think about it and see what the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u49	I no longer have in mind the dates when it is possible to apply. However, you are well aware that in the current state of your response, the choice of one or the other is strongly influenced. I will therefore ask you to think very quickly because the problem is present, with applications to be submitted. We're facing a real problem. I'm not saying you've been looking for him! We are now clear about the reasoning and it is obvious that it is a problem for some of the candidates. More for Anglophones, but it is a problem for candidates in the situation I am now talking about. For Anglophones, there is a solution, but not for French-speaking Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u50	If he or she is an English-speaking candidate, he or she will pass his or her exam in French. The problem is therefore the same as for Francophones.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u51	Indeed, if he passes his exam in French but he can pass it in Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u52	There are many more foreigners who know French except the Dutch. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u53	It's up to the minister to fix the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u54	Mr President, Minister, following our various exchanges, you had personally visited the company's EZB site in Seneffe to learn in situ about the worrying situation of a company that has been out of nuclear activity since 2008 and whose economic and financial situation was also very challenging but which refused to completely dismantle the site. You shared my desire to avoid at all costs that the story of Best Medical Belgium should be repeated and you felt that EZB had understood the message well. The company undertook to introduce an initial decommissioning plan by 31 December 2016. What about it? Has this deadline been met? Has a complete plan been filed? Has the PSAN analyzed it? What are the conclusions that the PSAN draws from this? What are the next steps and deadlines in this issue that have lasted too long? What about the disposal of EZB waste temporarily stored at UCL? Has a definitive solution been found on this part of the file? What is she?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u55	Mr Nollet, an initial decommissioning plan was actually sent to AFCN within the deadline of 31 December 2016. This plan is currently being analysed within the AFCN, which has not yet reached a conclusion at this time. We're only at the beginning of the year. The operator obtained to send the decommissioning plans also to the ONDRAF which makes the analysis for aspects falling within its competence. This initial decommissioning plan does not guarantee that the operator is actually dismantling but obliges the operator to reflect on the organisation and methodology of dismantling, particularly as regards the waste streams resulting from the dismantling. As regards waste temporarily stored at UCL, the recognised good practice is the storage of waste for a maximum of 10 years from the production of such waste. However, EZB has issued a new proposal for a longer storage period to UCL in return for EZB's financial security. An analysis is currently underway within the AFCN to assess the operational consequences should this proposal be accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u56	Minister, do you have any idea how long it will take for me not to ask the question next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u57	No, but I'll provide you with the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u58	Let me put the question. It's made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u59	Mr President, Minister, Tihange 1 power station has been under arrest since 7 September 2016. There is no need to do all the retroacts of our discussions on the subject. Let us start from the uncertainties that remained at the time of your reply of December 14. 1. The impact of the less compacted area (between 6 and 7 metres of depth under the ultimate rescue building) on the seismic resistance calculations of the building was still under assessment. More than four months after the plant was closed, it is more than time to know what is happening with this evaluation. What about it? Is seismic resistance guaranteed as a minimum at the original level and before 7 September 2016? 2. What is the composition and origin of the embankments located in this less compacted area? 3. Reinforcement of the soil by means of pile injections had become essential. Is this strengthening now being achieved? If not yet, when are the work planned? 4. It is known that inadequate phase of grounding jet activities is one of the factors causing the observed damage. More than four months after the closure of the plant, we have the right to know which other elements have been taken into account. What about it? 5. Has the turbopump provided emergency food water in case of need been raised? If not, what date is this planned for? 6. Is the date of 15 February still possible for a reopening? Or can we already consider that it will have to be reviewed again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Nollet, the Safety Authority (AFCB and Bel V) asked the operator, Electrabel, to provide all the evidence necessary for the safety demonstration, including the seismic resistance calculations of the vessel. At present, documents relating to this safety demonstration are being analysed by the Safety Authority. It is therefore not yet possible to confirm that seismic resistance is guaranteed at the level required by nuclear safety. You asked how long this analysis will take. This response element will be sent to you. In answer to your second question, the analysis of the samples shows the presence of mainly shale (burned shale, black shale and red shale) but also sandstone, traces of coal, pyrite and, to a lesser extent, inflating clay or gypsum. I am responding simultaneously to your third and fifth questions: the reinforcement of the ground under the turbopump space has been carried out. The turbopump has been raised and is being reconnected. After reconnection, the pump will have to be tested and qualified in order to be made available. The soil reinforcement, under the W building, is therefore partially carried out and is still under way. In addition to inadequate phase, the very execution of the grounding jet also had a harmful effect. The construction of the pre-cut with water and the absence of point lifts during the grounding jet also contributed to the observed damage. Finally, the Safety Authority cannot rule on the date of a restart of the Tihange 1 reactor until all safety studies provided by the operator have been evaluated and accepted. As in my previous reply, I can assure you that no relaunch can be envisaged without the approval of the Safety Authority. All safety demonstrations will be reviewed prior to the green light at a restart.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am preparing the next question, but will wait a bit for the e-mail and field visit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u62	Mr President, Minister, in your reply of 14 December to my question concerning the replacement of the lid of the Tihange 1 reactor, you reminded me that this lid was replaced in 1999 and made it clear to me that the analyses carried out under the LTO did not conclude that it was necessary to replace it again. What about Tihange 2 and Tihange 3? Could you take stock of the replacements of lids already made on these two other reactors and those envisaged, specifying the date originally scheduled for their replacement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u63	Mr Nollet, the lid of the Tihange 3 reactor was replaced preventively in 2015 due to possible problems with a primary water stress corrosion cracking. The lid of the Tihange 2 reactor is still in good condition. A replacement of this lid is not planned in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u64	Mr President, Minister, during our exchange on 9 November, I expressed my concern at the discovery in France of a falsification of documents to conceal the real carbon content in the pipes of the cooling systems of nuclear power plants. As a result, the steel can crack or even break during emergency operations requiring a very rapid cooling of the reactor. In your answer, you told me that in Belgium, three components, namely the tubular plate and the two domes of each of the 19 steam generators, fall into the category "potentially affected" but that "at present there is no element of the dossiers or any measure suggesting that Belgian reactors are affected by this problem". In short, there was no particular concern to have, in your opinion, with regard to a different forging technique. Nevertheless, you said, "AFCN continues to inform the ASN (French) of the evolution of the case in France". Can you tell me precisely which Doel and Tihange reactors contain potentially affected components? Do I understand when I say these are the seven, or are they just some? And if so, which ones? I would like to know if, since then, you have received more information and if what you were saying at the time to reassure us is still on the road. So can you tell me what solidity, ductility and fragility tests have been carried out by AFCN on the steam generators currently installed? Can you ask AFCN to make public all the original data and data from these tests that allow it to be reassuring? Can you detail the manufacturing process that would be so different for the components used in Belgium compared to those used in France? I would like to have a clear heart, especially since, like some colleagues, I have received a copy of a particularly appealing Greenpeace letter. Contrary to what was stated in your answer, if we look at the documentation transmitted by Japan Steel Works (JSW) to the Nuclear Regulation Authority (NRA), the method of forging leads well to carbon macro-segregations. Has AFCN reviewed JSW's production records, including the predictive model used for the manufacture and forging of components used in Belgian reactors? If so, what documents were used?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u65	Mr Nollet, in view of your questions, I think it is necessary to go deeper into the details of the manufacture of forged parts used in nuclear power plants. The answers given at the meeting on 19 November were indeed somewhat simplified in relation to the complexity of the scientific subject. First of all, it must be understood that due to the dynamics of the cooling phenomena allowing their solidification, all metal ingots from a forge are heterogeneous in their composition and hence in their local mechanical properties. Thus, all ingots have so-called macro-segregation zones in which the carbon level is higher than the average in the room. The size and carbon content of these areas depends in particular on the size and shape of the ingot. Because they are located in the slowest areas of cooling, their location is indeed predictable. These zones, if not eliminated during subsequent treatments to ingots, may induce mechanical properties of the final part that do not meet the specifications. The three large blacksmiths, Creusot Forge, Japan Steel Works and Japan Casting & Forging Corporation (JCFC), therefore use ingots that contain these macro-segregation zones, but differ greatly in the treatments applied in the subsequent manufacturing process applied to them, to keep only areas of homogeneous mechanical properties. The problem encountered in France concerns ingots full of large dimensions. This type of ingot has been used in our seven nuclear reactors for the bottoms, domes and annular plates of steam generators, with the exception of the Tihange 1 and Tihange 2 steam generator bottoms made from plates. It is therefore these pieces that are considered potentially affected by this problem. All the funds and domes of the steam generators were manufactured by JSW or Creusot Forge, none by JCFC, which is now at the centre of the problem in France. With regard to the coins forged by Creusot Forge, namely Doel 4 and Tihange 3 domes and Doel 4 funds, AFCN confirms that there is no danger, as carbon measurements were taken during their manufacture in areas at risk of macro-segregation. In addition, for Doel 4 funds, Creusot Forge used a well-known directed solidification ingot type ingot to facilitate the elimination of macro-segregation areas. Regarding the coins forged by Japan Steel Works concerning Doel 1, 2 and 3 domes and Tihange 1 and 2 domes, as well as Doel 1, 2 and 3 and Tihange 3, AFCN confirms that there is no danger because JSW uses a method of eliminating macrosegregation zones much more severe than the other two companies. During this process, almost 80% of the ingot material is eliminated, compared to other blacksmiths whose process eliminates 20-45% of the material. The macro-segregation zones are thus eliminated from the final piece. This practice is internationally recognized so that the pieces forged by JSW are not considered problematic in France or Japan. In addition, post-manufactured measurements of carbon levels on certain parts in macro-segregation risk areas showed results in accordance with specifications. The tubular plates of smaller parts are forged from smaller ingots limiting the size and amplitude of the macrosegregation zones. These small ingots are forged by Creusot Forge for Doel 4 and Tihange 3, by JSW for Doel 3 and by JCFC for Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 and 2. In this context, the ASN in France considers that these plates do not pose a safety problem. As explained above, there is no evidence in the files or any measure suggesting that Belgian reactors are affected by this problem. However, the AFCN requested a detailed and complete file from the operator in this regard. This file was received at the end of 2016 and is being evaluated. Depending on the results of the test, the AFCN may request additional tests. In accordance with the ASME rules in force in Belgium, each of these parts has been tested for its mechanical properties (ductility, fragility, etc.) before receiving and installing the component. All results are in accordance with the specifications. With regard to the publication of all the original data and those of its tests, AFCN refers to Article 6, § 3 of the Act of 11 April 1994. Since your question is broad and general, the publication of all these numerous documents would result in a significant workload and workload for the PSAN and would not allow the day-to-day management of its affairs to be optimal. However, if you specify the documents you wish to obtain, we will send them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u66	Minister, thank you, including for this transparency exercise. I will take the time to analyze your answer, so that I can be precise in my requests. However, I have a question in connection with my reactions to other answers. You're telling me there's tests going on. When? Could you also tell me this by e-mail, so that I don't come every week with questions, while the tests are still in progress?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u67	Mr Minister, at the end of December you reached an agreement with your German counterpart to exchange information on the safety of our nuclear power plants. Can you give us a copy of this agreement? Can you explain to me the way in which the committee will operate and the composition of the committee that will be set up? Can you also tell me what information our neighbours will not have access to? What are the methodological or content restrictions? With which other countries has Belgium already concluded agreements for the exchange of information on the safety of our nuclear power plants? What are the differences between the previous agreements and the one with Germany? Why did it take until the end of 2016 to have such an agreement with Germany? Does this agreement involve an abandonment, by the German Minister, of her very heavy criticism of the revival of our cracked plants and the extension of our obsolete plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u68	Mr Nollet, we will provide you with a copy of the agreement. It provides for the establishment of a Belgian-German commission on the exchange of information and experience and on cooperation in the field of nuclear safety, radiation protection and the safety of used fuels and nuclear waste, known as the "Belgo-German Nuclear Committee". It must meet at least once a year. As regards its operating procedures and composition, this subject is currently under discussion between the parties responsible for implementing this agreement, namely AFCN and BMUB – its German counterpart. In addition, they must be kept informed of the general development of the peaceful use of nuclear energy, as well as of the legal provisions relating to nuclear safety, radiation protection and the safety of used fuels and nuclear waste. In addition, the parties must keep each other informed of the experience gained in the operation of the facilities and of measures relating to nuclear safety and radiation protection. However, the undertaking to exchange information is subject to legal provisions in force in both States. Secondly, several agreements providing for exchanges of information concerning the nuclear sector exist between Belgium and third countries, including France, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. However, in the latter case, the agreement is formalized at ministerial level. An agreement had been reached in January 2016 for the annual organisation of bilateral meetings to facilitate collaboration and exchange of information between the two nuclear safety authorities. A first bilateral meeting has already taken place on 5 and 6 April 2016 at AFCN's premises in Brussels. It was planned by the German Environment Minister and I to conclude a ministerial agreement in order to formalise this exchange of information. Since the signing of this text, bilateral cooperation has become legally binding. Finally, it is not my responsibility to answer this question. However, the Minister presented the agreement as a great success and a reliable basis for an open technical discussion between Germany and Belgium on certain nuclear issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u69	Minister, thank you. Although your answer contains a number of information, I do not yet see the difference between this agreement and the one with France and the Netherlands. For Luxembourg, this is a bit normal, since it does not produce nuclear energy. In short, it's the same kind of deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u70	Yes, it's the same type, since it's about exchanging data.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u71	Minister, I still have to read this document in German. I'll do it with pleasure, but later in the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u72	Mr President, Minister, I would like to know which subcontractors are in charge of managing the different swimming pools at nuclear power stations? Who takes care of the Tihange 1, 2 and 3 deactivation pools? Who is in charge of managing the storage pool in the ED building that we talked about earlier? Who takes care of Doel 1, 2, 3 and 4's deactivation pools? Who is responsible for dry container management in Doel?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u73	Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u74	So there are no subcontractors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u75	Electrabel remains responsible...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u76	I know, but I wanted to know if there were any subcontractors for the pools?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u77	There are possible subcontractors but Electrabel remains responsible. We have the contracts, the agreements with Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u78	I don't deny that Electrabel remains responsible. My question was whether there were subcontractors for that part and, if so, what subcontractors were Electrabel's.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u79	I shall take up this question next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u80	All right, we'll postpone the matter until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u81	Mr. President, Minister, the resistance test conducted in December 2011 strongly recommended that a study be carried out on the installation of additional water level measurement devices in swimming pools at the Tihange site. When was this study conducted? What have been the results? What follow-up(s) have been carried out? More broadly, I would still like to know which subcontractors are in charge of managing the different swimming pools?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u82	Mr Nollet, the BEST action plan resulting from the resistance tests of nuclear power plants provided for a study on the implementation of additional pool level measurements at the Tihange site. This study was carried out and led to the installation of these additional swimming pool water level measurements in 2013 in the Tihange 1, 2 and 3 swimming pools. These measures allow reading outside the room as well as retransmission to the control room are independent of conventional power supplies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u83	Mr.President, Minister, the sabotage of Doel 4 took place on the 5th of August, 2014. This deliberate act could have caused a huge catastrophe if the turbine, which is 30 meters long, weighs 740 tons and turns at more than 3,000 turns per minute, had come out of its axis to become a real projectile. In an interview given on November 8, 2014, Electrabel's boss, Mr. Van Troeye stated that Doel 4's sabotage prevented him from sleeping. However, this did not prevent him from restarting the plant one month and ten days later, on 19 December 2014, without knowing the author or authors of this gravism act but with the green light of the Director General of AFCN, who nevertheless thought, in September 2014, that the revival would be at least delicate until the authors were known. When I asked you two years ago about the progress of the investigation, on January 7, 2015, you told me not to know "why it takes so long". When I asked you again a year later, you said to me "understand the criticisms that it takes a lot of time to get a result in an investigation on such an important subject". You said that you had "the hope that, on the side of justice, one would come quickly with a result (...)". It was January 13, 2016. Six months later, on 22 June, I added a question: "In addition to the loss of 65,000 litres of oil in the turbine, was there not another sabotage on the same day?" You were replying to me "that it was also found that one of the three pumps in the emergency food water system was no longer available due to a failure". To my question as to whether this anomaly was to be connected with the act of sabotage on the turbine, you were replying to me that, in view of the current investigation, you could not answer me on this point. At the same meeting in June, I asked you: "Would it not be time for you to speak to the Minister of Justice so that a communication could be established and we could take stock of the situation?" You replied that you had already made a request to the Minister of Justice on this subject, but you added that you could not "force his hand", suggesting clearly that he had not followed your request. Today, in January 2017, 29 months after the sabotage, I come back with the same questions, the same interrogations. These are becoming increasingly burdensome, especially as it appears that the investigation is coming to an end, while the culprit is still running. ENGIE Electrabel had therefore requested an additional investigation by filing an application, at the end of December, to that effect with the investigating judge in Brussels. What's the status of the investigation? What are the results, if only partial and provisional, of this survey? What do we know about the author or authors and the motives? What link can now be made to the other problem identified on the same day at Doel 4? Has the Minister of Justice, since your last exchange with him, shown a greater willingness to communicate on the status of the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u84	Mr Nollet, a new application was actually filed with the investigating judge in Brussels by ENGIE Electrabel at the end of December 2016. Currently, the investigation is still under way. I am as bored as you are by this fact, and I often ask my Justice colleague about it. I have no influence on the investigations and he can't get involved either. I don't have the means to force things. I also understand Electrabel's approach, which wants to know what happened. You can ask me this question every month, every week, but I think it will be more effective to ask my colleague Koen Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u85	Minister, next week I will ask Mr Geens the question. There's no problem. But I need your support, which is why I first went through you. I wanted to know what happens when you ask him not to intervene in the investigation but to inform him about the state of the investigation. We are attentive to the separation of powers, you and me. I interviewed you two years ago, a year ago and six months ago. After two and a half years, no information has yet been provided on the state of the investigation. If it was the terrorism case, you wouldn't have accepted it. People need a minimum of information. We see it in France with Mr Molins who gives information, and you also do so at the Belgian federal level: you are reporting on the state of the situation. Of course, there are things we don't say. But there are others that are said to show that it is moving forward. And on this simple part, which is not to influence the content of the investigation but to influence the fact that it is necessary to inform about the state of the investigation, you have a responsibility and you can move your colleague. Next week, I'll ask him the question. I take this opportunity to ask you if you have anything to report about the incident that took place yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u86	According to the communication from the Crisis Centre, it is a cloud of steam that has been blown by the wind. He entered the chimney and reached a worker who was passing through. He was in the wrong place at the wrong time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u87	Minister, I will ask you a question next week to be more specific.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u88	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gilkinet wishes to turn his questions Nos. 15628 and 15633 into written questions, provided that the Minister can provide the written version of the answer immediately. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u89	Questions Nos 15628 and 15633 by Mr Gilkinet are therefore transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u90	Mr President, in turn, I wish everyone my best wishes for the new year. Minister, a framework law on PNR was adopted at the last plenary session at the end of December. By transport sector, separate R &amp; D programmes will be provided to regulate the further modalities. One of the first sectors for which an RB should be drawn up is the aviation sector. This will probably be the easiest, as we are moving towards a European approach. There is also a reasonable basis for this at the moment. For the other sectors there is a need for an impact study per mode of transport. That is necessary, Minister, in order to have a look at a number of points which I shall be discussing later. Our country wants to play a leading role in Europe for these sectors, namely rail, bus and water transport. That is not bad in itself, but we must ensure that we keep PNR workable, preferably in an international context. In the past, I have already asked you questions about this in plenary. We have a lot of questions. In the last two weeks many questions have been raised and there has been debate and communication on this issue. How many passengers will be involved in PNR on the railways, in buses? What impact will this have on passenger services and mobility? How will PNR be financed by the State and the carriers concerned? What is feasible and what is not? Those questions have not yet been sufficiently examined at the present time in order to arrive at concrete R &amp; D projects. It is not only the impact of the measures that needs to be examined. We also call on the government to consult at international level in the further development of the CBAs. It really makes no sense for our country to do so alone, at least the neighbouring countries have to go along with it. We must try to achieve an integrated European approach. Consultation with European bodies, rail and neighbouring countries is therefore crucial, as well as consultation with the sector. Besides, the framework law provides for this, and that is very important. The BIVV announced early this week that it would like to offer and expand its expertise. For example, it wants to join the FPS Home Affairs project in relation to PNR, inter alia by investigating the ways in which this control can be carried out and could be circumvented. I come to my questions, Minister. Are you planning an impact study by sector for PNR? If so, why? If not, why not? If that is the case, what exactly is being investigated? What's your timing? How do you intend to achieve an international approach, both with the European institutions and with neighbouring countries? Has there been any contact with the sectors for further consultation? Can you explain the FPS Home Affairs project in relation to PNR, in which the BIVV is involved? What does the project mean? What's the timing? How is the BIVV involved in this project? In what way does cooperation take place, since the BIVV has been transformed into a company for social purposes and is no longer a public body? In what way will the BIVV be reimbursed for its contribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u91	Mr President, the impact of the processing of passenger data on obligations for different types of transporters is discussed by default during our consultation with the transport sectors. The purpose of these consultations is to take account of the specific nature of the sectors and their commercial interests. Therefore, PNR systems are by no means intended to harm the commercial interests of transport modes. On the contrary, it may even be a commercial argument in their case. A business analysis describes in detail which flow follows the data from each specific sector and how they are processed in the system. The analysis has already been made for aviation. The other sectors will be addressed in 2017. With regard to the international approach, I can say that consultations have already taken place with neighbouring countries on the extension of the scope to other transport modes, as mentioned in the parliamentary debates on the PNR Act. You call for this, but you do not have to call for it. What is the point of using PNR only for a TGV that departs in Germany, drives over Belgium and arrives in France? There's no point in that at all. This can only be done if international consultations are held with neighbouring countries. I can tell you that in the meantime the Netherlands has already expressed itself, it is also asking party. At the end of January, if I am not mistaken on 26 and 27 January, I have another meeting with the Ministers for the Interior in Malta. Malta is president now. I had it put on the agenda there in order to have an exchange of views with my fellow Members. So there is no one-sidedness here. But we had to register in the law that we open the door to that. Once again, however, there can be no one-sidedness in this area, which would be total nonsense. In addition, consultations were held several times with the travel agencies and tour operators sector. I have also personally received the representation of the European rail transport sector in order to overcome some misunderstandings. As already mentioned, we will also see them together with the neighbouring countries. In addition, numerous consultations will be held with the other sectors concerned, in preparation for the various royal decisions to be issued for these sectors. However, the priority is currently the aviation sector. We're dealing with things systematically. In its press release of 9 January 2017, the BIVV refers to the PNR project of the FPS Home Affairs. This project team has several goals, such as preparing for the transposition of the European directive into Belgian legislation in consultation with the transport sectors and in cooperation with the competent security and intelligence services. In addition, the project team is also responsible for the establishment of the Passenger Information Unit, the PIU, the integration of the competent services into that Belgian PIU, the link to the European structures and units of the other Member States and, not least, the realisation of the entire IT infrastructure and applications to enable the processing of PNR data in accordance with the legislation. We are certainly interested in this initiative by the BIVV to have a number of study assignments carried out by the BIVV and have agreed that this can be discussed further, so that complementarity can be sought with already implemented initiatives. The BIVV will initially use its own funds for this purpose. Finally, I would like to add that your statement that the BIVV would be transformed into a non-profit association is not correct. You may refer to the non-profit organisation, which the BIVV works with and carries out study assignments for the BIVV. You can see this non-profit as some kind of sub-contractor. That's the right context.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u92	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I understand there's going to be an impact study by sector. The Minister explained that it was not the intention to damage the economic interests of the sectors but rather the intention to participate in economic interests. There is a need to discuss this with neighbouring countries. I look forward to the results of the meeting with his colleagues in Malta on 26 and 27 January. I hope that the next period will be as wide-ranging as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u93	Best wishes to you, Mr President, Minister. I hope that we will have interesting debates in this committee. As far as the ASTRID system is concerned, it is a public company governed by private law which was established in 1998 and started providing its services from 2001. It has about 56,000 users, including police, firefighters, the Red Cross, Fluxys, transport companies and hospitals. During the attacks of 22 March, the ASTRID network found itself in the eye of the cyclone, as the unprecedented overload observed that day put the network on its knees, greatly complicating the task of the rescue services. The ASTRID network reached a completely new limit of physical capacity on that day, due in particular to the influx of communications from reinforcements from other provinces trying to connect. This episode also highlighted the problematic financial situation of ASTRID: the annual budget is close to €45 million and the cumulative deficit today would amount to €115 million, despite the allocation of €46 million that you, or the government, had agreed to in 2015. As a reminder, in 2013 and 2014, ASTRID did not receive any euro from the government. Finally, the last management contract expired in 2008. Since then and until December 2016, it had not been renewed, which posed many problems. On 23 December, the government announced that a new management contract had been approved for the period 2016-2020 setting out investments for this period of up to €117 million, which would allow for replacements, optimising the quality of the systems, optimising radio coverage and developing new applications. This new management contract for ASTRID is an important element in the right direction. I would like to ask you in this context the following questions. What does the management contract provide for in terms of ASTRID's structural financing? What are the government's planned allocations by 2020 and how does the public enterprise intend to finance its €115 million structural deficit? Furthermore, could you give a precise list of the investments to be made in the amount of EUR 117 million? Is a calendar available? What specific arrangements have been made in this new management contract, drawing lessons from the events of March 22, 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u94	Mr Vanden Burre, I wish you all the best. I am already anticipating the exciting debates that we can have, but I think that here it will be rather factual and not a big debate. I'm answering your first question. The new management contract sets out the obligations and investments for the period 2016-2020 between the Federal State and ASTRID, SA under public law. The management contract maintains the principle of financing through two channels. 1. The annual funding of operating expenses, which means maintenance of the system and operating costs, is subsidized by an entry in the budget of the Internal FPS in the general budget of expenditure. The government has set aside an annual allocation of €46.5 million for 2016 and the next four years. 2. Investments worth EUR 117 million over five years are covered by the revenue generated by the annual subscriptions subscribed by users. The Board of Directors of ASTRID, on 10 May of last year, concluded that it was necessary to clear the value of the circulating assets resulting from structural underfunding. In accordance with Article 6 of the articles of association of the public limited liability company, an extraordinary general meeting, to be held in the first quarter of 2017, will decide to reduce the share capital by EUR 100 million, in order to clear the losses resulting from operating subsidies insufficiently paid since 2009. After the capital reduction, the company's own funds will still reach about 46 million. Article 6 of the ASTRID Statute provides for the procedure for this capital reduction as follows. The share capital may be increased or reduced by decision of the general meeting to the conditions required by the Company Code. Such a decision is effective only after approval by royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers. I now answer your second question. The investment plan includes a total investment of 117 million, of which 46 million were already decided in the period 2012-2015 by the Board of Directors, given the urgency. Approximately two-thirds of this investment programme must be received within the first five years. The investments are intended to ensure that ASTRID is able to continue to guarantee its delivery of services and to meet the new needs of users. The work results in the following lines of strength. The first is to guarantee and maintain reliability (€64 million). This means replacing outdated infrastructure. Various important components of the ASTRID system are more than 15 years old and need to be replaced as a matter of urgency. The telephonic network for the recall of volunteer firefighters (paging) was renewed in 2016. Radio network renewal work will continue in 2017 and 2018. The new dispatching infrastructure will also be put into operation this year. Secondly, coverage and capacity (20.5 million are planned) should be maintained and expanded. Maintaining the level of coverage requires constant adaptations and modifications in a constantly changing environment. Provision is made for the installation of relay antennas in sensitive areas such as airports and Seveso industries and the addition of carriers on some of these relay antennas. The third project consists of an increase in quality (also for 20.5 million). These are investments in farm safety, centralisation and hosting of central infrastructure in several new, highly secure data centres. This will achieve a much higher level of service and reduce the impact of potential incident management interventions. ASTRID also invests in cybersecurity systems. Finally, the aim is to develop new services for users (12 million are planned), notably in the field of mobile data and the extension of the Blue Light Mobile service by strengthening priority communications and by adding the voice telephony function in addition to the existing data service. For your third question, some investments were already included in the draft management contract. Further initiatives were taken in accordance with the lessons learned on March 22, 2016. First, additional frequencies are programmed. In order to provide more capacity, ASTRID needs more radio frequencies. In the meantime, ASTRID has been authorized to use additional Defence-owned frequencies. Brussels' capacity increased last November. New communication channels have been installed on thirteen relay antennas in Brussels. Next, the communication capacity of the radio network will be increased structurally. ASTRID will implement, between mid-2017 and mid-2018, a reserve capacity on the national network that can be activated in the event of a crisis. This year, several masts will benefit from an additional control channel. This is essential for the expansion of capacity. With regard to the improvement of mobile deployment capacity, ASTRID will in 2017 be introducing means of satellite transmission via the mobile mast, a truck used to increase the coverage and capacity of the radio network on an ad hoc basis. A second vehicle, which will be accredited as a priority vehicle, will also be put into service. As far as monitoring is concerned, ASTRID plans to acquire a real-time monitoring and management tool for the radio network in 2017 so that it can monitor the situation on the network closely. This tool, under development, will enable the additional capacity set up in the network. Finally, the User Advisory Committee examines a series of operational elements. This includes better training in radio use and radio disciplines. The extension of ASTRID's mobile data service, Blue Light Mobile, which uses the three national 3G and 4G networks, will benefit, in the first quarter of 2017, from several improvements: the possibility of making telephone calls and priority access for both voice calls and data transfer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u95	Minister, thank you for your full answers. I will look at it in detail in the full report so that I can analyse all the points. After the analysis that has been made, particularly in the commission of inquiry into the events of 22 March, we see that things are being put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u96	Mr. President, Minister, within the federal police, the Directorate for Combating Serious and Organized Crime (DJSOC) has been performing key functions and has often been under the spotlight in recent months, particularly for its role in the fight against terrorism and tax fraud. The numerous hearings in the committee of inquiry on the 22 March attacks have already pointed to the enormous difficulties that this leadership is facing in terms of chronic understaffing and increasing workload. At the end of December, feedback from the field indicated the very high number of sick leave days taken within the DJSOC, a symptom of a significant illness at work for most staff members. Indeed, in September 2015, the total number of sick leave days was 2,225 on an annual basis, out of the 292 full-time equivalents (FTEs) that DJSOC has. By December 2016, this number would have increased to 6,313 days, including 247 persons (out of a total of 292) who would have taken at least 1 day off during the last 12 months. In other words, it was not a few people who took very long sick days. This affects a very important part of the staff. Minister, my questions are as follows. Can you confirm these alarming figures? Otherwise, can you give me the total number of sick leave days taken at the DJSOC at the end of 2014, at the end of 2015 and at the end of 2016? How do these figures for the DJSOC compare with the average of the federal police as a whole? What do you intend to do to improve the working conditions of DJSOC officials? Do you plan to increase the total number of FTEs, today 292, at DJSOC in 2017 and in the years to come?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u97	Mr Vanden Burre, the figures quoted were indeed reported by DJSOC to the Directorate-General of the Judicial Police of the Federal Police. To be precise, this is the total number of absences due to medical reasons. Workers' accidents, pregnant women, illnesses and days lost as a result of reduced benefits due to illness are referred to. This is recorded in the DJSOC's GALOP registry created on May 1, 2015. The figure of 292 FTE for the DJSOC comes from the Royal Decree of 27 October 2015 laying down the distribution of the personnel of the Federal Police. They are actually a theoretical figure. The personnel actually present vary almost every month due to mobility, incoming and outgoing detachments, GRG reinforcements – for example DJSOC Terro – and pension departures. Prior to the TO3, the DJSOC, the result of the merger of 4 former DJ central directorates, could call on 446 FTEs to carry out its missions. The following figures are based on the DJSOC GALOP register for 2016 and 2015. The latter was created on 1 November 2014, a year for which there are no global figures. For 2015, the number of days of absence for illness is 8,037.6 for 262 sick people. In 2016, a total of 6,934.2 days are required for 257 people. For 2014, the federal police had 343,601 sick days, or 8.35%; for 2015, a total of 347,518 sick days, or 9.04%. We do not yet have figures for 2016. For your good information, please be aware that in response to Question No 15333 of 6 December 2016 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, DGJ carried out this type of analysis. I would therefore refer you to this answer. That said, overall, DJSOC's figure is in line with the federal police average, although as a central management, but like the other central directorates of the DGJ, DJSOC has a higher disease rate than the deconcentrated directorates. In answer to your third question, the working conditions of DJSOC officials are not bad. The DJSOC was impacted by the reorientation of collaborators as part of the process of optimisation. The latter, once finalized, should give way to a period of greater stability. At the same time, a reflection is under way on a "well-being" action plan to be put in place internally of the DJSOC. In response to your fourth question, the DJSOC submitted a request for capacity building to the DGJ after a risk analysis. This option should be put in perspective with other opportunities for improvement and subsequently validated by the Federal Police Steering Committee. I also want to add this. Given the number of days of illness, 9% memory, I think we need to invest in well-being in the police because it pays immediately. The figures may not be correct, but the 9% absence represents a budget of over EUR 200 million per year. We cannot reach 0 per cent, but imagine that this rate of 9 per cent is down to 8 per cent, which amounts to one-ninth of that huge amount. It's worth it. So I asked the federal police to come with proposals to invest in the welfare of the federal police, among other things, to reduce the rate of absenteeism due to illness.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u98	Minister, we hear it and see it at every hearing or at every confrontation we have with the DJSOC in particular or the people who work there. It is true that there is obviously a very large increase. The context has necessarily changed - it is not to you that I have to say this - over the last few years, particularly with the fight against terrorism. The workload is increasing very significantly while, as you pointed out, there have been restructurings that have resulted in a sharp decrease in the number of people working in the services grouped within the DJSOC. Of course, at some point there is an extremely strong tension and there is still a great deal of internal difficulties in relation to the tasks that must be carried out in the fight against terrorism and the fight against major tax fraud. We have already had the debate on OECDFO. That's right, there are demands that are made to increase the workforce. I hope that these requests can be echoed by you and the federal police leadership because they are crucial issues in the challenges we have today, whether it be terrorism or the fight against major tax fraud, at such a centralized level. It is well known that at some point the objective was to decentralize these functions. I believe that central functions in these areas are also crucial and certainly in partnerships with our neighbouring countries or at European level. We will certainly come back to that, but I really hope that the trend will be to strengthen these services, in contrast to what has been achieved in recent years. The context, of course, has also changed. We'll certainly have a chance to get back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic561x.u99	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 15628 and Question No 15628 Mr Gilkinet's 15633 will be converted into a written question, as Mr Nollet has already asked. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 15660 Mr Terwingen (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Vanheste's 15688 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne's 15701 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne's 15712 will be dealt with in the Infrastructure Committee. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 157, by Mr Maingain: Question No 15717 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu Mr Blanchart's 15733 were postponed.
