ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u1	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the possibility of using cameras worn in uniform for police officers in intervention is a project that had already been discussed in the previous legislature, at the initiative of the then Minister of the Interior. On that occasion, a session of our committee was devoted to hearing from the various actors on the ground on the appropriateness of this measure. There were essentially three things that came out of it. The first, which is not the least, was that experiments in this field showed – images in support – that the recordings made by cameras of this type were perfectly untapped to judge a situation of intervention. The second is that in a society where images are becoming more and more important, the conditions for using such a tool did not fail to raise the concerns of several bodies responsible for the defence of individual rights. Indeed, in order for images to have probative value, so that they are not given a speech that wrongs the truth, it is necessary that they be taken constantly and not only at the will of one of the stakeholders - which would question the respect of the privacy of everyone. Thirdly, it appeared that the infrastructure required for the storage of the data produced represented a certain cost and that the question of the appropriateness of such an investment could legitimately arise in the light of the police's budgetary needs. But it is well known that what the mayor of Antwerp wants, the federal government wants. And following events between the police and a group of young people in this mayor's territory, it appears that you are considering resuming this project. From a technical point of view, what has changed in recent years for you to think of a device of this type that is more exploitable today? If you were to move forward with this project, how do you plan to put in place the necessary infrastructure for data transfer, storage and control? Knowing that the population must be able to consider that it is confronted with similar police arrangements wherever it is located, how do you envisage financing such equipment for all police areas, on the understanding that the areas are already in high demand from a financial point of view?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u2	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, as my colleague has pointed out, in an incident between law enforcement officials and young people in a neighbourhood of Borgerhout, the issue of bodycam use has come back in the news. This type of mechanism is the subject of debate, particularly among the main stakeholders. Thus, the president of SLFP has repeatedly expressed his doubts about the legal and practical dimensions of the tool in the press. On the other hand, in Wallonia, for example, the head of the Namur police force plebiscite the arrival of bodycams to perform first tests with certain intervention services. In the press, he says that "the use will be largely supervised: the police officer will have to warn the target person before using his camera and will have to close it at the end of the operation; upon his return, the images will be downloaded directly and they will not be accessible to anyone". The bell sound is relatively similar to Charleroi where the spokesman of the police zone also supported the police equipment with these bodycams. A legislative project is under way. A bill authorizing the wearing of cameras had been approved at the government table and an opinion had been sought from the Council of State. Do you already have this opinion requested from the Council of State? If so, what conclusions have been notified to you? With regard to consultations with the parties concerned, namely, first of all the law enforcement agencies, what is the state of play in the discussions in order to provide guarantees for the reluctance expressed by the trade unions? With regard to privacy, in particular the protection of audiovisual data, what measures do you prefer at this stage? Can you give us a general agenda in relation to the development of this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat what my colleagues have already explained. Following the serious incident in Borgerhout and the statements of the mayor of Antwerp, Bart De Wever, the bodycams debate has come to the fore. A draft legislation is under way and an opinion of the Council of State has been requested. This system has already been used in other cities, including Berlin, and has generated much debate, among other things, on the management of such a system and its effectiveness. The testimonies in the press indicate that images are often unusable, not to mention the privacy issue. Minister, what is the operating framework proposed in the bill under discussion in the government regarding the use of bodycams? I remember that the police in Malines have already resorted to such bodycams. What legal framework did it use to do so? What is the result of this pilot experiment? Finally, in terms of timing, when will we have the opportunity to discuss it in the Committee on the Interior?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your interest in this matter. A draft amendment to the legislation on cameras is currently being prepared, in particular to include rules on the use of cameras by the police in the law on the police function and, among other things, to allow them to use more widely what is known as bodycams. This draft law was approved by the Council of Ministers on 20 July. Both the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police and the Standing Committee on Local Police were invited to give an opinion on the text. It was also forwarded for opinion to the Privacy Commission and the Council of State. Once all these opinions have been delivered and the text has eventually been adapted to these opinions, it will be discussed again in the Council of Ministers at second reading. After final approval, it may be tabled in the House and will be the subject of in-depth parliamentary debate. My wish is to table it in Parliament as soon as possible. I'm coming to bodycams. For the moment, a local operation is mainly envisaged, with a rather limited technical impact. Since the surplus value is local, funding would rise to that level. Studies have been carried out on bodycams. They showed that the latter could add value to police work. Je me réfère à cet égard à l'étude de Sander Flight, The potential added value of bodycams for police work An international literature research (Politie & Science, Amsterdam, 2017). Moreover, in view of the demand from the field and the desire to have a legal framework enabling technological advances, it seemed appropriate to leave the possibility – and not the obligation – for the police to set up this mechanism by providing a suitable legal framework, both for the decision on use and the recording of and access to the data. We hope to be able to submit the text to Parliament as soon as possible so that there will be a substantive debate on this dossier. In all cases, I would like to stress the importance of the principle of proportionality, the aim being not to allow any technology to be used at any time or at any time, nor to impose the use of certain types of cameras on all police areas. The use of cameras must be considered and decided on taking into account the intended purposes and the use to be made of them. Both European regulations and the draft law insist on this principle. The Mechelen-Willebroek police area has been working with the mayor, the public prosecutor's office and trade union organisations through the basic consultation committee to jointly determine the guidelines for the use of body cameras. These cameras are used as part of what is currently permitted by law. When the images are recorded, they are kept according to the rules laid down by the "Cameras" law. Those likely to be filmed are informed of the presence of these cameras and therefore cannot be filmed without their knowledge. In addition, the Mechelen-Willebroek Police Area has taken the necessary security measures for data transfer, storage, visualization and control.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answers. First of all, I note that there is no question of imposing the use of this material on all police areas. I am reassured, especially since you have made it clear that it is up to the areas to pay for it. Having said that, do you have any idea what the cost of this equipment is?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u6	As with any technology, you can buy a Fiat or Rolls-Royce. I can't give you an exact amount, but I know there are many possibilities. So the quality of the images also depends on the technologies used. But for every material usable by the federal or local police, a market study is carried out...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u7	A market center! Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u8	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I have taken note of the fact that you were waiting for the various opinions, including that of the Council of State, before adopting a definitive position at the government table and presenting it to Parliament as soon as possible. But as we can see, the reactions are not unanimous with regard to bodycams. It is nevertheless wise that this possibility should be left to the police areas in accordance with the needs of the field and with what the police officers may feel in view of their local specificities. In any case, it is important that a legal framework be adopted and approved in this area in order to provide the best possible framework for areas that would use this type of mechanism in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. The debate will be interesting in the Committee on the Interior. This is not a "black or white" debate. We are sometimes very opposed, but here it will be worth exploring the issue in depth. A bodycam can be to the advantage of the police forces as well as the demonstrators. There will be a fairly fine balance to find. I would be interested to see what changes with regard to the experience of Malines. You said that the police areas would finance the equipment, so the budgetary impact will have to be measured. This is a very interesting debate which, I hope, will be conducted in depth by listening to all the actors on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u10	Mr President, Minister, this summer the press echoed a worrying situation - albeit well known to the field - concerning the road police. Indeed, it appears that the staffing deficit is not less than 25 % in relation to the framework. In Hainaut, in particular, the lack of resources is acute and this puts road and motorway users at risk. For example, with regard to night patrols, 3 teams of 2 persons are responsible for covering the entire territory of the province. This, in case of absence or illness, leaves people in need of help in the situation to sometimes have to wait until an hour before a new police intervention. The fact is, to say the least, worrying and the question is quite simple. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Do you have an answer to this glaring lack of resources, which makes the work of police officers very difficult and undermines the confidence of citizens, road users in the effectiveness of the police? How long do you guarantee that the road police framework will be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u11	The answer is two times yes. However, I will give you a more elaborate answer. Mr Thiébaut, there are still significant deficits in some federal police services, but the delay is being reduced. The police recruited 1,600 people last year. These are still in police schools. You know as well as I do that training lasts at least a year. The recruits will soon graduate. This year, we will be recruiting 1,400 people. The same will apply in 2018 and 2019. Thereafter, it will depend on the next government. So there is an effort to catch up. There are no more budget cuts, which has freed up 15 million recurrent euros to be used this year for equipment, motorcycles and vans as well as for additional recruitment for the road police. This is not only a problem of people, it is also a problem of degraded equipment. This will bring results in terms of capacity as of next year and years. So I am aware of the problem. We are doing this, as we are doing for all the others. For years, there was a difference in capacity between OT 2 and OT 3. We must allow services to evolve. Some are priorities, but I must constantly show a concern for balance when reinforcements are needed. We can make an opposite choice, but that's not my case, by assigning recruits who leave school to the OT 3 service. This year, we have made tremendous efforts to modernize the equipment. Recruitment has begun, but the new officers will only arrive next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dumery's 20232 is being postponed because Mrs Dumery is currently present at the Council of Europe. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Frédéric's 20251 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u13	Mr President, Minister, it is well known that the deployment of police forces around major sporting events, including football matches, is all the more necessary because the level of threat remains high and the crowds gathered in the stadiums are vulnerable targets, as has been shown by previous attacks. However, I am quite surprised to learn that at another major sporting gathering, the Lvo Van Damme Memorial, a well-known Belgian meeting of the Diamond League of Athletics, a large number of spectators found that no particular safety measures appeared to have been taken to avoid unfortunate incidents. I do not think for a second that the public safety of stadiums can be considered differently depending on the sport that takes place there. So, could you clarify to me what public security measures were taken at this event? And in general, what are the objective criteria that determine the deployment of law enforcement forces around large-scale sporting events?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, first of all I welcome you and congratulate you on the happy event. I hope the baby's doing well. As far as mommy's concerned, I see she's in good shape. Within the framework of level 3 of the general threat established by the OCAM for Belgium as a whole, national or international sports organisations, such as the Ivo Van Damme Memorial, are considered soft targets and are therefore potential targets taken seriously by the authorities. With regard to these targets, the Chiefs of Staff are asked to conduct an operational risk analysis on the basis of which they plan their security arrangements. Here's the general rule. With regard specifically to the Van Damme Memorial, an enhanced police presence was deployed on site to ensure the safety of the event. Security measures have been taken in consultation with the local authorities, the organiser, the police and the caretakers concerned. I don't understand the comments of the spectators. Being there, I've seen many policemen, not all in uniform, sometimes in plain clothes. I believe that all measures have been taken to ensure security. The same procedure has been used, namely that a risk analysis has taken place with the local police, the Brussels police, and I think that has gone well. The viewer's impression was that it was sometimes difficult for (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u15	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his full response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u16	Minister, an association of Flemish volunteer firefighters was concerned about the forthcoming implementation of the Royal Decree providing that firefighters should only go into intervention as a team of six. We know this very well. No doubt you also received my letter, which I sent to you in my capacity as President of the Hainaut Centre area, asking you to postpone the entry into force of this standard. Several areas expressed the same wish. The reason given is not the lack of resources for recruitment – but you are aware of this concern, since you also mention it when you address the issue of the number of police officers. We find it very difficult to recruit firefighters because of the time taken by the selection process and the too small number of winners. Therefore, we find it very difficult to reach the minimum number of firefighters allowing the departure at six, twenty-four hours a day. Minister, are you considering this postponement? At this morning's meeting of my Zone College, I was told of echoes from your department, according to which the situation of each area would be analysed. In this way, you would grant each of them permission to postpone the requirement of a departure to six instead of four. Can you confirm that? Is it, at least, under discussion? There's been a question that's been bothering me for a while. In my view, this requirement to leave for six is the result of the reform of the fire services. However, the 2007 law provides that the reform is financially neutral for the municipalities. Are we not facing a case of additional funding for them? That being said, I must admit that federal staffing is increasing and that, for the time being, it is sufficient for ongoing commitments. You have to be fair. On the other hand, they will not be enough to finance the departures of six. An additional cost is inevitable. Is it not logical, therefore, to ask the federal government to ensure that the legal commitment to financial neutrality of the reform of fire services is respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u17	Mr Thiébaut, Article 12 of the Royal Decree of 10 November 2012 effectively provides that relief zones shall be granted a transitional period until 31 December 2017 to comply with the provisions of that Decree. During this five-year transitional period, the zones had to plan for the gradual implementation of the provisions of the decree. In 2012, they were not told to do anything until December 31, 2017. They were told that they had an obligation to leave with six people by truck, but that they had a transitional period of five years to comply with this royal decree. Compliance by relief zones with these rules is of paramount importance for the safety of those involved. The principle of the departure of six firefighters, including one non-commissioned officer, was already included in the circular of 1 February 2008 supplementing the circular of 9 August 2007 on the most rapid adequate assistance. Honestly, I must tell you that this measure was requested by the zone chiefs, with whom my predecessors had organized a consultation. In the context of the reform, particular attention has always been paid to the need for relief services to have sufficient personnel to carry out civil security missions. Since 2010, municipal fire services have been encouraged to work in a zonal perspective. Federal budgets have been made available to municipalities in order to contribute to the effective preparation of the establishment of relief zones. These budgets, worth just over €21 million a year, were to contribute to the hiring of staff. The agreements concluded in 2010 and 2011 between the Federal State, on the one hand, and all the municipalities organising a fire department located in the territory of an area, on the other, provided for the recruitment of additional personnel to optimize the operational coverage of the area. From 2012, the pre-areas were given legal personality and funding to enable them to implement their Zonal Operational Organisation Plan. The plan, based on a risk analysis, should include the identification of the human and material resources necessary for the effective operational functioning of the area, including the recruitment of personnel. In 2014, a complementary federal allocation of 19 million was granted to pre-areas to ensure the operational operation of the relief areas scheduled to be set up in 2015. This was in addition to the one that pre-areas received since 2012 and which has also been increased. Indeed, it reached 32 million. As a result, the federal budget for pre-areas increased from just over $21 million in 2010 to $51 million in 2014. Since the establishment of the zones on 1 January 2015, the Federal State's effort to contribute to the commitment of operational personnel has not been weakened. The allocation of $32 million to pre-areas is now provided to relief areas under the core federal allocation. The areas are also funded through complementary federal allocations consisting of four parts, one of which relates to the operational operation of the relief zones that had already been paid to the pre-areas in 2014. This component of the allocation amounts to over €82 million this year. As a result, pre-financing has already been provided and the areas that have not yet completed this portfolio have had a financial advantage. This shift towards a six-person departure is therefore foreseen in the funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u18	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer's 20375 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u20	Minister, the Tihange 2 and Doel 3 files have been running a lot of ink in recent years. Of course, I would like us to stop talking about it, but systematically we are dealing with new twists. We learned from the press about the positioning of two Belgian engineers from UCL, who produced a study that called into question the findings of AFCN in relation to the integrity of the tanks of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. The two engineers, whose technical knowledge and skills cannot be questioned, believe that hydrogen-related defects evolve over time and that Electrabel's method of calculation is questionable. As parliamentarians, we are obliged to ask you again, since these are not positions of anti-nuclear activists. These are questions, positionings, analyses of scientists, which deserve answers. I have taken note of the Agency's communication, in particular of the operator. Nevertheless, I must confess that I am still concerned and as a representative of the population, I must ask you again to account for these new elements and to question you about your position, even if you often say that you trust the agency; this was often your political position. In the face of new data that cannot leave you with any marble and that must be taken seriously, I would like to know how you will react.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u21	I have another question about the Tihange power plant. We're here on...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u22	At the request of the cabinet, the questions were merged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u23	Mr President, I have three different questions. I'm not talking about Tihange 1 now. It is known that an additional academic study (which Mr. Thiébaut has just mentioned) fundamentally questions the decision to restart the cracked reactors of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. My question was not about substance because the debate will be held in the nuclear safety sub-committee. My question is specific and relates only to the conception by AFCN of its role in this kind of situation where a scientific debate is taking place. Is that the question you wanted to join? Perfect! It is likely that the publication of such a study does not appeal to AFCN, but that this institution refuses to go to the end of the scientific dialogue seems to be a real problem. How can we justify a refusal to go to the end of the dialogue when one of the Agency's directors publicly acknowledged that scientific literature on the subject is so far extremely rare? This same agency is locked in an attitude and approach to this non-scientific point of refusal of dialogue with researchers whose only wish is to feed this extremely rare literature. What is the fear of AFCN when it thanks the researchers for their interest and reflections but does not follow up on their remaining questions? Could you, Minister, order AFCN to resume the scientific dialogue, to go to the end of the controversy and therefore to answer the remaining questions of Professors Boonen and Peirs? I am not taking a position on the substance, but only on the necessary scientific dialogues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u24	Mr. Chair, gentlemen, you know very well that I have complete confidence in the AFCN and its experts. Mr. Thiébaut repeated it well. In the past, it has been listening to the people you mention on several occasions and has carefully analysed their criticisms. Since the discovery of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 hydrogen flakes in 2012, AFCN has been fully transparent in this case. Throughout the analysis process, the Agency provided voluntary feedback. The AFCN also promotes the exchange of knowledge and experience, a common practice in the nuclear sector. In the complex case of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks, AFCN has always appealed, when necessary, to the expertise available in Belgium and abroad. With regard to the report of Professors René Boonen and Jan Peirs of December 2016, AFCN received it. This is why AFCN invited Professor Boonen in January 2017 to listen to his position and to have a technical discussion on his criticisms of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tank analysis. The AFCN disagreed with Professor Boonen's position and told him during this meeting a series of errors that jeopardized his position. On January 16, 2017, AFCN submitted a detailed technical response to Professor Boonen. One of the latter's concerns is the amount of hydrogen needed for hydrogen flakes. Dr.Boonen states that the initial amount of hydrogen in steel (measured during the production of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks) is insufficient to explain the appearance of flakes such as those measured during ultrasonic inspections in 2014. Professor Boonen's reasoning for reaching this conclusion is wrong. It is based on a lack of knowledge of the phenomenon of hydrogen migration into steel during the manufacture of the tank. When a steel tank cools, during casting it gradually passes from liquid to solid state. Dr. Boonen assumes that hydrogen does not migrate into steel by following this gradual solidification. According to him, the solidified parts are gradually saturating to hydrogen, which, according to him, would explain that too little hydrogen has migrated to the last frozen parts, that is to say, near the areas that will ultimately form the inner part of the wall of the reactor vessel. However, it is generally accepted in thermodynamics that migration can follow progressive solidification so that hydrogen tends to remain in still liquid areas and accumulates in areas in the last position. It is in this area that hydrogen flakes are now observed at Doel 3 and Tihange 2. This explains why Professor Boonen largely underestimates the amount of hydrogen present after forging in flake formation areas. There are various examples of newly forged parts with hydrogen flake density comparable to Doel 3 and Tihange 2. This is the case of Exhibit VB395 which was studied using destructive tests in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tank analysis. None of Dr. Boonen's concerns and questions question the conclusions of the Belgian Nuclear Safety Authority on the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. These are the questions of the professor, both in his analysis and at the January meeting. AFCN states that Messrs. Boonen and Peirs do not provide any new evidence that has not yet been studied and therefore do not consider it necessary to conduct further studies. AFCN informed Professor Boonen in March 2017. It is with conviction that the AFCN confirms its conclusions regarding the authorization to restart the two reactors. The defects observed in the walls of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks are hydrogen flakes. These appeared during the production of the tanks and this is consistent with the number of flakes, their shape, orientation and location in the macrosegregation zones of the reactor tank. These defects have not changed in number or size since the start of operation of the two reactors. The structural integrity of their tanks is within safety standards and the presence of hydrogen flakes has no influence on the safety of reactor operations. AFCN drew its conclusions carefully, independently, after a process of analysis that lasted several years, bringing together numerous scientific studies carried out by both Belgian and foreign experts. The position of AFCN and its technical subsidiary Bel V has been confirmed by peers worldwide. In its decision-making, the AFCN continues to place a central focus on its mission to protect the population, workers and the environment from the dangers of radioactivity. The AFCN continues to follow this issue closely and will not hesitate to intervene if there is reason to do so. I would also like to inform you that, in keeping with one of its values, which is to foster dialogue based on mutual respect and active listening, AFCN has invited Professors Boonen and Peirs to discuss their concerns and the conclusions of their study. The AFCN was in discussion, answered questions. But at one point, we have to draw conclusions. After the publication of the two professors, AFCN again invited them to discuss them. I think we're doing what we need to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u25	Minister, the problem is that the two professors in question are an academic authority. The AFCN has its expertise. But this is an academic authority that comes with scientific advice. In an area such as nuclear power, I think the right approach would be for another academic authority to contradict the former. We would then perhaps be more reassured – but perhaps not. If, in a panel of five experts, one of these experts expresses significant reservations, I find that this remains worrying in an area as sharp as this one. That is the key to the debate. Still, there are two teachers who say: "No, we disagree. There is still a risk that the reactor will open at some point."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u26	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u27	Yes, but then these errors must be demonstrated by another scientific authority. I think it would be healthier. This is a personal opinion, minister, but I think it will be shared by many citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u28	Mr Minister, I will not react to the substance, because we will debate it at a later stage. I shall turn to the question of the absence of a scientific debate, starting with the end of your answer. You explain that the AFCN has re-invited the teachers to continue the dialogue – and that's very good. However, I would like to tell you - and I know that deep down you are aware of this - that this initiative is at the opposite end of the first attitude of the AFCN. The meeting took place. Then the professors took the time to digest the information transmitted by the Agency. Then they rested questions. Moreover, we have his answer, since it was made public: "Fine. Thank you for your interest on the RPV issue and for your reflection, but we will not follow on your continuing questions '. In other words, the PSAN will no longer answer any further questions. But today – and I think it's because you intervened – she's reviewing her position. I find this shift very healthy. We are not in a political dialogue – which is part of our job: you answer me, and I reply – but scientific. I could not accept the decision of the AFCN to close the debate. From now on, he has taken over – and that's so much better! It will also take place in part in the nuclear safety sub-committee, since both will explain their substance next Tuesday. Then you tell us that the Agency has always shown a proactive attitude of dissemination of the studies it has conducted to enable scientists to read them. I can't follow you. Of course, studies have been published, but not all of them. It is true that they were proactive in 2013. However, in 2015, after the plant was closed and reopened – and we regularly intervened in Parliament to tell you – the publication took place a posteriori. This prevented the external scientific dialogue from contributing to the debate on the first published results. In 2013, an external counter-expertise was conducted. You will recall that Ilse Tweer, an Austrian academic, intervened at the time and forced AFCN to justify certain aspects of the procedure. However, in 2015, this and other experts were only able to intervene after the event. As soon as the AFCN had decided to close the discussion, the studies were published. So it was too late to talk. That is also why we are facing such a challenge today. On the one hand, I need to correct some of the things you said. On the other hand, I can only regret the attitude of the AFCN. On the one hand, the attitude changes and, on the other, it is a real problem that it has only published a posteriori and not a priori. As far as the substance is concerned, we will return to it in the subcommittee next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 20405 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u30	Minister, the number 1 reactor at the Tihange nuclear power plant was manually shut down on Tuesday 12 September afternoon in order, the press release said, "to carry out a maintenance operation". It's all right, except it's actually an unscheduled shutdown. Moreover, this stop was initially to last only until the next day, and then it was extended until Thursday, before being extended again until the beginning of the following week. That was the state of affairs when I tabled the question, but since then we have learned that it would be until November 30th. Of course, AFCN said it was incorporating a maintenance plan that was planned for later. However, when you look at the dates, you can see that the time required for pure repair is much longer, hence my questions. Minister, what exactly is the situation? What happened again in Tihange 1? Are we in or outside the nuclear zone? You say very often that this is happening outside this area, implying that we should not worry about it. I have the impression that the incident here is in the nuclear zone. You'll answer me. Has the AFCN intervened? When? For what purposes? Why has the recovery date been changed three times in three days? It's still a matter of concern to me. At some point, we can take a little longer. What was put in place to prevent this incident from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u31	Mr Minister, many things have already been said by my colleague. We always find ourselves here in a logic that generates anxiety. We're told the reactors are old. People say they're too old, and in the press, we read that they're breaking down regularly. This increases the sense of insecurity among the population, compared to the entire nuclear sector. Tihange 1 is not the newest either. I am not going to repeat the sequence described by my colleague. Minister, can you explain the causes of this unscheduled judgment and tell us whether Engie's safety conditions have been met?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u32	Colleagues, the Tihange 1 reactor was shut down on 12 September for a maintenance operation involving a primary pump engine. The operator had observed a rise in temperature to compensate and an increase in the vibrations of the pump. The stop was therefore not planned. The monitoring measures enabled the problem to be detected and repairs to be anticipated before the breakdown occurred. To complete this maintenance operation, the reactor had to be shut down. The intervention highlighted the need to dismantle the engine and replace it during the repair period. The following day, in consultation with AFCN, Bel V conducted a reactive check to ensure compliance with the regulatory requirements set out in the technical specifications. This check confirmed that the operator handled the event in accordance with the requirements of the technical specifications and the safety conditions. The operator then decided to advance the scheduled shutdown of the unit and the major maintenance work originally planned for November in order to combine them with the pump repair. The reactor will not be restarted until all the work planned for this shutdown has been completed. The security authority shall not rule on the date of re-launch.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u33	Minister, you're saying it's a pump from the primary system at the reactor level. Unless I'm mistaken, there's always a spare pump in this kind of situation. I am surprised that it was not mobilised and that it was not used directly for recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u34	It's a decision of Electrabel. There is indeed a backup at the pump level but, since the energy supply was sufficient, Electrabel decided to shut down.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u35	It's a first element. That surprises me. This is the oldest reactor at the Liege site. This multiplies technical problems. It is known that this unit would normally have been closed by 1 October 2015. Since its extension, Unit 1 has rotated less than a day out of two. This will not escape anyone from the fact that the interview was originally scheduled to last seven weeks and that the new schedule provides for an 11-week shutdown. This means that the work related to the specific incident is at least four additional weeks. It's a bonus stop. The total availability of Tihange 1 since the extension is 44%. Let us not forget that there is an investment of 600 million euros. This raises a strong question, even though, despite the incident, things are fortunately handled. Good! However, there are still many unanswered questions, including the lack of a replacement pump.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u36	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Dallemagne's 20430 and 20431 are considered withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament 20444 by Mr Vermeulen is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u37	Mr President, Minister, I follow on from the debate we held last week on a very specific point. Besides, I was still waiting for additional information from your collaborator, but I didn't get anything. In your answer to my oral question no.20171, you mentioned that for Belgium, no anomalies affecting the safety of a component had so far been reported to AFCN. My supplementary question is whether new anomalies or irregularities related to a component of one of our seven non-safety-impaired plants have been discovered or reported to AFCN. Since our last exchange, have you received any other information related to components delivered in Belgium? May I ask you to use this question to update the answer to my 20171 question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u38	Mr President, Mr Nollet, for Belgium, no anomalies affecting the safety of a component have so far been reported to AFCN. But as I have already indicated, the investigation will continue until the end of the year. If there is no impact on safety, there is also no reason to report the result immediately to the AFCN. Therefore, until the analysis process is complete, it will not be possible to provide relevant numerical answers on the scope of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u39	Minister, I take note of your answer. I'm waiting for the supplements, requested last week, that your collaborator will send me. I assume that even if this does not have an impact on safety, you will be informed later in the process. At that point, I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr Vanden Burre, No 20469 Mr Van Hees, No. 20450 Mr De Vriendt, No 20480 No Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre's 20468 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u41	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, according to a press article, arms trafficking in Belgium is reported to have declined in 2016. Indeed, the Federal Police Press Service reports that 217 cases of arms trafficking were registered in 2016, compared with 297 in 2015. This indication is in fact somewhat blurred because, according to the article by La Dernière Heure published on September 13, "there is no longer a precise view of the number of weapons seized specifically in trafficking records. Weapons are also seized in cases of great banditry/drug (...) There are often weapons in related files and therefore there is no standard record of arms trafficking." Minister, do you confirm the figures in the press? If not, can you send us the exact number of cases related to arms trafficking in Belgium? What is the trend in 2017? What lessons do you learn from this evolution? What means do you intend to give the police to combat this phenomenon further? What are the priority measures to combat illegal arms trafficking under the National Security Plan (PNS) 2016-2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are indeed dossier figures, namely the specific minutes relating to trafficking in firearms from official police crime statistics. These data should be considered as trends because firearms seizures can also occur in related crime files related to the fight against big crime, drugs, without being identified in the above figures. The difference in magnitude between 2015 (297 cases of arms trafficking) and 2016 (217 cases of arms trafficking) can be explained by the resulting number of minutes issued in 2015 following a significant record of firearms trafficking throughout the country. In addition, this development must be contextualized. Indeed, the priority given to the phenomenon of terrorism following the attacks must be taken into account. It is still too early to report figures for 2017. However, it should be noted that the current collaboration with Europol through the exchange of information helps to strengthen research and investigations into trafficking in firearms. The first lesson I would like to emphasize is that the fight against arms trafficking is a shared responsibility and an integral and integrated approach. Several actors play a role in preventing, suppressing and monitoring this phenomenon. This issue was therefore included in the Framework Note "Integral Security 2016-2017". The federal, the judiciary, but also the federated entities – particularly the Regions, including the Brussels-Capital Region – have planned measures to be taken. It is in this context that the contribution of the federal and local police should be examined. Since NCSI has been taken into account, the phenomenon of arms trafficking has also been identified as a priority in the PNS 2016-2019. As a result, 12 objectives have been set to strengthen the fight against arms trafficking. They include, inter alia, actions aimed at improving access to specific expertise and a better perception of the phenomenon. The finding had therefore already been made. Improving the perception of this issue is an objective of the NCSI and the NSP. Secondly, the optimisation of international exchange and the processing of information will lead to more effective research and continuation. Harmonisation of the rules with a view to improving prophylaxis and eliminating anomalies in the specific legislation of each Member State of the European Union. There is also a need to improve the registration and traceability of firearms. In order to achieve these objectives, a program manager has been designated within the federal police force, particularly at the central level - in this case, the DSJ. A team of five people, including the programme manager, is working on the objectives to be achieved for this phenomenon. It is obvious that research is being done in the field. I am thinking, for example, of the deconcentrated entities of the federal police force, particularly the PJFs, as well as of the local police services. It is impossible for me to say how many people spend time there. We can only tackle arms trafficking together. But I confirm that this is a priority of the plan because it is linked to other phenomena of great crime, terrorism, drug trafficking, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u43	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive answer that I have to take the time to analyze. On the figures, I note your difficulty in having objective indicators. However, since the parameters have not changed, there is still a decrease according to police statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u44	Deputy Prime Minister, there is a great deal of concern within the railway police. As we can see, the railway police department, which is responsible for ensuring safety in metro and train stations – we know how important this is – is faced with many departures because of the difficult working conditions and a lack of candidates despite the open places. Indeed, according to Stéphane Deldicque, Permanent Secretary of the CSC Police: "The railway police (SPC) is understaffed and the lack of staff considerably complicates working conditions. In Brussels, the actual number of staff is around 100, while the framework provides for 300 to 330 police officers (...) Among those who remain, there is a high rate of absenteeism and a high number of incapacity for work (...) There are many cases of fatigue, burn-out and a significant increase in people in need of individual support. Cases of suicide or attempted suicide have also recently been documented." The unions stress, however, that the situation is not new and that it reflects the structural lack of human and material resources in the federal police. However, discussions have been initiated with occupational medicine as well as federal and local police officials, among others, to study how to encourage absent police officers to return to work. On the basis of this information, I would like to know your views on this serious concern within the Railway Police Service. What is your position on this situation? Do you share the CSC Police's analysis of the causes that could explain this situation? What are your concrete measures to fill the framework and solve this problem? What are the psychological support measures for railway police personnel? How many people are in charge of this accompaniment? What are their qualifications? What measures are being taken to prevent certain acts of despair?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u45	Mr Kir, I know that there is a great deal of concern within the SSC about his possible disappearance. I don't know where that came from. I take the opportunity to deny this rumor. We will maintain the SSC as a specialized service within the federal police and there will be no decrease in the framework. Very clearly, there is no plan to eliminate the SSC, it would be a serious mistake in the current circumstances! As far as your specific questions are concerned, the Brussels Railway Police has a staff of 283 people. Currently, there are 245 jobs occupied. Of these 245 jobs, 48 have been absent for more than 10 days (diseases, maternity leave, career interruptions, accidents at work, suspensions, personal reasons, etc.).). The shortage of railway police, as well as other federal police branches, is an ongoing concern and requires the identification of priorities. I have had discussions with the Federal Police Directorate to find solutions to the deficit of some entities. Resources have been made available to strengthen the federal police force. In this context, priority deficit entities have been identified. Railway police are among them. In this context, priority choices for the railway police will always be to ensure the safety of staff and interventions. With regard to absenteeism, I have found that the rate is very high for the federal police (between 7 and 8 per cent, and currently 8 rather than 7). I think that is also the case for the local police. I have therefore asked the Federal Police to establish a policy to prevent and combat absenteeism, in collaboration with the trade unions. It is obvious that the railway police will be part of it. On the other hand, it is necessary to correct recent statements about the suicide and attempted suicide of two railway police personnel. Indeed, these acts had no connection with the professional field. This supposed link to the professional context has moved and has been poorly felt among railway police personnel. The reasons were personal. I do not want to deny that the workload is enormous and that there are burn outs, but this suicide and attempted suicide are not related to it. The railway police are an integral part of the federal police and, like all other branches of the federal police, benefit from the internal support structures, be it the Stresteam, the occupational medicine and the mechanism of people of trust. It should be noted that each responsible officer must actively listen to staff members; he or she must also identify and report to his or her authority the worrying signs and elements of despair. In addition, the first stage of this support at the workplace also begins with working meetings with the senior inspectors and commissioners. Finally, it should be noted that the inspector framework is given priority in the mobility cycles according to the budget and the places available within the railway police. In the debate about the long absences within the police and the key tasks to be carried out in the context of well-being at work, the initial idea was to drop the medical service and direct the police to external doctors, while keeping the free. Having noted this high rate of absenteeism, I have reviewed my position and intend to retain the medical service within the federal police, but by entrusting him with the additional task and objective of reducing this rate of absenteeism. I never say they're enjoying it. The workload is that of their work. I think there are ways to help people against burn out and other phenomena, the results of this workload.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u46	Minister, my next question concerns controls at international stations. An investment has arrived. I regret the delay; I will come to it. At the time you install additional material means to better control at the stations, it makes sense to see that the numbers are not complete. It's a real concern. Thirty percent of the staff are not in place. In view of the figures, I see that 197 are active out of 283. I don't know the days of absence of less than ten days. So we have to be almost two thirds of people. I encourage you to take this case with you and ensure that the framework is completed as soon as possible. These are places that need to be secured as a matter of priority if there is to be real security control. On the other hand, the issue of prevention and well-being at work is essential. I asked you last week. You told me about the plan you're implementing. In this case, this is another school case where there are worrying absences. We'll give you time to implement the plan we've been talking about. I'll come back later to ask you about the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u47	Mr President, Minister, the press reported on the monitoring of nearly 17,000 passengers wishing to take an international train from the installation of metal detectors and luggage scanners at the country's three international stations (Brussels-Midi, Antwerp-Central and Liège-Guillemins) in mid-July. Some 22,000 bags were also checked. In the context of a terrorist threat to Europe, and especially following the attacks of 22 March 2016, the federal government decided on a package of security measures. For rail transport, in addition to these new safety features, the government wants to set up a PNR (Passenger Name Record). I quote: "We are in talks with the international train industry to set up a check on the passenger list to verify that no person reported in the police databases is included in the list(...). The aim is not to disrupt the ticket sales system. Travellers will always be able to buy a ticket at the last minute." Minister, what is the first assessment of these security measures? What conclusions do you draw in terms of their effectiveness? Have any problems been identified? How has the budget allocated to finance these devices been allocated, as well as the addition, updating, maintenance and recruitment of new agents contributing to the strengthening of station security? Is there a risk of a decline in passenger traffic following the installation of the Passenger Name Record? In mid-July, you said you were hoping for an agreement with the European countries and the companies concerned (Thalys and Eurotunnel) by the end of the year. What is the status of this negotiation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u48	Mr Kir, the record of this security system is positive. Securail and the SPC of the Federal Police work well together in this context. I'll update the numbers you have, which are a few weeks old. So far, they have already checked 28,000 passengers and 36,000 pieces of luggage via portals and X-rays. There have been only 150 hits for dangerous metal objects, such as knives, scissors, etc. However, safety measures are multiple and are not limited to this safety device. It seems pertinent to me to recall the overall context and the daily efforts made by the railway police in the context of securing the Belgian rail network and the Brussels metro. In addition, as a result of the terrorist threat, security efforts were reinforced by the support of military personnel and the regular engagement of the Brussels Task Force. With regard to security, field operational arrangements are subject to ongoing evaluation and the guidelines are regularly adapted in the light of threat assessment, crisis centre guidelines, topicality, including events in the vicinity of certain stations, and the ad hoc needs expressed by partners on the basis of their findings on the ground. Passenger control at railway stations is part of the regular work of the railway police. An intense collaboration has also been developed with Securail. In this context, the Federal Police has not received any additional resources for this mission, but it is active in the mechanism of solidarity and coordination via the Directorate of Operations of the Administrative Police (DAO), together with the present staff of the railway police. The answer to your question about station security officers, provided by Securail, fell within the competence of Mr. Bellot. With regard to the implementation of the PNR for high-speed trains, following an agreement, an international task force bringing together experts from Belgium, France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom was established in March 2017. This agreement implies that the countries concerned take a common approach to the collection of passenger data in the high-speed train sector. In concrete terms, an impact assessment is currently being carried out in collaboration with Thalys, Eurostar and Eurotunnel. The national railway companies - SNCB for Belgium, NS (Nederlandse Spoorwegen) for the Netherlands and SNCF for France - were also involved. On the basis of this work, the Task Force will develop the additional steps to make this security measure enforceable and effective. The aim will be to identify the data to be collected according to the technical means and to determine the frequencies of the data to be collected. The aim is therefore to standardize the modalities inherent in each participating country. As the analysis will take place in advance, it will not affect passengers. I am thinking, for example, of their free movement at railway stations or of the waiting time needed to buy tickets - some fear, wrongly, that they will have to take care of it the day before. No, we are not going to interfere with the commercial model of railway companies. In short, we are conducting studies with all the parties involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic728x.u49	Minister, thank you for your full answer.
