ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I will indeed ask a whole series of questions today. The good news, however, is that they are all very short. Anyone can find the full question in the database. In order for it to move forward, I shall confine myself here to the actual questions. My first question is about child care. I've asked questions about that before. Why was the project not prevented in this respect for the pilot projects on home care? However, it has submitted an application for this, particularly in the context of tackling the under-staffing of the pediatric beds. A general problem with the transition to home care, but certainly in the pediatrics, is the care network. If the intra-mural reception network is to be phased out, there must be an extra-mural reception network. That is why I was wondering to what extent it falls within your competence to finance a new child care system. Are you prepared to sit down with people who have strong ideas about this to consider whether, in some way, possibly outside the pilot projects, a budget can be made available for child care projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u2	Mr President, Ms Van Camp, the call to candidates for the development of pilot projects was launched in May 2016 and closed on 16 September 2016. The applications submitted are currently being assessed. There were a lot of them, so it's hard to choose. I was told there were over 400 files. There were no filed files relating to child care. As you know, we leave the initiative on home hospitalisation projects to the people on the ground. This allows for reform through initiatives supported 100% on the ground. This does not mean that in future these projects could not be extended to other niches, such as specialised child care in the home environment. In cancer patients, certain treatments can now be done safely and qualityfully at home. I believe that this is also the future, especially for children, to not be isolated in a hospital as far as possible, to be closer to the family, to see boyfriends and to have their pet and mommy and daddy with them. I am convinced that the process of being hospitalized in children would be much better if we could keep hospitalization very short. It's also very incriminating for the family. And above all, a child likes to stay in his familiar environment. I support it and I will be very attentive to it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer, which I find very hopeful. From our group, I would certainly like to give you an explicit example of your efforts to be admired in the transition from inpatient care to home care.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u4	President: Muriel Gerkens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u5	Madam President, I can put my questions together. I have asked questions about this in the past. You referred in your replies to surveys of insurance institutions on the use of bariatrie, with results that would be published in the autumn. On the other hand, you also referred to the Technical Medical Council, which should express its opinion on how the nomenclature on bariatric surgery can evolve. In another reply, you also referred to two reports, in particular from the Scientific Department of the Observatory for Chronic Diseases. You pointed out that they were taking initiatives for a national register of obesity surgery. In conclusion, I always have the same question in this dossier. Is there a refund of dietician and psychologist for overweight and obesity in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u6	Mrs Van Camp, the two reports have indeed been requested and drawn up, but have not yet been validated or approved by the competent bodies for various reasons. The Observatory has not dealt with the scientific department's report because of an overcrowded agenda. It was on the agenda, but this point was not touched at the last meeting. That will certainly be on the agenda for the next sitting. The Inter-Mutualist Agency also completed the study and is waiting for an opportunity to submit the report to the Insurance Committee. That will also be for one of the next meetings of the Insurance Committee. As you know, throughout the debate on the budget, the Insurance Committee and other meetings have lasted a very long time and have gone tumultuously. I hope that serenity will return so that other subjects which are also important for patients can be addressed and made public in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u7	Thanks for the answer. I will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u8	Madam Minister, this is another question to which I have already referred. I was at the kick-off of the reform of Royal Decree No. 78, which we discussed at the last committee meeting. Your flower model refers specifically to the denturist. Your head of the cabinet also stated that this is a real thought trail, which is being investigated. However, you have stated earlier that there was no support for it and that studies have also clearly shown that it does not promote quality. Madam Secretary, what is your position on the denturist? Has that changed in the meantime? If you take initiatives in this area, I call on you to involve the dental associations in these initiatives. At present, we find that, regardless of the discussion of whether or not to recognise the denturists, some are working illegally. What are you doing against the denturists, who are often left untouched? How will you protect patients from treatment by a denturist? I have another question, more specifically about the bachelor's degree in oral care. There was uncertainty in the field about the name of assistant. Is the bullet through the church yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u9	Mrs Van Camp, the President asked a question about this yesterday. It is the areas of care that are visually present in the petals and the patients, of course, but not the individual professions, because that would have been unclear. In the petals of the care domains are exactly the respective titles. In dentistry these are, of course, the dentist, the dental hygienist or dental care assistant and the denturist. In any case, the dental hygienist and denturist will work within a framework of mission delegation and supervision by dentists, as is currently the case for other paramedical professionals and doctors. It is clear that there is no regulatory framework for these professions, nor that such a framework is under development and more importantly, that the opportunity test for the introduction of these professional qualifications has yet to be carried out. Research is therefore necessary. This is also what my head of the cabinet has said: we are prepared to investigate all this. That does not mean that those titles are already being added. The bachelor in oral care has not yet been added to the profession of dentists. The programme was started in the Arteveldeschool Gent and the University Centre Leuven-Limburg. The advisory procedure in the Public Health Office is under way. It means that a working group of the Federal Council for Paramedical Professions, the same council that also gave the opinion on the psychomotricians, and the Council of Dentistry have to take a decision on this. So they're involved. Their advice is expected by June 2017. With regard to your first question on denturists, I must also have the opinion of the Federal Council for Paramedical Professions. That's what was due in March. I realize we're already 15 March, but I don't have it yet. The Dental Council gave its opinion on the denturists on 21 November 2016. That has already been published on the website of the FPS Public Health. The representative dental associations also have representatives in the Council of Dentistry. They are very involved in these advisory procedures. The actions which the denturists claim, in addition to the legitimate actions of the dental technician as described by the FPS Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy, are actually part of the domain of dentistry, which at the moment actually constitutes an illegal practice of dentistry. This is dealt with in Article 4 of the WUG. In the reform of the WUG and the old Royal Decree No. 78 I would like to comment on the illegal exercise in a generic way. Unlawful exercise is the unauthorized exercise of health care without an appropriate visa. The criminal offence "unlawful exercise' in the Law of 10 May 2015 shall be replaced by a genericly defined crime applicable regardless of which health profession is unlawfully pursued. The new provision will apply without prejudice to the professional and competence profiles in force for each profession. I do not have figures on the number of denturists currently carrying out these illegal acts. At present, the medical committees do not give proactive attention to the illegal exercise of dentistry. One only acts in case of complaints or incidents. That's what we want to reverse. We want to play a proactive role. That's what I said yesterday. It is my intention to treat dental hygienists or dental care assistants as a priority within the paramedical professions. To this end, Articles 23 and 46 of the WUG and the Royal Decree of 2 July 2009 establishing a list of paramedical professions should be adapted. What the profession of such assistants will be called, which exact name it will be given, depends on the advice that has yet to be received. We're looking at that with open eyes. At the same time, we want to be sure that they do not carry out tasks for which they are not trained or which are beyond their control and which are actually in the field of dentists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u10	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It's my pleasure to establish that you're not going to be ice cream overnight. I am also reassured that everyone involved, especially the dentists, will be heard extensively. We are following the issue further closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u11	Madam Secretary, last time, you indicated that the CTG was still looking at Natulan's refund file. I was just wondering if a decision has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u12	No, normally the CTG could have already completed that file, but they were also consulted to examine all possible savings. Unfortunately, therefore, they have been delayed in the planned activities. Natulan is one of the medicines included.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u13	To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u14	Madam Secretary, the people of Zucsuguide have come to see us. I find it interesting that people can find diabetes-friendly restaurants. They take into account, for example, a limited time between the injections and the delivery of the meal, or put bread on the table from the start. For diabetics, these seemingly ignorant things make a world of difference. It makes sure those people can just go to the restaurant. The initiators of the initiative would find it very supportive if that guide were recognized by the government so that it could be further developed. My question is whether there is the possibility and the willingness to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u15	I think it's a very nice initiative. In fact, people with diabetes can also go to restaurants without having a negative effect on their health. This guide also focuses on training for restaurant staff, practical facilities and more choice, but also on information exchange on sugars and especially on hidden sugars in the meals offered. We also received that doctor in the Cabinet to know exactly what it was about. We thought it was a very nice initiative, but neither the services of the Public Health Office nor myself have the habit of giving official recognition to private initiatives. We know that at the moment a lot of people are working on healthy cooking, or cooking for stomach and bowel sufferers, for people with gluten intolerance and so on. The private actors themselves are responsible for the exchange of information and the possible calculation of sugar content passed on to interested parties. Moreover, all nutrition and health claims must be in line with the permitted nutritional claims, as laid down in the relevant European regulation. It is also important to test such initiatives in the Länder, which also have a sensitising role in terms of balanced nutrition, and in the associations active in the field of diabetes in Belgium. In addition, it may be interesting to make this initiative known through the Catering Federations, so that they can also raise awareness among their members about the problems that customers with diabetes may encounter at restaurants. I think they are all commendable initiatives, but for me it is a difficult matter. If I put myself under one initiative, I have to do the same for the other. It's not my job to advertise someone else's books. I have done small activities, such as an introduction to someone who wrote a book about healthy cooking for children and how to avoid obesity. I keep trying to find reason in that. In that case, it was about a general presentation, but I can't really promote books for individual people. I don't make it a secret that I think this is a very nice initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u16	I think this in itself is a nice lighter. I'll pass it on in a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u17	Madam President, Madam Minister, there is also a lack of clarity on this issue. At a previous committee meeting, the proposals on the table were discussed. The last thing I found is your statement that there would be an effective evaluation of the funding of contraception. Has that evaluation taken place yet? Has she also been delayed because of the budget discussions? What are the findings? Has there also been an increase in the number of unwanted pregnancies? Are the causes being investigated? That is why we want to take action. I haven't found any figures on that theme myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u18	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the next item is fresh from the press. The working group on the financing of contraception for young people met on 11 March 2016 to examine the data on the evolution of the use of different contraceptives over a period of two full years after the entry into force of the Royal Decree establishing a specific concession in the cost of contraception for women under 21 years of age. The conclusions of the Working Group were submitted to the Insurance Committee for Medical Care on 2 May 2016. The Working Group has made the following findings. There is a systematic reduction in the number of abortions and childbirths in young women less than 21 years of age. There is a small, limited reduction in expenditure on contraception for the group of young women less than 21 years of age. There is a tendency to use long-acting contraceptives, such as spirals and implants, instead of short-acting contraceptives, usually the pill. There has been a net increase in the use of spirals, which have been repaid since the reform of the allowance for young people. Before that, they had to pay for it themselves, which is expensive. The price for a spiral is about 125 euros, and was not refunded. We therefore notice an increase in the use of the spiral as a result of the refund. There is also a decrease in the use of third generation pills, as well as a stable use of the first and second generation pills. Those third-generation pills were under fire because they were too heavy and would have too many side effects. Overall, the evaluation of the reform of the contraception concession for young people is positive, especially in terms of the impact of the reform on the use of spirals, which are safe contraceptives. Two concrete proposals for amendments were also made. Firstly, the entry of a speciality Depo-Provera on the list of contraception for young people. That's the shot pill. Secondly, an extension of the allowance in the case of outpatient delivery via the hospital pharmacist for long-term contraception. That is, for placement during the consultation at the hospital. Now young people have to buy the shot pill themselves, then they have to go back to the gynecologist. If the needle pill could be purchased and refunded in the hospital itself, this could happen in one move. I asked for both proposals to be deepened and evaluated, including in view of the budgetary impact. For the specific question on the number of unwanted pregnancies, I refer to the first observation, in particular a systematic reduction in the number of abortions and childbirths in women less than 21 years of age. In addition, it was also found that expenditure on the abortion pill, the morning-after pill, decreased in 2015. That data only applies to the entire population. We do not know how many of them were taken by young people. This is an important indication that there is more preventive consideration of contraception, while the morning-after pill is always taken after the facts. These elements all seem to indicate a decrease in the number of unwanted pregnancies, but there is no specific study that could show a causal relationship. We see that there is a positive impact, but what exactly is the impact of more prevention or more communication? I think one thing goes with the other. If there is a better refund, there is more talk about it, there are more possibilities, there is more direct access. That is a good thing. This needs to be further investigated for the needle pill, which may have side effects. I do not think that we should go there overnight because there is already a great deal of choice between short or long term contraceptives that are all safe, which is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u19	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It is always difficult to tell which campaigns or adjustments of measures have what effects. The most important thing is to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies and abortions, to increase protection with regard to the use of contraceptives and to reduce the use of the morning-after pill. That looks really good.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u20	Madam Minister, we have recently had the presentation in committee of the Planning Committee for Doctors and dentists. The question is whether this exercise is actually in the hands of the other professions, such as the nurses. You answered one question, for example, that there are about 190 000 nurses. However, this is simply counted on the basis of the visa. We know, that was also the problem with the register of doctors and dentists, that the non-active ones were included. There, too, there is a real need for a dynamic land register. My question is simply when can we expect that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u21	The Planning Committee charts the current care offer for doctors and dentists. A similar exercise was already carried out in the past for the nurses' profession, from 2004 to 2009. The results of this first data link can be found on the website of the FPS under the link Health Consultation Bodies Belgium.. Nurses in the labour market 2004-2009. The 2016-2018 multiannual plan of the Planning Committee on Medical Supply also provides for a data link for the midwife and physiotherapists in 2017. It is only after the data link that the analysis can begin. In addition, an update of the data for the doctors in 2018 will also be provided. At the same time, a periodic data link is being developed to bring together doctors, dentists, nurses, midwifes, physiotherapists and logopedists for the purpose of reducing this procedure. So that is something that is now being done, that periodic data link. Annual statistics for 2015 refer to 181 121 nurses with a visa. In order to gain an insight into the extent to which they are active, there must be an effective data link. We know that the data link for the doctors has actually produced a different picture. The planning priorities were set for 2016-2018, but the Planning Committee did not include the nurses. As far as planning is concerned, priority is given to doctors, dentists and then midwifes and physiotherapists. You know that the Planning Committee has a very different way of calculating. She spent a lot of time on that. Many doctors and disciplines have been included. It's the same with the nurses. They themselves have also drawn up a priority list. We will certainly not know this before 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u22	That is a pity, but then we still have to be patient until 2018 for that exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u23	Madam President, Minister, I have already raised the issue of vampire disease, EPP, on several occasions. My question now is whether the application has already been submitted. As long as that is not the case, what other options are there? In response to a previous question, for example, you referred to the BSF. I have referred to patients who have spoken to me about this. The problem with the BSF is that it seems that income is taken into account, which means that people who have property, for example, are told to sell it. I do not understand that it plays a role in whether or not people have a home or a higher income. The treatment of EPP costs between 10 and 20,000 euros. Surely one cannot expect people, who have not asked to have EPP, to pay for that treatment themselves? As far as the CSF is concerned, should we not look at the need instead of the income?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u24	Erythropoietin protoporphyria is a metabolic hereditary disease characterised by the accumulation of protoporphyrin in the blood, erythrocytes in the tissue and also cutaneous manifestations of photosensitivity. It begins and becomes visible during childhood, characterized by cutaneous signs of acute painful photosensitivity with erythema and oedema. Patients also have an increased risk of gallstones with episodes of occlusion. They may also develop chronic liver disease that may lead to liver failure. Treatment is mainly based on preventive measures with regard to light exposure, reduction of protoporphyrin levels, reduction of erythropoiesis by transfusion or by administration of colestyramine, a galchelator, and prevention of liver disease that may lead to liver failure. Liver disease is the main risk of this disease. The severe cases of liver injury require liver transplantation. A stem cell transplant can sometimes also be indicated. It is therefore a chronic disease and the prognosis depends on the development of a liver disease. The sensitivity of light also affects the quality of the patients' lives. In your question you refer to a treatment available in the Netherlands. My services haven't been able to find out what treatment you're referring to. All the necessary treatments that have proven their scientific value and effectiveness are available and refunded in Belgium, including the colestyramine Questran that has been reimbursed in the event of hypercholesterolaemia, except for betacarotene that is prescribed orally as sun protection. Sensitized patients can indeed benefit from compensation under the Special Solidarity Fund for betacarotene. At present, there is no refund procedure in progress at the CTG. In other words, no initiative has been taken by any firm, because a procedure at the CTG can only run if there is an application. To have an intensive treatment with hospitalization carried out somewhere in Europe: via the mutualities, the document S2 can be requested. For example, they are considered as residents of that country and are therefore refunded. If the reimbursement in Belgium would be higher, they could ask and receive the difference from the sickness fund. If the application concerns a treatment not reimbursed in Belgium, the consultant may not deliver an S2. The S2 is not necessary for an outpatient treatment, but the patient will first have to pay for the treatment himself and only after returning to Belgium can claim reimbursement from his sickness fund. He will also receive a refund only for benefits in kind reimbursed in Belgium. Article 25s of the co-ordinated law on compulsory medical care insurance and benefits of 14 July 1994 on care provided abroad provides for the allowance of the Special Solidarity Fund for treatment not reimbursed in Belgium. If the patient meets the criteria laid down in this Article, he will have received the agreement of the College of Medical Directors, which will decide on these applications before he leaves, and may receive compensation for medical costs, travel and subsistence expenses, and, where appropriate, for the costs of the accompanying person, if this can be medically justified. The College of Medical Directors has a discretionary power to determine the amount of the fee within a limited budget, but it calculates the fee in an identical way for everyone for the same provision, regardless of income. So it doesn't depend on the income. It is calculated in the same way for everyone. However, a certain degree of streamlining is being sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u25	I was talking about the treatment with the implant, which I asked questions about earlier. It concerns Scenesse of the firm Clinuvel. I understand the application isn't working yet. That is, of course, the responsibility of the firm to do so. I will certainly encourage them to take steps. As far as your answer is concerned, that it is not dependent on income, I will certainly advise people to transfer the documents, because the answer to their application is in writing that it has been rejected because of their income. I'll be sure to pass this along.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u26	Madam Chair, Minister, I introduced this question a few months ago, early October 2016, really at the beginning of the campaign. We'll make sure we take a little stock. I'll adjust my questions. The influenza vaccination campaign officially began on October 10, 2016. Influenza, although commonplace in European countries, remains dangerous for part of the population. Indeed, some more fragile people are at risk of complications that may in some cases lead to death. In 2013, a survey revealed that 44 per cent of this vulnerable population had been vaccinated. In concrete terms, the vaccine, given as a single subcutaneous injection, works in two or three weeks. There is a debate on the choice to be made between quadrivalent and trivalent vaccines. Although this debate has not yet been resolved, Belgium has ordered a quadrivalent vaccine for three trivalent vaccines for this year. In order to promote a good understanding of what influenza is and what its effects are, and in order to raise awareness among vulnerable people, it is important to develop adequate communication throughout the country. However, it seems that the communication has remained quite discreet. I recall that I was talking about the beginning of the campaign. In addition, some experts claim that the number of vaccines is insufficient for the entire territory, despite an estimated order of 3 million doses. Minister, we can take stock. What means of communication are used to promote the vaccination campaign? Are vulnerable people particularly targeted by this communication? How can vaccine coverage be optimized across the country? What percentage of the vulnerable population is not covered? On what criteria was it decided to order a quadrivalent vaccine for three trivalent vaccines?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u27	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, today we have just announced that the flu is falling. Communication in the context of the vaccination campaign is primarily the responsibility of the Communities. On the other hand, every year, the Higher Council of Health, a scientific advisory body of the Federal Public Health Service, identifies groups at risk for influenza and makes recommendations for the vaccine. You can find this opinion on the website of the Supreme Council of Health. In 2013, 44 per cent of the population at risk over 15 years of age reported being vaccinated against influenza in the previous national health survey. This percentage is the lowest in the lower age groups: 11% for all persons aged 15 to 49 and 20% for the high-risk 15 to 49 age group. This percentage is steadily increasing in the older age groups, up to 68% among those aged 75 and over. The federal authorities themselves do not order vaccines but provide for reimbursement by INAMI of both trivalent and quadrivalent vaccines. Vaccines are purchased by pharmacists. In principle, the attending physician determines what type of vaccine the patient will receive (trivalent or quadrivalent). As far as it is concerned, it must nevertheless take into account the recommendation made by the Supreme Council of Health, which stresses the importance for public health of promoting influenza vaccine, regardless of the specific or potential benefits of the type of vaccine chosen. In all cases, the quadrivalent vaccine, which is registered for anyone over three years of age, seems the most suitable for pregnant women and children over three years of age and is at risk. In my opinion, this situation is temporary. In recent years, we have had trivalent and quadrivalent vaccines. But we are going to move towards a more effective vaccine, which is already developing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u28	Madam President, Minister, this is a partial question in the larger debate that is, of course, still raging today. Part of the compromise that we agreed upon when this government took office is to have it paid off to doctors in the French Community. The question is, of course, how big is that amount? Several figures have already been made on this subject. The Planning Committee has also done an exercise in which, as far as I am concerned rightly, the number of foreign students is taken into account. One cannot deny that there is an influx of this, although of course it will be a lot lower with an entrance exam. The question is whether the calculation as it is now being made is correct. One has to ask oneself whether all these foreign students will indeed go back to abroad afterwards. If they continue to work here, this must of course be taken into account in the quotas. In that case, of course, they are also part of filling the need for doctors, which exists today. I therefore wonder whether there are no other ways. You once said in an interview that there would be almost half a reduction in payments in Wallonia. In Flanders there would even be a shortage of 400 doctors. Wouldn't it be better if we somehow link up with proven work or activation? This way we can check if someone is going back abroad. We can ask them to give up the numbers if a practice is started abroad. In this way, we can include the figures for the future outcome. In that case, we shall come to a correct analysis. But now I have the feeling that, because of the way the figures are calculated, this is also, in some way, a waiver for the surplus that has been built up in the past. However, it is not sufficiently substantiated to simply assume that it is correct. Hence my question. What factors are being taken into account regarding students who remain here, and in what way do you want to take that into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u29	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, I have asked the Planning Committee to draw up a method of calculation for the calculation methodology for the number of doctors entitled to start an internship plan, also taking into account doctors who are not active in the RIZIV. A more than upholstered opinion will be delivered, but I await this opinion before deciding on the conditions or modalities for charging the accumulated surpluses or deficits. The more different parameters are taken into account, the more the figures are seen to vary. They also continue to vary, because each year another cohort can start and there is also one that leaves, whether partially or not. It is true that the trend remains the same. In the past too many doctors were trained in Wallonia. In addition, there is also the finding that in Flanders not enough doctors have been trained. Not that this was wanted, but the quota was then calculated in a very different way, with just enough doctors being allowed to start training. Afterwards, this number proved insufficient. I believe that we are quite rightly trying to work out even more precise methods of calculation, with even more variables, so that the number can be determined as precisely as possible on the basis of which the negative bid will take place. We must also take into account the fact that Mr Marcourt's filter, which was also included in the conditions, has been delayed for a very long time and was only approved last Wednesday. Meanwhile, there are still dots. There was an agreement of December 2014. Those transfers will also have to be taken into account. The figures are therefore still in constant evolution. I am counting on the Planning Committee to indicate who is active and when. Is one active after basic training or after specialization? In fact, there is a whole vat-et-vient, not only from people from abroad to here, but also from our people abroad. It changes every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u30	Madam Secretary, I understand that you are cautious in your reply. I welcome that in itself, because I want the government to get out of it. Sometimes it is better to wait for advice. It is a good thing that certain parameters, such as foreign doctors and their activation or work, are taken into account. However, as you know from the previous discussions, the Planning Committee is not a god to me. After looking at everything more clearly, I am still asking myself big questions about the parameters they had chosen in a previous exercise. So I hope in any case that their new exercise is better and that a more correct choice was made in the parameters used. To be continued. I hope that someday I will not have to say these words again on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u31	Minister, this is a debate that is going through intensely depending on the region in which we are located. So I think it's important to take stock with you. Several countries are concerned about cancers detected among people playing on synthetic fields, composed of filling balls. Their composition would be carcinogenic. Although the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) study revealed its findings last February, the figures are worrying. Indeed, hundreds of people with cancer see a causal link between their cancer and their practice of sport on artificial lawns - 130 in Wallonia. Although the light is not yet clear, it is important to apply the precautionary principle. Indeed, minister, there is no need to recall that people of any age use these lands. Minister, my questions about this are as follows. What is the extent of the problem in Belgium? Should the danger of these lands be confirmed, would it be possible to estimate the number of people affected? Are you considering taking preventive measures pending the ECHA report? Finally, if the study confirms the toxicity of these lands, what lessons can be learned? My question was tabled a little while ago. According to the press, a first report would confirm the safety of these lawns or, at least, the absence of a causal link between them and certain cancers. Thank you, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u32	Jadin, following a study published in the United States that indicated a risk of cancer in children, the media has widely reported concern about the use of rubber pellets from recycled tires on sports grounds, particularly if PAHs (polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons) contained in these recycled tires pose a health risk. PAH substances are regulated in the European REACH Regulation under Annex 17 with two different concentration thresholds, for consumer articles on the one hand, and for mixtures on the other. Rubber granules fall under "mixtures". A study conducted in the Netherlands by the Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu (RIVM) was published on 20 December 2016. The conclusion of this study does not indicate a significant risk for the use of sports grounds containing these granules. The study is based on a study of existing scientific literature and tests of 600 samples taken from 100 fields. The results of the tests carried out by the Netherlands therefore indicate concentrations well below the mandatory standard for mixtures. The results of tests carried out by Belgium of samples taken from land installers are comparable for PAHs. Our analyses and those of the Netherlands do not identify any health risks. It does not seem urgent to me, therefore, to take a national action. Of course, my services will follow closely the results of additional scientific studies under way, including in the Netherlands. There are still harmonised standards at European level. Although no risk has been formally identified by the RIVM for land use, it is recommended that the regulation of rubber pellets be aligned with the maximum allowable thresholds for articles rather than based on the thresholds for mixtures. It should be noted that some samples of rubber pellets tested in the Netherlands already meet the standard for articles. The findings of the ECHA European study were published on 28 February and are in line with those of the Netherlands. They are based on extensive sampling in several Member States. A possible initiative by the European Commission in the context of Annex 17 to REACH could result, and in particular the alignment of the regulation of rubber pellets with the maximum permitted thresholds for articles. They have been in force since December 2015 and are significantly more binding. In addition, the competent department within the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment will also closely monitor the records of hazardous substances potentially present in recycled articles, in particular for consumer items. The SPF will also monitor the awareness-raising of the authorities concerned with this issue. I think this story isn't over. In any case, there is no immediate danger, but it is obviously in order to avoid a possible risk that the threshold should be as low as possible in production and recycling.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u33	Minister, thank you for this very detailed answer. The subject is important and makes the public and the media very aware. By carrying out both the necessary studies, by also referring to existing studies and by strengthening certain regulations or harmonising them at European level, we are moving in the right direction. I'll pass on the information you gave me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u34	It's my healthy day, Madam President! Minister, AIDS remains one of the serious diseases of our century, where prejudices have a hard life; discrimination persists. A survey reveals that discrimination exists in the field of employment, but also in everyday life, in the search for housing, in health care, and in emotional or school life. Some have been rejected at work or in health care. Given the medical advances in this area, such discrimination is obviously intolerable. Indeed, advances in medical treatment allow you to share your life with an HIV-positive person without risking being affected. Even if the person remains HIV positive, the risk of transmission is, according to the analysis and the precepts transmitted by the medical profession, almost non-existent. My questions about this are both very simple and very important. Minister, what communication is being put in place in Belgium, and particularly in the professional community, to inform workers about HIV? Does a person who is a victim of discrimination have the opportunity to file a complaint? What are the most common cases of transmission? Are there penalties for medical personnel treating carriers of the virus differently from other patients? This issue dates back to November 2016 and was becoming more topical.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, even if the question is dated last November, it remains valid. Communication to professionals to inform them about the AIDS virus is primarily a matter of prevention policy or even education, which are areas of competence of the Communities and Regions. As to the possibilities for a victim of discrimination to lodge a complaint, I would first like to point out that article 5 of the Law on the Rights of the Patient states that "the patient has the right of his or her professional practitioner to receive quality services in accordance with his or her needs, in accordance with his or her human dignity and autonomy and without any distinction of any kind". If a patient considers that he or she has been discriminated against and that the right to quality of care as provided for in article 5 of the Law on the Rights of the Patient has therefore not been respected, he or she has the opportunity to file a complaint with the mediation service as provided for in the Law on the Rights of the Patient and in his or her Royal Orders. The mediator acts as an intermediary between the patient and the health professional practitioner in order to promote or facilitate communication between the health professional and to assist the health professional in finding a solution to the patient's request. The Ombudsman of the Law on the Rights of the Patient is also responsible for making recommendations, particularly to the management of the institution in which he or she works, so that non-compliances which may give rise to a complaint do not occur again. The patient could also file a complaint with the Provincial Council of the Order of Physicians competent under the Code of Medical Ethics, or even with a court, seeking damages for the damage suffered. In addition to such a warning from the practitioner's employer who treats carriers of the virus differently from other patients and/or a heavier penalty, such as dismissal, if the facts are serious, the practitioner in question could, if necessary, be given a disciplinary sentence through the Provincial Council of the Order of Physicians. A court could also order him to pay damages for the damage suffered by the patient as a result of discrimination. Finally, with regard to the most frequent cases of transmission, epidemiological surveillance of HIV infection and AIDS has existed since 1985 and is based on the registration of new HIV diagnoses and AIDS cases by the Scientific Institute of Public Health. The PSI's most recent report dates from November 2016 and covers 2015. You can find it on the Institute's website. Men who have sex with men are the risk group most affected by the epidemic. The diagnoses concerning them currently account for 50% of new infections registered for which the mode of contamination is known. Diagnosis of heterosexual sex infection accounts for 45% of new infections for which the mode of infection is known. There are 5 per cent left, made up of individuals who are not known how they were infected. In my opinion, it's still a lot. We addressed the recording when we talked about blood donations by homosexuals and men who have sex with other men.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u36	We have discussed it, indeed. I remember it a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u37	Mrs. Jadin, you had a question about the burn out, attached to another of Mrs. Willaert's. She told me that the minister had responded in the Social Affairs Committee last week. That's why she's not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u38	Madam Chair, I will help the committee by turning my question into a written question. That's better, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u39	Especially since my answer was very long.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u40	There are many things to say, indeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u41	The figures from 2010 to 2015 were well indicated in the tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u42	I will read your answer with pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u43	Questions No 15186 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and No 16866 by Mrs Evita Willaert are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u44	Madam President, Minister, I am asking this question following a broadcast of the Seventh Day, in which a Green Member claimed that there are waiting lists for home care. I know that home care has been organised at the level of the Länder since the sixth state reform. However, the fees are still under your jurisdiction. That is why I am asking you this question. I myself have never heard of waiting lists in home care on the premises. Have you heard of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u45	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, I am not watching Seventh Day. I'm usually on some kind of transmitter myself, so I don't know who it's about. Anyway, we have searched, but no data or signals have been found in that connection. However, we have been well informed. As far as I know, fortunately, there is no waiting time for home care. I do not know where the Green Member got her or his information. It might have been a lapsus, I don't know. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u46	The answer is short and good: we have not found any waiting lists either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u47	Mrs Van Camp, I give you the floor for your question on the lower cost of medicines. (No 15262)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u48	Madam President, I would like to turn this question into a written question. After all, I suspect that the answer is also very long and technical. You can give me that answer digitally so that we can move things forward here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u49	We have also added a number of tables, which show how the patient bill falls per year according to the measures already taken in the context of either the implementation of the pact with the pharmaceutical industry or various decisions taken during budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u50	As was said yesterday or the day before yesterday, the firm will send the replies to the secretariat of the commission who will communicate them to the members of the commission and to the authors if they are not part of the health commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u51	Madam Chair, Minister, in the August 2016 review of the Neutral Union of Independents (NIS), I had the opportunity to read an article in which the NIS felt that the N-VA's proposal to set up a contact point to denounce doctors who improperly issue certificates was a good idea. The NIS goes even further by stating that false patients, covered by a false certificate, should also be punished. Madam Minister, we have already talked about this in the Social Affairs Committee. I gave you examples at the time. I am an employer and have already had several people who, at times, have had certificates. In particular, there was a certificate that the road was not clear for snow. It was a medical certificate. I had another one for a footballer who, the same day, was running on a football field. Although the vast majority of doctors do not issue certificates for no reason, some of them, unfortunately, more easily issue medical certificates of convenience. For many employers, this practice is problematic. I do not know the N-VA's proposal, but I think in any case it has the merit of drawing attention to a real problem. I would therefore like to know your views on this idea and, above all, how, in practice, such a proposal could be implemented. I would add that, in the case of the doctor who had made a medical certificate that prevented the worker from coming to the site because the road was not well snowed, I had denounced the facts to the Order of Physicians. I do not think that road conditions are indeed a medical reason not to work. But I have never had a follow-up to my denunciation when, in this case, it is obvious that there is an offence. By bouncing on the N-VA proposal, I believe, Madam Minister, that there is room for action on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u52	If only all my fellow Members were so, that is good, support for initiatives. It is not the case that we have a legislative proposal on this, Madam Minister, but it is true that we saw this as a point of attention in the resolution we tabled. As my colleague has just said, there are many examples. One does not need to be an employer for it. As OCMW chair, I recently received in a file a note from a doctor who gave someone sick leave for a year with retroactive contribution. So this guy came up with a note for the whole last year. Of course, these things just don't work anymore. People always see the same names coming back, so it's really about rotten apples. It is not about the doctors' corps, but that makes it all the more harrowing, because it defiles an entire corps of course. Unfortunately, by city and municipality, there is a very fast movement where one has to go. I have asked you about this before. By the way, you immediately committed yourself to this. You said there's very little around today. There is the Order of Doctors, but it doesn't have that much in its hands and, in my opinion, doesn't make it a priority to really do that either. I have now raised a question because the medical committee, in a very extreme and poignant case of a doctor who, for many reasons, is no longer able to practice his profession and who really made a sport of writing massive false disease attestations, has once started a procedure. However, it was annulled by the Council of State. For the few times that one tries to contact a doctor, it seems that it is already not working. I fear that the figures for the number of doctors who have to bear the consequences are close to zero. That is why I have a few questions, Madam Secretary. What are your plans in this respect? Maybe you shouldn't really say anything about this case on the substance. As part of the reform of CSR No. 78 you also talked about a kind of monitoring room that would come under the quality council. If I have understood correctly, perhaps it would be possible to deal with this problem as an absolute point of attention. As you know, I am in favour of letting the counsellors play a role in this and putting them somewhere else, because otherwise the direction will be very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the prison guards' strike at the end of June 2016, I was able to see that doctors were issuing certificates of convenience. I then asked the Medex to carry out additional absenteeism checks in the guards. These checks were carried out immediately. I would like to point out that I am quite convinced that the vast majority of doctors work conscientiously and that they only issue disease certificates if necessary. But I am also convinced that a minority of doctors are guilty of unlawful practices. It is precisely this minority that I am targeting. I intend to solve this problem by establishing profiles to identify the outsiders and make them assume their responsibilities. This accountability of treating physicians is part of the accountability proposals that I have forwarded to Kern. These proposals are still under discussion within the Committee. As we now draw the profiles of the pharmaceutical regulations, we are going to do so for those who prescribe long-term incapacity for work. As you know, in the past, there had to be only a starting date on the prescription of long-term incapacity for work. Now there must also be an end date. It must also be coherent. We can actually do it now, so we can get the outcasts out of the prescriptive behavior. I know there were lists of people who could be sent to get a note. A sudden plague of Egypt seemed to have descended upon the penitentiary officers, thus making them all so-called ill at the same time. Personally, I am not in favour of setting up a point of contact to denounce certificates of convenience because this reminds me of the methods of denouncing the times of dictatorships. Moreover, such contact points only increase distrust in society. It is impossible to base a viable society on a sense of global mistrust. With regard to a certificate with retroactive effect, that is never valid, even if it concerns one day of retroactive effect. It's easy for you to act as chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u54	I can't stand up to the doctor, and I find that just as poignant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u55	We are talking about a doctor who is actually committing a criminal offence, forgery in writing. So there's a name and a penalty for it. As OCMW chairman, you can file a complaint against that doctor. Perhaps you will not be loved in your region, but you can do it. I once had to file a complaint against patients who faked my disability attestations by converting two days to four months to legal cover. There was also falseness in writing, but then because of a patient who had been very ingenious. The study showed that this patient had done this before with other regimens of other physicians. Some people are very inventive. At present, the only penalty provided for a worker who has received a certificate of convenience is that he may not receive a guaranteed wage, in accordance with article 31 of the Act of 3 July on the employment contract. Therefore, the question of whether further sanctions should be laid down and which should be put to my colleague the Minister for Employment. Finally, I would like to point out that strengthening controls and sanctions is not the only way to reduce the rate of absenteeism. An organization or service that faces a high rate of absenteeism should also consider the underlying causes of absenteeism. In general, a high rate of absenteeism is a signal that there is one or the other fundamental problem within the organization or service in question. Mrs Van Peel, you have asked a special question about a doctor in whose case a court decision has also been taken. I can't and can't pronounce on this individual case. It is a case you have cited to show how few resources there are. I can assure you that my administration, both at FPS Health and RIZIV level, considers it very important that fraudulent or criminal behaviour is also prosecuted by professionals, especially when it comes to organised behaviour. Moreover, the means of intervention will also be discussed in the context of the revision of CSR No. 78. There too, we will be able to have more means of action when a professional is in default. This is part of the framework law for the revision of the co-ordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of healthcare professions, but also in the other part, in the context of the draft law on the quality implementation of healthcare. Indeed, we have concluded that there are too few methods and that it is taking far too long. The case you're describing proves that. So there will be much earlier action against people who take a walk with the law in their regulations. I repeat that whoever does it correctly has nothing to fear. Anyone who makes it a kind of promotional article and neglects his social task will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u56	Minister, I agree with you that the vast majority of doctors are doing their job well and are very conscientious about the granting of medical certificates. In this case, this is a small group of doctors who abuse the system and are known. In the canton of Gedinne, I could quote you the name of a doctor known to all who, even if he is not your attending doctor and if you have a problem of absenteeism, makes a real business of this. His name is known and he is a stain on all his other colleagues, who are correct. It is therefore necessary to target a small group of people who abuse. I am not going to raise the debate on absenteeism because we know this subject in the Committee on Social Affairs and in particular the Medex, which is very effective but cannot move in all public services. Moreover, it does not cover all private services and, therefore, its services cannot always be used. On the other hand, the idea of the point of contact seems interesting to me. You consider these projects to come from dictatorial societies! I am surprised because in Social Affairs we voted for a point of contact to denounce social fraud, which is quite the same idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u57	But not anonymously, because it also exists anonymously. And, on this subject, it goes in all directions!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u58	I don't know the text of the N-VA, but it may not be anonymous! As a mayor, I can no problem taking on my remarks and denouncing people. Besides, I had written to the College of Physicians for one case and I had signed my letter. So it wasn't anonymous. It's clear that if it's not anonymous, the lead would be to dig. I have heard, however, that you have a number of concrete leads, which I have not all understood, Madam Minister, but I trust you, so that you, together with the colleagues in Kern, can take this problem with you. This problem is clearly a concern for employers and sometimes also undermines a profession that does not deserve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u59	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. For the sake of clarity, in the article on that hotline there was a quote from me, but I was talking about a hotline for counseling physicians. I don't want to create a society where a doctor's competitor...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u60	It is impossible to think: my neighbor is mowing his grass, he is home again. (...) That can't be. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u61	No, that's not my idea of an ideal society either, but it was the intention to create some sort of hotline and a policy for the counsellors. They're checking cases now. They bump into things and have consequences, especially for the patient, but not for the doctor, who, of course, has ensured that the patient can, unjustly, sit at home. That is a link that I think should be laid more, even though I think the idea of creating profiles and looking for outliers is already a very good idea. However, there is still a chance that only the really big players will be taken out in this way, as in the example I have given. It's a little more hidden sometimes. I can, like my colleague, mention the doctors in my region by name who come up with notes every time I know or feel they are wrong. If you add up what it costs to society, you end up with an incredible number. You may agree with me on that. Yesterday, you may have explained further, I have heard the beginning of your explanation on this matter. 78 also comes a surveillance room. In fact, that seems to me to be a real opportunity to set up a policy on this issue. I would like to continue to argue in favour of involving counsellors, because they are already looking in the same direction. So it is not so difficult to look in the opposite direction at the same time, but they have to be framed in a different way than they are today, because they are now difficult to deal with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u62	Question No 15276 by Mrs Els Van Hoof is transformed into a written question. Question No 15279 by Mrs Renate Hufkens is transformed into a written question at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u63	Madam President, Madam Minister, despite the partial decriminalization of abortion voted in 1990, the voluntary termination of pregnancy remains, in 2016, enshrined in the Penal Code. It is, in my personal opinion, not only a nonsense, but also an infringement of women's freedom, their freedom of choice and their body, since practice can only be carried out under a series of conditions laid down by law. The struggle of women has been going on for decades and, despite all this time, the practice is largely unknown and the information given is insufficient. This is the case in some universities in Belgium where the courses on the practice of voluntary termination of pregnancy seem to be shunned by teachers of gynaecology or general medicine. Before you tell me that it is a competence of the Communities, what I know, Madam Minister, I wanted to ask you a few questions. The information on the FPS Public Health website does not include links to family planning centres or specialist doctors or psychologists. Is it possible to include certain links to facilitate access to the right information? Will a free phone number be added to the page? That's a suggestion. For the entire site, the information is focused on one page and includes brief explanations for pregnant women. Is it envisaged to build a new page with industry professionals to allow access to relevant and consistent information?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u64	Ms Jadin, I don't know if you know, but recently, the FPS Public Health website has been renewed. Recently, the site leads to different pages depending on whether you are a health professional or looking for information for the public. As a reminder, the competent services within the SPF have put on the site dedicated to the commissions information concerning the role of the Commission for the Evaluation of the Act of 3 April 1990 on voluntary termination of pregnancy, as well as, on the general site, an explanation of the law for women facing unwanted pregnancy. Unless otherwise noted by the Commission, my services will also prepare and publish a list of institutions in which pregnancy is interrupted. Thus, women will know where they can apply for help. The possibility of drawing up information documents with professionals will also be submitted to the Commission in order to define the details of such documents. I think it is not only necessary for women to know what can be done, but also where they can speak and where they will be helped.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u65	Madam Minister, thank you. I did not have the opportunity to visit the FPS website again. I can only congratulate you on taking up this subject, which I think is, I repeat, very important. The information must be the best possible. Communication on existing possibilities should be as comprehensive as possible. I'll go see what's happening on your department's website. Minister, there is a second question. Maybe we can get back to it. You're a doctor. I was wondering about the fact that in university curricula, practices related to voluntary termination of pregnancy are no longer taught to medical students, with the exception of ULB and possibly VUB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u66	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u67	I think that's a problem. We will still have to think about it, or at least we will have to draw the attention of the federated entities to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u68	Minister, the existence of a dual cohort may be an opportunity to organize internships in family planning centres rather than hospitals. But we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u69	Madam President, I know that the double cohort is your dada, but that has nothing to do with it. Those in the double cohort have already had these studies. Of course, it is important at university level, but it is also important to target secondary schools because, if I recall correctly, we received sex education in grades 5 and 6, at the age of 11 and 12. I also note that young people do not have sufficient information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u70	That's right. It's basic health information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u71	Yes. It is not only about informing about the existence of the pill but also about how to take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u72	I also consider that to be a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u73	We will move on to the next point, but here the training of future doctors was discussed. That's why I was talking about internship opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u74	Madam President, Minister, we are very much in the news because we have just celebrated International Women's Rights Day. More than ever, the fight for respect for women is important and necessary in our country. It is not only a fight for more respect, but also a fight against discrimination and inequality. Minister, the latest figures on the abuse of women in the Walloon Region are intriguing: 18 rapes committed every day with only 16% of victims addressing the authorities. In these situations, the aggressor is mainly a man and the victims of minors. In addition to sexual assault, some women live in hell in their marital life, where they experience physical or sexual abuse. In addition to proven violence against women, it is also the fear of talking about it and the sense of guilt that drives their freedom in our society. I know that this is not your only jurisdiction. But I'm interested in whether your department knows how many women are victims of violence in Belgium every day? How many women or girls were raped in 2016 in our country? What are the means in place to support victims? Again, is there any information we could get from your department?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u75	As far as the abuse of women is concerned, you know that there is a database containing the medical data summarized as a minimum hospital within the Federal Public Health Service. This database centralizes the medical data for each hospitalized patient in an anonymized form. These medical data are transmitted periodically by hospitals to the Public Health FPS in the form of codes derived from the ICD international classification. However, the administration does not yet have the figures for the years 2015 and 2016. Here I present the data for the years 2010 to 2014. These figures relate to stays in regular hospitalization, day hospitalization and long-term hospitalization. In total, for this period, approximately five patients per year are hospitalized, after having been subjected to violence, for at least one night in the hospital. These may be psychological, emotional, psychological, sexual or other violence. The number of minor and major patients registered in our hospitals as victims of sexual violence is around one hundred. I can give you the exact figures if you wish. Several points deserve to be made, which call for these figures to be considered with great reservations. First of all, the number of women victims of violence or rape is more than probably under-recorded, since not everyone dares to declare that they have been victims of violence and have been admitted under another pretext. Patients who have come to an outpatient clinic, through an emergency procedure, and who have not been hospitalized, are not included in the figures mentioned. This is a great pity because it is the case of many. The figures for violence in general refer only to women aged 18 and over, while it is known that there are also cases in younger women or girls. The concept of sexual abuse is much broader than the concept of rape, given that sexual abuse is included in sexual abuse. The code in the ICD (NCM) method is not specific to rape. For more accurate figures, I refer you to my colleagues in the Interior and Justice, provided that the victims have made a statement to the police. There are also many who make a statement and withdraw it afterwards. Training in the care of victims of domestic and sexual violence took place from 1 to 30 September 2015 in fourteen hospitals across the country and was aimed at the following professionals: emergency doctors, geriatricians, gynaecologists, paediatricians, as well as social, emergency and paediatric nurses, social workers, midwives and psychologists. This training was provided by the International Centre for Reproductive Health of the University of Ghent, in partnership with the CHU Saint-Pierre in Brussels. On this occasion, the project team also developed a checklist so that victims of sexual violence could receive optimal care in Belgian hospitals. It has been designed on the basis of international guidelines. It responds to the need for a clear and accessible tool. With regard to the care of victims of sexual violence, the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities is preparing a pilot project on multidisciplinary reference centres. I hope that Mrs Demir will continue along this path; I think that will be the case. Caregivers working in these centres will undoubtedly express a need for specialized training. In addition, it is necessary to establish a systematic and uniform collection in Belgian hospitals of data on victims of domestic and sexual violence. Mrs Jadin, I will send you the annex, which contains a lot of figures. It should be noted that many victims have not reported. My department is represented on the steering committee for the study of the feasibility of setting up these centres known as the Sexual Assault Referral Centre (SARC). In addition, a new training project on domestic violence, including sexual violence, has just begun. It will be addressed to twelve hospitals: five in the Walloon Region, two in the Brussels Region and five in the Flemish Region. These trainings are planned later this year. For the sake of continuity, their organization will be taken over by the team that had carried out the project in 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u76	Madam Minister, thank you for all this information. I have already asked the Ministers of the Interior and Justice, in order to supplement the existing statistics. As recently as yesterday, there was a symposium in the Senate on the rape of women – it also exists in other circumstances – in the world. Even though I knew that, depending on cultures, the phenomenon could be more or less widespread, I was surprised to see that in our country, it is really a very important subject, which must be taken with arms, which must be analysed, for which we must find the best means of prevention. I note that as far as your department is concerned, you take things with you and I can only be satisfied with it. We will try to see, with all the collected elements, how all this is combined in practice to demonstrate or not effectiveness. As you say, a rape may not always be listed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u77	Madam President, Madam Minister, nurses who obtained their diploma outside Europe and want to work in Flanders must have their diploma aligned with a Flemish degree in nursing. For this, they apply to the FPS Public Health Office. A Dutch-speaking committee must then come together to discuss the files. We are regularly informed from the field of work that this does not work smoothly and that this committee does not meet, so that a number of applicants have been waiting for an answer for more than a year. It is a bottleneck profession and it is therefore important that we should be able to bring these people into the care sector. What's the problem there? How many files are there waiting? Has the committee come together yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u78	Madam President, Madam Minister, I also have problems with the recognition of foreign nurses with work permits who wish to work in the German-speaking Community. Some files deemed complete and admissible by the Public Health FPS would not be processed at this time because the Commission in charge of the file would have been dissolved. The files would therefore be blocked. For example, an administrative expert from the "Access to the Profession" unit of the FPS Public Health responded that "such a person's file has been complete since 4 October 2016 and is now waiting for passage to the Dutch-speaking nursing committee. Indeed, there is an agreement with the Dutch-speaking Commission for the passage of the dossiers on the German-speaking side. Unfortunately the Dutch-speaking commission no longer decides, because it is dissolved and so for the moment all the files are blocked." This is in summary why the request is blocked until the matter has been referred to the committee! Minister, are you aware of this problem? What are the reasons for the dissolution of the commission? How long has the Commission been dissolved? Could you tell me how many files are currently blocked? What are you planning to do to resolve this situation? Have you had any contact with your colleagues from the federated entities on this subject? What were the results of these contacts? How long do you think a solution will be found?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u79	Mrs Dedry, Mr de Lamotte, I must say that there are difficulties in all the Communities. It also causes problems in our home for recognition. The non-European nurses, in application of Article 145 of the Coordinated Law of 10 May 2015, request access to their profession in Belgium at the Public Health Office, but they should initially have their diploma declared equivalent by the competent departments of Education before their file can be taken into account by the FOD. The FPS must therefore first have proof from the services of Education that it is an equivalent diploma. At the moment there are 16 French-language and 23 Dutch-language files which have been found complete by my administration and which have yet to be submitted for advice to the recognition committee for nursing practitioners. In addition, 7 French-language and 14 Dutch-language files have been submitted, which are not yet complete and require further advice, once the applicant has provided the necessary documents. If we count them together, we will get 23 French and 37 Dutch files that are known to the FOD. I am aware of the problem concerning non-European nurses who wish, under Article 145, to work in Belgium and whose file is blocked because of a missing opinion. The persons concerned submitted an application for recognition to the Public Health FPS after obtaining an equivalence of their diploma from the competent authorities for education. The above-mentioned Article 145 provides that the application must be submitted for the opinion of the Accreditation Commission for Nurse Practitioners, which has been split and transferred to the respective Communities since 1 July 2014, as part of the Sixth State Reform. The federal government therefore has no impact on the organization of the meetings of these committees. As a result of this reform of the State, the Communities are indeed in the process of re-establishing the commissions according to their powers. For the Flemish Community, the procedure began in early 2016. For the French Community, the procedure began at the end of 2016. When some people write to us, because before the cases came to us, we systematically transfer to the respective Communities, requests which are obviously urgent. At the moment, there are no blocked French-language files, since the French-speaking committee has decided to continue to convene the old members in order to be able to deliver opinions, until the mandates are renewed. This is already a very good initiative. On the Dutch side there are 23 complete files for which we are waiting for an opinion. There the decision was not taken to continue meeting with the old members until there is a new committee to ensure continuity. In addition, there are at least 3 German-language files waiting for an opinion from the Flemish Community. In the meantime, given the problem and our desire for more nurses to exercise, our administration has come into contact with the administration of the Flemish Community. A solution is expected in the coming weeks. The persons concerned will be notified as soon as their file is released. My administration will ensure that the authorization to practise the profession is issued to them as soon as possible. So we are going to try to make up for some of the lost time. The recognition committee for nursing practitioners was indeed split up and transferred to the respective Communities as a result of the sixth state reform. The federal government depends on the advice of the community body. We cannot therefore demand or see the organisation of the meetings. In addition, the Flemish Community has for a long time been subject to a procedure to renew the mandates of the members of the Dutch-speaking section, from the beginning of 2016, which has meant that no meetings have been held for a long time and that there is no prospect of a new meeting. The same problem is also likely to arise on the French-speaking side. We are looking with the cabinet, in consultation with the Communities and the administration, for an alternative and legally final solution to this impasse, so that the pending dossiers can be dealt with in the near future. I have seen a few more passing, but the difficulties are really great. The people continue to write to the Communities, to Education. I do not know what happens to those letters, but those involved are not helped immediately. We have already put a lot of energy into this, because we know how much the need for nurses on the ground is. For nurses who are willing to work, we must not delay in giving them the opportunity because we need them. We don't have enough nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u80	Madam President, Madam Minister, as early as the beginning of 2016, the Dutch-speaking side of the country has been putting together the committee, which does not seem to succeed. So I do not understand how you are going to unblock the problem in a number of cases. The committee has not been properly constituted at the moment. You note that you are making every effort and you are still trying to unblock a number of files. However, not having a committee put together for a whole year seems bizarre to me. How can we give these people an answer? Should we ask them to keep writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u81	You might find a Flemish MEP from Green who can raise that. If they can go to Seventh Day, so can they. We cannot act until they have passed and their diplomas have been declared equivalent. We also know that there is a shortage. It's too crazy for words that those involved can't work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u82	I'll do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u83	With the transfer through the sixth state reform, there are a number of things that were not finished. That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u84	Minister, I don't know if they'll accept me to De Zevende Dag. I understood that the problem on the francophone side was solved, as there was continuity in the public service. However, some nurses apply within the framework of the German-speaking Community and it is really boring. There are three of them, you said. I really wish, even if you say that you have already spent a lot of energy on this matter, that your administration could activate this file. We really have to respond to that request. It's a shortage of jobs and there are applicants. I'm counting on your dynamism. If the situation isn't going to unblock, count on me to see you again!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u85	We'll act at all levels!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u86	Minister, I asked this question both to you and to your colleague Minister Kris Peeters because, in and of itself, it is not really a drug. It is in fact a product that is contained in tablets and gels known as "homeopathic" which are intended to relieve the pain associated with dental thrusts, especially in babies. The FDA (Food and Drug Administration) issued a warning last September warning that these tablets and gels could pose a serious secondary alert risk for the little ones. The FDA therefore recommends that these products no longer be used. This is the second alert that comes in. A first alert was launched in 2010 by the FDA. Minister, are the products in question in the two successive FDA opinions allowed in Belgium? Has the AFMPS been alerted to the hazards? Has it taken into account FDA opinions related to the use of these tablets and gels in babies? If there are additional elements that are not currently known to the general public, is the origin of the dangerousness of these products identified? Do you consider that it is on the side of the AFMPS or on the side of the Department of Economy that special measures should be taken in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u87	Mrs Fonck, Hyland's products are not authorised in Belgium and are therefore not issued as medicines. In Belgium, an authorised homeopathic medicine must be evaluated for the quality, safety and efficacy of the product. Such a medicinal product should also be manufactured under GMP conditions as described in the European guidance documents and should include a clear package leaflet for patients including dosage and method of administration. The services of the Medicines Agency, AFMPS, consider that it is not necessary to take action in Belgium since this product Hyland is not on the market. If it were to be done, it should be the subject of an application for a marketing authorisation, including data to ensure the quality, efficacy and safety of the product. The Food and Drug Administration alerted the Medicines Agency in early October 2016 via the Pharmacovigilance Service. The Homeopathic Medical Products Working Group also informed its members, including AFMPS, shortly thereafter. The Homeopathic Medicinal Products Working Group is the European working group dedicated to homeopathic medicines for human and veterinary use. Hyland's product contains, in particular, a dilution of Belladone, i.e. a dilution D6, dilution of the product to one millionth, i.e. (10-6). According to the safety assessment report of the Homeopathic Medicinal Products Working Group, this dilution does not pose a toxicity problem. However, my services remain vigilant because the amount of belladone may vary from product to product depending on the Food and Drug Administration alert. In addition, errors in medication use have also been reported in the United States. In any event, we remain vigilant even if, for the time being, there are no problems here. It is still possible for tourists to buy this product when they are abroad. Indeed, it cannot be bought in Belgium, but it can be used here after being bought in another country. So I'm going to interview the Agency again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u88	Minister, may I ask you to go further. In my personal capacity, I obviously tried to see if it was possible to dispose of it in Belgium. It's going very fast. In two minutes, I found this teathing gel, this homeopathic gel specifically intended for babies. Just click on the internet and you have it in three seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u89	Sold here?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u90	You know as well as I do that there are excavators online. The invasion, via the internet, of a whole series of products makes this product available in Belgium with an accessibility to purchase this product which is clearly recommended for use during dental thrusts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u91	That's not allowed. It's illegal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u92	Mrs. Fonck, have you been until the purchase?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u93	Yes. It's easy. I didn't buy it because I don't have a baby. I have big teenagers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u94	I ask you this to see if the process is done to the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u95	It's very simple. It's like a lot of other things. Remember our debate on the next day's contraceptives. I had explained that they were available in three seconds by clicking but that we were obliged to pass... but, either, I am not going to go back to that debate so as not to mix up the topics. Madam Minister, in Belgium, anyone can buy this product extremely quickly. So to say that it is not issued in Belgium is not fair. I would therefore like to insist on a more correct hunt on the way in which these products are made available via e-commerce sales, but, in my opinion, this is almost impossible. The other solution is to take information measures. The FDA delivered its opinion last September and I tabled this issue in December. However, you confirmed it to me and I checked it yesterday, no specific information measures were taken in Belgium. I would therefore like to insist because parents who would not seek more than that scientific information about the product can actually very easily buy it and put it in the mouths of babies. Thank you for taking stock of this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u96	Question No 15431 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u97	Madam Minister, the Law on Medically Accompanied Reproduction and the Destination of the Related Embellishments and Gametes of 2007 provides that the King may determine a fee to cover travel costs or loss of earnings of a person in whom a reduction is made. That reimbursement may also cover related hospital costs. At present there is only one KB that regulates the implementation of that law a bit. Therefore, it appears that there are no KBs implementing Articles 48-51. We are almost ten years later and it appears that there is still not enough initiative for a fair remuneration for the game donors. It is, of course, an optional option and not an obligation. Madam Secretary, what do you think of the plan to develop a reimbursement system? Do you intend to take implementing decisions in this area or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u98	Mrs Dedry, as you point out, Article 51 (1) of the Law of 6 July 2007 on the medically assisted reproduction and the destination of the remaining embryos and gametes provides that the free donation of gametes is permitted. However, the King may determine a fee to cover travel costs or loss of earnings of the person in whom a purchase is made. The compensation may also cover the hospital costs associated with the purchase of the ova from the donor. Article 38 of the same law contains a similar provision, which applies to the use of gametes in a scientific research programme. It is not easy to determine standard amounts that can be applied to all situations. Moreover, I have not been informed of any problems with the application of the law in this field. I do not know of excessive fees that would exceed the donor's expenses or loss of income. I therefore believe that there is no need for a new legislative initiative here for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u99	I take note of the position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u100	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to my information, the IZOM agreement is about to be reviewed. Recently, the mutuals of the border region no longer issue the IZOM certificate and therefore, starting next July (the agreement was extended by six months), patients will no longer be able to be automatically reimbursed for specialized treatments abroad. A new solution had to be found. As a reminder, the IZOM agreement had been adopted to allow German-speaking patients to receive treatment in their mother tongue. In your last answer to this, which is already a year or even a year and a half ago, you told me that your administration was preparing an in-depth evaluation of the IZOM project because some mutuals had abused the system. If we can review this system and put in place a new and appropriate form of this system, we will have to avoid further abuses on the part of the Belgian State. We agree. Minister, have you ever been able to negotiate the existing possibilities to extend or even implement a new IZOM-type agreement. What is the result of this? Do you already have any communications to make about this? I have adapted the question a little according to the current situation. It was mandatory!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u101	Dear colleague, the answer has been updated in the meantime. Refreshing the questions tabled gives us constant work, as we mentioned yesterday. An ad hoc working group on the IZOM cooperation agreement has been established. Its objective is to draw up a proposal for a consensus on the future of the IZOM cooperation agreement, as well as possible alternative solutions. This working group meets under the chairmanship of INAMI. It is composed of one representative from each National Union, the Auxiliary Fund for Sickness and Disability Insurance (CAAMI), the Health Care Fund of HR Rail (CSS HR Rail) and the German-speaking Community, the latter in its capacity as adviser. In the meantime, the working group met on several occasions: 17 November, 28 November and 6 December in 2016, and 26 January 2017. It should be noted that a majority of the members of the Working Group are not prepared to accede to the financial conditions imposed unilaterally by the AOK Rheinland Hamburg, according to which they could not offer guarantees of a continuation of the IZOM cooperation agreement. It follows that the IZOM cooperation agreement ceases de facto to exist and must be terminated. As provided for in the IZOM Cooperation Agreement, the Insurance Committee withdrew its approval for the Cooperation Agreement on 19 December 2016. The Belgian insurers, parties to the IZOM cooperation agreement, were invited to inform the foreign signatory parties before 31 December 2016 of the insurance committee's decision that the cooperation agreement will end on 30 June 2017, while respecting six months' notice. As regards an alternative solution which facilitates the accessibility of healthcare in Germany for our German-speaking citizens who are currently eligible for the IZOM cooperation agreement, the Working Group has in the meantime agreed on the following elements: - this scheme will apply to the inhabitants of the eastern cantons as well as the communes of Baelen, Bleiberg and Welkenraedt; - this scheme will provide for a simplification of access to acute care providers in a well-defined geographical area in Germany, in particular the Aachen region and the districts of Bitburg, Daun and Prüm. It is the same geographical area in Germany covered by the IZOM Agreement; - an administrative S2 document or form E112 will be issued for health care to which the alternative scheme will apply; - Belgian and European rules as they also apply to other Belgian insured persons will apply to health care not covered by the alternative scheme. It's the same as for everyone else. The health care to which the alternative scheme will apply will be defined on the basis of the following elements: - the package of benefits covered by compulsory federal health care insurance is the reference; - the medical needs for which German language is an essential element; - insufficient supply for the inhabitants to whom the alternative scheme will apply. The Working Group continues its work in 2017 and is of the opinion that an agreement should be reached on the health benefits to which the alternative scheme will apply, at the latest in the second half of March 2017, so that insurers have the time to communicate on the new scheme, in particular to their insured persons and to the Belgian healthcare providers concerned. The evaluation report of the IZOM cooperation agreement contains a statistical overview of patients as well as a SWOT analysis. Meanwhile, a regime for German-speaking citizens is being discussed, as the IZOM agreement will end on 30 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u102	Madam Minister, thank you for all this information. We can welcome the fact that the working group was able to reach a consensus and, above all, a solution. I know it wasn't easy. We know that some mutuals have suggested that this system could no longer be covered by social security. Moreover, in order to succeed the agreement which runs until June, we will gradually set up the new system. I urge you, Madam Minister, to maintain control of the matter, of course with INAMI, and to communicate the new provisions well so that they are fully understood. Indeed, many things are said in my region, poorly oriented and misunderstood because of what I consider to be a lack of communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u103	Madam Minister, I have the feeling that you have already answered this question. The majority adopted a resolution in the Flemish Parliament. That was after the announcement of the 110 action points in Minister Vandeurzen's household care plan. I got two points out of that because they can happen in consultation with the federal government. Firstly, the recommendation to create a low-threshold and clearly identifiable digital information point. It expressly states that this is to be done in consultation with the federal government. I'd like to know if anything has happened. A second recommendation aims to see the caregiver as a fully-fledged partner, with all the advantages of this. We talked about it yesterday. We want to involve the caregiver in a decent way and possibly also give access to the care file. Federally, there are certainly other things that can be done, such as continuing training for care providers in order to improve communication. That was discussed yesterday. And then what you yourself have mentioned a number of times, even in the presentation of my book on respite care and breathing breaks. There's a statute waiting for you. Implementing decisions have yet to be taken. What's the timing of that? Has there been any agreement in the government on how to proceed with the implementation of this Statute? After all, I understand that some colleagues in the government see this differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u104	In fact, we talked yesterday about family care. It is of course intended that carers should be truly recognised in the care they help to give to people with reduced autonomy. However, the pressure of care should not shift to the carers. I have said it on several occasions: their rights must be safeguarded. The carers have a vital role to play. At 75% of the elderly there is a desire to be cared for at home as long as possible, even if they become weaker and less self-reliant. It is important to examine, in cooperation with the regions and municipalities, which initiatives are best suited to the needs of carers. I note that Mr Vandeurzen has already proposed his care plan. Despite the many civil society organisations and advisory councils that have delivered their opinion on the implementation of the Law of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of the caregiver assisting a person with a high need for care, a number of bottlenecks remain as regards the implementation of the Royal Implementing Decisions. It's my belief that we should be more methodical. It is my wish to first work out the recognition as such. We must first determine who the target group of entitled carers is and define them. Afterwards, we can determine what social benefits can be attached to this recognition. Not all coalition partners share that view. That is a bottleneck that has not yet been resolved. Recently, the Observatory for the chronic diseases of RIZIV gave its views. The advice of the Observatory was general, but also focused on a number of specific points. Among other things, it indicated that the Royal Implementing Decrees should clearly state that they are very specific carers and that this choice should also be justified. Consultations have also been held with the mutualities, which have been followed up by a note from the National Intermutualist College on this subject. On the basis of these opinions, I have been able to accurately identify the problem. Once this yard has been completed, the social benefits that can be attached to the recognition should be examined in cooperation with fellow ministers. There is no breakthrough in this area, which means that there is no certainty about the royal execution decisions. As mentioned earlier in the committee, I consider the caregiver to be a crucial actor and accessor between the professional caregivers and the services and the patients themselves. However, it is unnecessary to change access to the electronic healthcare file. Every patient has access to his electronic health record. Given the role of the caregiver as a trusted person, there are no problems in terms of access or management. Moreover, it runs counter to the limits of the effectiveness of access rights and hence the privacy of health data. The third question is a subject for the Minister of Work, Kris Peeters. I have always stressed the importance of this at meetings and meetings on this subject. Several opinions, including those of knowledge centre mandmaakzorg.be, underline that grace care can lead to real care relief for the caregiver. Last year the Baillet Latour Chair was also founded at Ghent University. The first project of this chair aims to assess the impact of supporting carers in people with dementia. The first results should be obtained by the end of this year. If this scientific study shows that care provision for caregivers is effectively facilitated by the establishment of grace care, it is necessary to examine how we can support these initiatives with the whole of the public authorities. I give my full support to the plans of the Länder. I also organised a consultation on 16 November 2016 in my cabinet with Minister Vandeurzen's cabinet in response to his household care plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u105	You are of good will and you would like to move forward on this dossier, but I have had the answer on several occasions that there is no breakthrough because there is no agreement within the government. So I can only ask you if and how I can help you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u106	The ball's not in the green camp, so you can't help.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u107	So all we have to do is ask questions, wait and claim.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u108	Question No 15496 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u109	This problem is linked to the bill we discussed, which we voted on and which will come back to plenary, without any debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to act as if we had not dealt with the subject. We've been talking about this for several hours. So I suggest that you ask your questions by summarising the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u110	Madam President, Madam Minister, taking into account everything that has been said and everything we know about it, can you tell me whether the meeting that took place in your office with the Medicines Agency and patient associations has led to concrete initiatives? Following the revelation of the situation in France and the initiative taken to compensate the victims, do you intend to take similar measures on your part? Would it not be time, finally, to carry out a census of victims or to give a more attentive ear to the suggestion, already made by colleagues in committee, to affix a specific logo to alert pregnant women, as is already the case in France?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u111	Madam President, I shall turn directly to the questions because, as has been said, the debate has already taken place. Minister, you have recently indicated in the press that the AFMPS has received a proposal for action. Can you tell us more about the principles? You also said you would like to receive the Agency's report as soon as possible. When is he expected? Victims' associations ask for a census of children affected by the side effects of the molecule, as was done in France. Are you in favour of it? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u112	Madam Secretary, I agree. Do you support the recommendations of the Independent Hospital Funds? What do you think of the government's mission to better disseminate information, whether or not in cooperation with the sickness funds? Will you make a budget for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u113	Madam President, since I am not a member of the Committee on Health, I am not aware of the debate you have conducted. Madam Minister, I was already asking you in June 2015 about the issue of Dépakine and the time taken to consider side effects on the foetus when administering this medication to pregnant women. You will recall that I asked you then what information you had about the legal actions brought by Belgian patients who had been victims of the toxic effects of valproate. You told me that an action against the Belgian State and the doctors was under way. This month of December 2016, a collective action, permitted by an amendment to the French law on the subject, was initiated by patients who had been prescribed this medicine. It should be stressed that these actions are long and the compensation delayed to a very long time. This is all the longer since these collective actions, constituted as a ram to pave the way for compensation to patients who will be individually, lead to extremely hypothetical compensations. Indeed, the passing of time, the evidence, the induced side effects, can be lost or breached by remission following discontinuation of treatment. Establishing the responsibility of the laboratory would shorten the procedure if the judge assumed causality, particularly when a child had a behavioural disorder while his mother had taken Dépakine during her pregnancy. This would also allow victims to be dispensed with a trial phase of expertise. Minister, can you give us more details on the status of the proceedings initiated by Belgian patients? What is the situation with regard to the Belgian State's liability action? How many doctors are involved in legal proceedings in Belgium? Have you taken legal action seeking recognition of the laboratory's responsibility? If the latter is recognized by the French justice system, will you use it to deal with this case? How will collective legal action in France affect the resolution of Belgian patient files? Have any provisions been made to ensure future compensation for the patients concerned who may initiate legal proceedings? How do you intend to act to ensure that reparation is made, within a reasonable time and in a satisfactory manner, for the damage suffered? What actions and/or decisions have been referred to or adopted at European level to provide a finally convergent response to the patients concerned in the European area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u114	Madam President, in order to enlighten my colleague, I would like to point out that we debated in this committee a bill that I tabled a year ago on valproate, in particular Dépakine, and, more generally, teratogenic medicines. Minister, I think the stake is threefold. First of all, we must give ourselves the maximum chance of preventing pregnant women from taking valproate, but also teratogenic medicines, even though an alternative is possible and relevant in the treatment of epilepsy. While the package leaflet contained clear indications, they were insufficient. This information could be much more visible, particularly in the form of a message indicating that taking any medicinal product containing sodium valproate by a pregnant woman requires medical consultation. This would allow for more effective action from the very beginning of pregnancy. We know that teratogenicity will be all the more important at that time. It should be involved in repeated information campaigns. It should be noted that 12,500 women and adolescent girls of childbearing age are receiving this treatment in Belgium. I turn to the second part, which concerns the identification of patients who have taken sodium valproate during pregnancy and whose child has unfortunately suffered the consequences directly. This census is essential, but it has not yet been established. Finally, of course, my third concern is the compensation of victims. As you did not come to committee and this has been a lot of work on the subject, that is the least we can say, let us acknowledge that a change of attitude has occurred between last year, where I was almost seen as a Martian when I came with this file, and today, where colleagues have clearly been convinced – and I am delighted about it. I would like the state and the majority, dear Jean-Jacques, to take their responsibilities. The health authorities have been far too late in this case. The time has come to make up for this delay. But your measures are still insufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u115	Mrs. Jadin's gone. I shall therefore pass the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u116	Madam Chair, I thank the various members of the House who asked me. First of all, Mrs Caprasse, the meeting with the Medicines Agency and the patient associations, to which you refer, did not take place in my office. At the request of the Commission for Medicinal Products for Human Use, a working group was set up in March 2016 within the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AFMPS) to consider the possibility of a visual warning on the packaging of teratogenic medicinal products, such as Dépakine, and to gather information on initiatives taken in this field in the different Member States of the European Union. The conclusions of this working group were presented to the Commission on Medicinal Products for Human Use at its meeting on 16 December 2016 and were transmitted as a report to the AFMPS on 13 January 2017. The conclusions validated and commented on by the AFMPS were forwarded to me at the end of January. The Committee on Medicinal Products for Human Use recommends the following: First of all, a warning icon should not appear on the packaging of the teratogenic medicinal products. It concerns all medicinal products for which additional risk mitigation measures concerning the teratogenic risk are necessary. For example, we are talking about educational material for patients or healthcare professionals, such as a pregnancy prevention programme. In addition, all medicinal products for which the summary of characteristics explicitly documents that a risk of developmental toxicity or teratogenicity has been identified based on the analysis of the results of human studies. In parallel, an information campaign on the significance of the pictogram to patients and doctors should also be launched. Secondly, an independent effectiveness study should be carried out to assess the effectiveness of the measures and a teratogenic information service should be established. The first analysis of the FAGG shows that the pictogram, as recommended by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, should be applied at about 50% of all medicines. This has enormous consequences for both the FAGG and industry. AFMPS only partially follows the recommendations of the Commission for Medicinal Products for Human Use. Thus, it does not recommend a pictogram on the packaging of teratogenic medicinal products, in order to avoid misinterpretations leading either to an inappropriate sense of safety in the absence of a pictogram or to a spontaneous discontinuation of treatment which may be indispensable for the patient when a pictogram is present. After discussion with AFMPS, repeated information campaigns will be organized on a regular basis to inform patients, especially women of reproductive age and pregnant women, about the risks associated with taking medication during pregnancy and the need to always consult their doctor or pharmacist. Awareness-raising campaigns for doctors and health-care workers will also be organized. A pictogram will be affixed to the packaging of all medicinal products containing valproate. Sanofi, the company that developed valproate, has indeed taken this initiative at the global level. It seems important to me, in the interests of consistency, to extend the measure to all medicinal products containing valproate, an original and generic molecule included. Belgium will address the wider issue of all potentially teratogenic products at European level. It is indeed important to have a common and coherent approach in the various countries of the European Union. To date, only France has taken measures to affix a pictogram to this type of product. As regards the compensation of the families concerned, there are currently no specific measures provided for outside the scope of recourse to the Medication Accident Fund. It is difficult to make promises about a specific compensation fund like the one created in France. This is not easily feasible and does not fit into my skills. It is very important to avoid new victims. That is why I have decided to take the additional measures I have just described. These are in addition to the risk minimisation measures put in place in 2014 following the recommendations made by the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee in the EMA following a reassessment of the risks associated with valproate intake. These measures can be summarized as follows. First, the package leaflets for the public and summaries of product characteristics of medicinal products containing valproate have been updated, and now mention that in female children and adolescents and women of childbearing potential, valproate treatment should be prescribed and monitored by a physician who specializes in epilepsy or bipolar disorders. It is also indicated that valproate may cause malformations and psychomotor developmental disorders in children if taken during pregnancy. If you are a woman of childbearing potential, you should use effective contraception during your treatment. Treatment should be initiated only in case of ineffectiveness or intolerance to other treatments and the benefit of the medicinal product should be carefully re-evaluated by the treating physician at regular intervals during treatment. This was also mentioned in direct communication to health professionals. An article in the monthly magazine Folia of March 2015 was also dedicated to valproate. This article is also intended for healthcare professionals and contains information to warn pregnant women or women of childbearing potential about the risk of pregnancies. Following the European recommendations, the pharmaceutical companies concerned had to develop educational material to inform about the risk derivatives associated with valproate in pregnant women or women of childbearing potential. The material includes a guide for healthcare professionals, an information leaflet for patients, which doctors should give to their patients and which they need to discuss with them the risk derivatives, and a form for acknowledgement of risk information, which the physician and the patient should sign. The FAGG has published recommendations on strengthening the use restrictions of valproate of the European Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC). The recommendations of the Independent Hospital Funds are in line with the risk mitigation measures mentioned above that have been in force since 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u117	Before I turn to the lines, I'm gonna have to get replaced. I must attend a debate on transgender and transgender people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u118	Minister, this scandal must be brought to an end. It is unacceptable that pregnant women should still be prescribed this type of medication. Thanks to the complaint against X filed by a few victims, it is hoped that responsibilities will be established, both by the pharmaceutical companies and by the actors concerned. But this is not enough: there is a public health responsibility in this case. We really count on you to take all the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u119	I agree with my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u120	Me too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u121	Mr President, I will be a little longer but faster. Minister, Sanofi decided to put on a logo. So you don't have a choice since Sanofi requires you to impose the logo for all other medicines that contain valproate. Furthermore, I can only deplore the fact that the AFMPS, in collaboration with your firm, refused the logo when the Commission for Medicinal Products for Human Use had given a positive opinion on the introduction of this type of logo on teratogenic medicinal products. May I remind you that on my bill, the whole sector (the doctors, pharmacists, patient associations, platforms in the north and south of the country) converged to apply this logo. You explain that this is not a good plan because the patient may stop the medication inappropriately. Let me tell you that in the notice exactly the same thing is written. If I am your argument, it would mean that this element of the package leaflet should be deleted, which is nonsense. Your argument from Europe is only partially valid. You know as well as I do that packages are suitable for countries because you have to take the language into account. At home, for example, several languages are mandatory on this packaging. The choice not to extend it to all teratogenic medicines is, in my view, a mistake that is the responsibility of the State. You know as well as I know that without a legal basis, a whole series of pharmaceutical companies will not. I'm not just talking about valproate, I'm talking about other teratogenic drugs. Tomorrow, whether in five or ten years, we will come back to discuss this problem, but about another medicine. On the other hand, I regret that you did not talk about the census or the compensation of patients and, above all, their children.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u122	You didn't listen to me, because I talked about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u123	Yeah, well, you're referring to Justice, but it's a little short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u124	Mrs Fonck, your question number 15523 concerns physiotherapy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u125	Mr. President, I have to leave. I would therefore like my following questions to be deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u126	It won't be for next week, but for the 29th. Therefore, the following questions by Mrs Fonck are deferred (Nos. 15523, 15538, 15539, 15763, 15764, 15783, 15784, 15785, 15786, 15787, 15790, 15791, 15882, 16086, 17161, 16737, 16721, 16767, 16768, 17133, 17173 and 17184).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u127	Minister, a budget of €3.5 million has been made available for the development of mobile smartphone apps that allow physicians to remotely monitor the health status of their patients. It is clear that investment in these new technologies is a necessity in order to promote the improvement of the medical coverage of all our citizens. I can only encourage you to continue with this approach. Nevertheless, I would like to know more about the objectives of these new means thus mobilised. Minister, what mobile applications have been selected for this project? In concrete terms, how were they chosen? Medically, what are the objectives pursued? What synergies are planned with representatives of health professionals (I am thinking in particular of physicians) to promote the re-appropriation of government-supported tools? What is the scope of the medical coverage provided by these new tools? Could you provide us with a timetable for the construction of this site? Thank you for your answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u128	Minister, in June 2016, a budget of €3.25 million had been released to support the implementation of e-health pilot projects in five areas of health: diabetes, mental health, stroke, cardiovascular care and chronic pain. As I asked you about this last October, you told me that 97 project proposals had been received and that an evaluation procedure had been initiated. In addition, you indicated that, as a result of this evaluation, the selected projects would be launched in December. Minister, can you provide an update on the various projects that have been selected, based on the five themes mentioned above, among the 97 proposals received? Are they already implemented? Can you tell us how long and how these pilot projects will be evaluated? What follow-up will be given to projects whose evaluation will be considered positive?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u129	The call for projects on mobile health initiatives was distributed on 1 July 2016 via a press release in French and Dutch on the INAMI website as well as on my website. A similar procedure was used for other calls for projects, including hospitalisation or short-stay delivery projects. The proposed approach and the call itself have been the subject of various communications within the framework of the intercabinets e-health working group of the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health, a working group in which representatives of the Walloon Minister of Health and his administration also participate. As of 15 April 2016, a first discussion took place in this working group on the types of applications to be tested through pilot projects. At the May meeting, the five selected themes were communicated to the members of the working group, stating that the call would be launched at the beginning of the third quarter, that the selection of projects was planned for the fourth quarter of 2016 and that the projects would start in early 2017. In June, a survey was launched within the sector to identify the types of applications presented in the field of health care. In the course of this investigation, the announcement of a call for projects was circulated and members of the intercabinets working group were informed that the approach had been approved by the INAMI Insurance Committee. At its meeting in September, the intercabinets working group was informed of the decisions taken by the Steering Committee responsible for Action 19 of the e-Health Plan on the composition of the Project Selection Committee, selection criteria and qualitative criteria for the evaluation of projects, recalling the timing. There is, first, the introduction of applications until 30 September 2016. Field actors have three months to draft their proposals. Secondly, there is the selection of applications on the basis of the dossiers and pitches in October; the decision on funding and projects in November; the notification of the projects selected in December. Each time, the calendar was discussed. The various information provided within the framework of the inter-cabinets working group has also been reported in the meeting reports to the members, as always. There was no specific communication to hospitals, be they Brussels, Walloon or Flemish. The call for projects was not specifically intended for hospitals but for all healthcare providers. Each project introduced had to involve both providers and at least one application provider. Many applications were submitted by actors, including Walloon actors, and were not linked to a particular hospital. A total of 97 applications were submitted and 24 projects were selected. The proportion of French- and Dutch-speaking projects is approximately 70/30, i.e. 30% French-speaking and 70% Dutch-speaking, both in terms of the applications submitted and in terms of the projects selected. We are currently drafting each contract based on its project after which it can be launched. The conclusions are expected at the end of 2017. The same Dutch/French language distribution key was observed for the introduced projects as for the selected projects. Together with all the members, we have selected quality and diversity among the conditions. I do not know why so many meetings have been necessary. There's been it every month. I was told that I had not warned the Francophones. It is always the same way of working with the meetings of the working group and, each time, the notifications are made and transmitted to each individual. It's not because of that. I don't know if it's another mechanism. Before starting the pilot project, the method was studied and attempted to determine how to work together to ensure that everyone was involved. For me, it's a mystery. Francophones were involved at all times. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u130	Minister, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u131	I join these thanks for a clear, precise and detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u132	Mr President, Madam Minister, your intention is to improve the quality of care and to rely on the "volume" effect for certain specialties. However, in less densely populated areas, a health care service must be provided. This is the basis of the Vivalia 2025 project in the province of Luxembourg. Minister, in order to properly profile the model, can you succinctly give us your vision of the minimum base to be achieved on site? Is a high-level hospital, with the exception of specialities reserved for one or two sites in Belgium, compatible with your vision of the evolution of the hospital landscape? If so, to what extent?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u133	Minister, I would ask you to accept our apologies because our method of work is somewhat disjointed and it is not easy to follow. In addition, I can easily understand that it is more difficult to answer, when several questions are joined and only one member is present to ask his or her question. However, this makes it possible to move forward. The absent people lose their turn. If we do not proceed in this way, we will still be criticized for not making progress on the issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u134	However, when there are so many questions on a subject, it means that there are things to be clarified. I'm going to do it for Mr. Piedboeuf, who is the only one present. Mr Piedboeuf, as you know, hospital reform is one of the main projects on which we will soon be communicating. Any change causes some reluctance. This also applies to the world of hospitals. However, I have chosen to pursue a policy that allows me to keep Belgian health care at a high level, or even to improve its quality, and which, in addition, allows us to prepare our health care and the hospital landscape for demographic and medico-technical changes. This important reform is taking place within the limits of the current budgetary possibilities. Our health care needs to remain affordable in the future, both for public authorities and for patients. Many things have changed in terms of care, but also in our society and in many areas. Our vision of quality has been reviewed following numerous international and Belgian studies conducted by KCE, among others, which show that the quality of hospital care is largely determined by medical expertise. Possibly within a multidisciplinary team, this expertise is mainly necessary in complex cases and for less frequent pathologies, but it is also vital, in the literal sense, to be able to adequately intervene in cases of complication during an intervention in case of common pathology. Caregivers can only acquire and maintain this expertise by seeing enough patients. The accessibility of care goes far beyond the distance to a hospital. Some are concerned that in the future patients may need to move a little further to receive adequate care. But let's be honest, our broad road infrastructure makes proximity to care a relative concept. I often say that we are not in Canada here. Travel times in metropolitan areas are at times much more problematic than in rural areas. Moreover, proximity to care is not always synonymous with quality of care. Scandinavian countries, for example, have a high-performance health-care system accessible to all inhabitants, including those from low-density areas, but without deploying all medical care and hospital care in each of the remote areas. When I visited Denmark, I found that before their reform, which took them twenty years, they also had small hospitals on their small islands. Now, their care has improved and is of better quality. Their infrastructure includes, for example, helicopters, given the peculiarity of their territory. We organize ourselves so that the patient can be seen by a doctor anywhere and at any time and, if necessary, receive first aid and then, if necessary, continue treatment elsewhere, especially where the required expertise, technology and devices are available. This organization must provide for the availability of physicians and mobile emergency and resuscitation services (SMUR), seven days a week, 24 hours a day, and not necessarily in a specialized emergency department within the hospital. There are also rules on SMURs and legislation guarantees sufficient coverage of the territory. The allocation of limited public resources must be much more effective. We will not be able to do this by organizing many day-to-day, seven-day-a-seven day-to-day duty stations, for example for maternity wards that have less than one delivery per 24 hours and services that have too little activity. This implies the inefficient use of staff and resources, but also the fact that there is a high probability that, as providers do not have sufficient opportunities to acquire or preserve expertise, the quality is insufficient. This is not only true for delivery rooms. The effectiveness and quality of care also go hand in hand with nursing units. I'm still taking the example of maternity. In Belgium, maternity leave has an occupancy rate of less than 50%. A reduction in the number of maternity wards, while increasing the occupancy rate of beds, will be beneficial for the quality of care for the mother and her baby, as well as for the satisfaction of nurses and midwives. For, even for a limited number of patients in a small maternity ward, it is necessary to continue to ensure permanence, with a much smaller team. It is therefore useful to concentrate childbirth in a limited number of maternity wards. It goes without saying that this leads to problems related to the transition and that transitional measures should therefore be provided to accompany this change. How will we proceed in practice to implement hospital reforms? As I mentioned in this committee last September, the strategic cell has had a regular consultation with a representative of doctors, the hospital domes - you know that there are several in Wallonia - and the mutualities, in addition to regular bilateral discussions with the various stakeholders. In addition, we submit our plans to the federated entities within the Interministerial Public Health Committee and, in the spirit of the 2015 Joint Declaration, we hope to achieve a common vision. Finally, with regard to the pilot projects on short-term hospital deliveries, we selected seven pilot projects last year so that they could carry out their plan. The project partners started their work last summer and/or September. We are waiting for their first interim evaluation a year later and are therefore not yet in a position to provide you with a report on this matter. We'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u135	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. With regard to the mobility that you mentioned at the beginning of the answer, it goes without saying that it will also have to be taken into account with regard to infrastructure, in particular rail, in order also to allow the possible movement of patients by train.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u136	Minister, December 31, 2017 should mark the end of an era, with the cessation of any form of prescription written in paper format. The delivery of digital documents, known as Recip-e, should take over from the offices, on the basis of medical records previously compiled using the computer tool. Despite the value of adapting the health care system to the latest technologies, improving the effectiveness of the measures taken for the benefit of the community and increasing the safety and clarity of the content of the prescriptions, one cannot remain insensitive to certain criticisms made by professionals. In this regard, I was able to read several testimonies of these. I would like to quote one of them who was published in the press: "How can I imagine that a 60 - year - old general practitioner, approaching the end of his career, will begin to encode his thousands of files in software to still have the right to prescribe? Informatizing its files is of no interest and a heavy burden. I want to stay in control of the choice of my tools. I already have a medical case that exceeds 12 kilos. I don't see myself deploying a mobile phone, a digital printer, capturing a wifi that everyone forgot the code or an unlikely 3G in some areas, to finally print a document that took me less than two minutes by hand previously." I made it clear, Madam Minister, that these were quotations that had been published as they were in the press. It is obviously important to be able to correct this. It is clear that the reforms promoted by the federal government are moving in the right direction. They will save time, money and, above all, the performance of the general framework. The question of whether transitional measures are appropriate for the new scheme under consideration may arise, particularly in the case of doctors who are not technophiles at all, particularly in the category of older professionals. Minister, how do you view the fears that have been expressed by medical professionals? I've quoted a few that may be smiling, but there are others that are more nuanced. Have you had the opportunity to meet with industry representatives on this topic? What messages did you send them about this? Finally, what measures are planned to facilitate, under the best conditions, the change of regime of these requirements? Are transitional provisions currently under consideration or already provided for by your services? We would like to hear from you on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u137	I will not repeat what Mr Calomne said. Minister, I will only take over some professional concerns. It happens that I was at the generalist's house yesterday morning for a muscle tear. He just started his electronic prescriptions and said how difficult it was in rural areas because of a bad connection. Like Mr Calomne, I wonder if there are any transitional arrangements to help people who are more difficult to use the computer tool or who are experiencing connection problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u138	In order to ensure that the electronic prescription meets the criteria of the healthcare providers concerned, the project was subcontracted by INAMI to ASBL Recip-e, an ASBL created and managed by the prescribers and deliverers. Here too, prescribers are already involved. The electronic prescription has been available since 2012 and is being rolled out gradually. The circuit was modified on January 1, 2017, but the requirement is not yet mandatory. The modification of the circuit implies that in the case of an electronic prescription, the issued document is no longer a requirement. It takes the prescribed drugs well so that pharmacists are obliged to go for the electronic prescription. This is not really a problem, since now 95% of pharmacists are already using Recip-e. The obligation to work by electronic prescription is commented a lot at the moment, with lots of cartoons. It will come into force on January 1, 2018. Consideration is being given to whether or not new transitional measures should be added. We take into account the comments that have already been made, for example on the 12 kilos computer. Moreover, the transitional period will last five years, which is not nothing. We have found problems and we have already taken two steps. First of all, the ASBL Recip-e hired a crisis manager, who must take care of the problems before the end of April. It is true that this ASBL has had young people's diseases. We do not allow this, because we paid for an effective product, which they promised us. Secondly, we have decided to add an additional period of six months. For the ASBL Recip-e, this means an additional six months, so until July 1, 2017, during which time we can check if people are using the Recip-e system. You know that INAMI finances training for an annual budget of EUR 1 million, while the organisation of courses for healthcare providers is a Community competence. At the Interdepartmental Conference, we had a discussion about which courses were being filled on the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking side.I replied that for me it was important for our system and that the burden would be charged to my budget. The discussions revolved around counting Francophones and Dutch speakers, who will pay what etc. I immediately said that I was going to take the budget in my department because it doesn't matter to me whether there are more or less languages. When this is compulsory on 1 January, I also want all the problems to be solved and there is no uncertainty at that time. In February, more than nine thousand doctors sent 2,560 million Recip-e prescriptions, which is a lot for a month. Looks like it's the same for dentists. It should be noted that only 1,700 of them sent 14,000 prescriptions. In addition, almost 500 pharmacists withdrew 2,100,000 Recip-e. Growth is exponential. Now you say that there are Internet problems in some areas. I need to find out. This is not the case in Brussels or Flanders. Indeed, I live in a small town. There's 4G everywhere. However, this matter falls within the competence of the Communities. In any case, having the Internet is, in my opinion, all the more important as soon as everything will be computerized. By doing so, people who will not be able to access it easily will find themselves isolated. My little niece is a student. She has to send her homework to the teachers. The agenda changes several times a day. Students cannot be sent to a better located municipality to have a connection. I shall speak to the competent minister of your Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u139	Madam Minister, thank you for the various answers you have given us. I have taken note of your openness to the question of transitional measures and your wish to include, as far as possible, the various comments that have been made by health professionals concerned about some of these issues. I have also heard that you want all the problems to be solved at the time when the scheme is made compulsory. It is important to report and communicate it clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u140	Madam Minister, I would like to point out, although I know that it is not you who depend on it, that in some more hilly areas – Flanders is more flat – and especially in the cross-border regions – we have in my entity a common border of 23 km with France – connections do not establish immediately. It's more complicated. I just wanted to draw your attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u141	Madam Minister, as part of your call for projects, Vivalia had entered into a model of emergency medical aid organization called "proxi-emergency" aimed at providing AMU coverage in rural areas that puts all patients, regardless of their place of residence, in the situation of being rescued with a 15-minute IML. Could you tell me what is the status of this issue and, in general, what is your vision, in view of the reform of the hospital landscape, which you mentioned earlier, and which involves bringing patients to the most appropriate places to be treated? What is your vision of the organisation of emergencies, particularly in rural areas. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u142	I have the answer in Dutch. I'll make the effort, Mr. Piedboeuf. This concerns urgent aid in your region. A plan for emergency aid has been developed. There will also be reform in this urgent aid. There is a part of the ambulances that are not in the public services, and that have a contract with us, while the public services, for historical reasons, have not done this. The provincial emergency aid commissions have, in their organizational tasks, control over the services with which there is no contract. Here too, they must meet quality requirements. Will services and budgetary resources be reorganized? Yes. Today, there are 426 ambulances available. Some of them are very much in demand, while others are very few. In some centres with four ambulances, the fourth is almost never used. Simulations have been made and it appears that at least 350 ambulances are required in our territory to meet the level service, i.e. an efficient territorial distribution and arrival with the patient within fifteen minutes. This was really an exercise on efficiency. To date, no level service has been imposed in emergency aid. But 84% of interventions are done in less than 15 minutes. I would like to be able to increase that percentage. This is a big file, which I share with the Minister of the Interior. There are many ambulance services. Exercise also requires resources. We'll introduce this in a while. We still have to think with the other ministers. Then we'll ask to inject resources. I believe that our country needs programming that eliminates grey areas where ambulances are insufficient. This was done through cooperation between experienced services and our administration, including all ambulance groups and some firefighters. When they demonstrated last week, it's because they know we have our plan and we also need resources. To give me their support, they demonstrated with thirty ambulances in front of my door. They were very nice. I did interviews with their gyrophars, etc. and they are pleased with the development of this plan. They didn't start making any noise or I couldn't have given an interview. It is very important also for the mayors, for everyone, including us, that there be this time of less than fifteen minutes because otherwise, you know, it's frustrating. We also worked on the cost to patients because it's important too. When the ambulance has to come too far, the cost to the patient is much higher. When the patient has to pay 50%, it can now really vary depending on the ambulance they send home. Here too, we worked on this model to have an always identical price.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u143	From the moment your goal is the same as ours, I'm not so worried. The reason I was talking about Vivalia's Proxi-Emergency file is that, as we have the same concerns, with the desire not to have too much spending, we had presented a file that could be a pilot file. I have the feeling that the file that we have prepared will help in the realization of your solution and so I am happy. I look forward to your draft plan for the organization of urgent medical assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u144	Mr President, Madam Minister, the knowledge of the KCE report on the reform of governance for collaborations between hospitals calls for reflection on the link between the KCE recommendations and Walloon legislation on intercommunals when - as is the case in Luxembourg - the board of directors only understands – how to speak! - 30 political agents, no doctors and no experts outside the management staff. Do you think this current mode needs to evolve to meet the proposed networking objective? Do you think that it can remain the same while being complemented by a umbrella structure comprising, within the framework of the network, a steering committee combining politicians and doctors from the various institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u145	First of all, I do not have an answer to this question, for two reasons. The first is that this is a rather political issue. The second is that my services have not been able to answer the questions raised beyond item 70 of our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u146	I therefore propose to turn this question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u147	Your vous and remerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u148	It is therefore unnecessary to go beyond this agenda item. Mr. Frédéric having arrived, we come back to point 40.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u149	Mr. President, Madam Minister, I apologize for my delay. I was in Committee on Terrorist Attacks, but I wanted to come here to greet you. Approximately 200,000 Belgians suffer from atrial fibrillation that can lead to strokes causing death or paralysis. To avoid these strokes, anticoagulants are prescribed. Since 2012, new oral anticoagulants, NOACs, have been used for this condition. These new anticoagulants (Eliquis, Pradaxa, Xarelto, Lixiana) are easier to take for the patient as the dose is the same for all. Patients treated with anticoagulants of the previous generation, such as Sintrom, Marevan and Marcoumar, had to take regular blood samples to determine the correct dose. This necessitates a high cost of biological examinations and a significant number of physician consultations. According to a recent KCE report, NOACs have two key problems. On the one hand, their reduced duration of action, which involves a precise take, adjusted in hours where the old molecules covered the patient in days. On the other hand, their price: they cost ten times more than the old molecules. They would represent an additional annual cost of around EUR 100 million for our health insurance. According to KCE, despite this difference in price, the calculation of the cost for the rest of the patient's life is not much higher. The Centre of Expertise also raises doubts about the probity of certain international recommendations in this context. However, NOACs would be a good choice for patients who do not function properly with old-generation anticoagulants or for those who have problems with regular blood tests, but provided they receive them at an appropriate dose and scrupulously observe their daily or biquotidal intakes. On the basis of this finding, the KCE considers that a renegotiation of the price of NOACs is necessary. So my questions are as follows. Minister, do you intend to begin discussions for a renegotiation of the NOAC award as recommended by the KCE? If these negotiations do not succeed, do you intend to restrict or restrict the use of these new anticoagulants? Again with direct consequences for patients who should take this specific treatment. Do you also feel that the probity of certain international recommendations in this area should be questioned while you also use certain international recommendations to make decisions on other important issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u150	Frédéric, NOACs, new anticoagulants are a new class of oral anticoagulants. We know their business names. You mentioned some of them. They are an alternative to standard vitamin K antagonist treatments. Their efficacy is comparable to, or slightly higher than, anti-vitamin K. Unlike K-vitamins, NOACs do not require regular blood intake to find the right dose. So there is an important practical benefit for the patient. Also for INAMI, on laboratory tests. Doctors sometimes prescribe lower doses of NOACs than those studied, especially in elderly patients and those whose kidneys do not function well, thereby reducing the risk of bleeding. The problem is that the effectiveness of these lower doses is not proven, which can expose patients to complications. This brings us to the price of NOACs. The cost for INAMI is 2.55 euros per patient per day. This cost is based on the official NOAC price. The cost of AVKs is significantly lower: €0.32 per patient per day plus the cost of laboratory tests and blood tests; costs vary from patient to patient, depending on the number of samples, i.e. €0.57 per day based on a frequency of one check per month. The cost of AVKs is therefore EUR 0.89 per month. It is important to note that the official price of NOACs does not correspond to the actual price paid by social security. The firms grant discounts to INAMI, the importance of which varies according to turnover. Their level is strictly confidential. The procedures for concluding such a contract already provide for revisions, at the end of the contract, for each molecule concerned. Given this, there is no reason to renegotiate the price of NOACs in their entirety. The KCE report will be submitted to the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products. In order for patients to take drugs as prescribed, we also discussed measures towards pharmacists. Today we presented the pact we have entered into with them. There will be a reference pharmacist, the huisapotheker, to whom we will give the opportunity to give his opinion to the patient and to guide the patient in his treatment, in a kind of therapeutic fidelity. Integrated collaboration among care providers is therefore essential to ensure quality of care and therapeutic compliance. I think there's a big difference in treatment quality for the patient, but it's not up to me to decide. The report will be submitted to the Independent Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products. We will see what their decision will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u151	I thank the minister for her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic620x.u152	Joined Questions No 15882 by Mrs Catherine Fonck, No 17006 by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and No 17027 and No 17028 by Mr André Frédéric are postponed.
