ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic723x.u1	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, I read in an article in Le Soir of 15 July that the recent OSPAR meeting raised huge questions about the continued increase in pollution in the seas and, more specifically, in our own North Sea. Our sea is subject to high pressure due to our high population, on the one hand, and our high degree of industrialization, on the other. Not only is our sea heavily polluted, our beaches are not clean at all. It mainly concerns the massive presence of plastic and styrofoam, both in the water and on the beach. For example, 1 kg of sand would contain no less than 150 pieces of plastic. This has serious consequences for human health and the environment and requires action. Mr Secretary of State, firstly, what measures will you take to tackle this pressing problem of our North Sea, both in the sea and on our beaches? Secondly, is there a plan of action already in place? Can you explain this and give us the timing of actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic723x.u2	Madam President, I agree with my colleague. In 2050 there will be more plastic in the sea than fish. Especially the problem of the smaller particles, the so-called microplastics, in many products that we use daily, are not at all as innocent as they seem. I was very pleased to hear that at the beginning of September you made international commitments in Lisbon, with 49 other North Sea ministers or their representatives. Last year, in committee, you said that the fight against marine waste would be an important priority for you. That's why I'm asking you the following questions. What actions and initiatives have you already taken to reduce the amount of plastic in the seas? What actions and initiatives will you take, whether or not in cooperation with your colleagues from the Regions? How much support will the project Fishing For Litter receive this year? How much support will be foreseen in 2018 and 2019? Can we have access to the national action plan to combat marine waste? Have you started that plan yet? What international partnerships are there? Did you bring good practices from other countries, things you picked up in Lisbon? If so, which one? Will you and your colleagues from the government take initiatives to reduce the amount of microplastics in products or, better still, ban them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic723x.u3	Madam President, it is true that I have made the fight against marine waste one of the priorities in my policy, as reflected in my policy paper. You all know that waste comes into the North Sea in different ways. Activities are carried out at sea, such as maritime transport, fisheries, aquaculture and offshore projects. In addition, litter comes from land via the sewers, through water treatment plants and simply via the wind, because people still throw dirt on the streets that eventually ends up in the sea. I also mention beach waste, the waste associated with fireworks festivals and sports activities, because there are so many activities taking place, and each of these activities also has an impact on what ends up in our North Sea. On top of that, we manage only a very small part of the sea and own it as Belgium. However, the problem is linked internationally. Everything that happens in the world comes by our door for a piece. I am convinced that marine waste absolutely requires a specific approach. We have tried to take initiatives on several fronts. We are indeed internationally active. We are trying to make alliances and learn from what is happening in other countries, although I must say that at many of these international conferences I am mostly addressed to our initiatives, asking what we are doing, because we are the frontrunner in many areas in this area. I really advocate a global approach that must be cross-level and multidimensional. Over the last few months, I have revived a number of initiatives myself, and I have also taken new initiatives. The most striking thing is the project Fishing For Litter, which we have restarted. In 2017, EUR 6 000 will be made available for this purpose. Bags are made available, everything is collected and processed. A report is also provided for, so that we can assess the impact. In 2018, the budget would be increased to EUR 8 000. Depending on the number of users, we can continue to increase the amount systematically. This is a system in which the services and fishermen get big pockets, to bring the waste they find or produce to land and not dump it in the sea. In recent months, we have also worked very hard to raise awareness. The federal truck has driven off the coast again over the past summer, to raise awareness among people, including young people. In 2017, it was linked to the fact that people could participate in a beach clean-up, which has had a lot of impact. More than 1 000 people were reached with this initiative. It is also important to bring young people in contact with the direct impact of pollution on our beaches. Training at the Maritime Institute in Ostend has also been proposed to teach young fishermen from the outset to deal with the maritime environment in a worrying way and to teach them how to contribute to the fight against waste. A national working group on marine litter has also been set up by the Marine Environment Department of the FPS Public Health, which, together with the Regions, the Province and the coastal mayors, will examine what can be done together to get the marine waste. For me, too, it is important that experts and scientists have actively contributed during discussions in order to make evidence-based proposals. Moreover, we are already looking very closely at compliance with the environmental permit procedure applicable to all activities in the North Sea. As you have already mentioned, we are also taking action at international, European level and we are even more in favour of it. There was the Oceans Meeting in Lisbon. Prior to that, Minister Reynders went to the United Nations to sign a number of commitments, including at international level, which are very closely linked to the health of our oceans. There is, even today, an action plan at European level, for example, around the circular economy, including a plastics strategy. There is a European framework directive on Marine Strategy, on which we are cooperating. There is a European Water Framework Directive, in which Belgium will also follow the relevant European directives, to purify microplastics from water. At regional level, Belgium is a member of the OSPAR Committee, which you also spoke of. We will observe the Vice-Presidentship of that committee in 2017 and in 2018, which again proves that we also play a very active role in this area. We also participate in the Intersessional Correspondence Group Marine Litter and the Regional Action Plan Marine Litter. We will therefore remain active in this area and support OSPAR with our knowledge and with our initiatives. As you can see, we do a lot of different things. We are active both locally and regionally, federally and internationally. We try to pass on the good practices that we have developed ourselves. For example, in Lisbon, we discussed with several people how renovation can play a role. I have had an informal meeting with Commissioner Moedas to see how we can work together. Together with Minister Marghem, we are also taking initiatives to address the problem of microplastics at source. We are looking at how we can find appropriate coordination across the boundaries of regional and federal competences to tackle macro-, micro- and nanoplastics at source. This will also be an element of the action plan, which we are finalising. I have talked about this many times, and it is indeed time for the action plan on plastic to be delivered. I hope to finalise it in the coming weeks, so that the government finally has an action plan and can work with the various stakeholders involved in its implementation. That scientifically based plan can make an effective difference in the field. I believe that I have answered most of your questions. If there are any specific things you'd like to know about, I'd be happy to hear about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic723x.u4	Thank you very much, Mr De Backer. You have listed a number of initiatives which we welcome. I hear a lot about the sea and less about the beach. I may be wrong, but maybe the beach is part of it? That's a first extra question. Will there also be measurements so that we can check whether all these initiatives lead to improvement? I hear the action plan on plastic is in preparation. Can you give us the timing of that? When will that be completed? Is that only made in Belgium? Plastic is of course everywhere in the sea and the sea does not stop at the border of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic723x.u5	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. I just wonder if you can provide us with the action plan to combat marine waste. I didn't find it. I also agree with my colleague's question. The plastic action plan is very interesting. When that is at our disposal, we are happy to have it. Finally, you do a lot of sensitisation and you consult with all levels. You are always talking about sensitizing to reduce waste, but the question is whether you should not go any further and also, together with your colleague Marghem, impose prohibitive measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic723x.u6	For the sake of clarity, the Marine Waste Action Plan and the Plastic Action Plan are the same, that is one plan. It's not there yet, because it's not finished yet. We are now finalising it, also in consultation with a number of scientists and experts, so that the plan on the basis of the list also makes an effective difference on the ground. Internationally, they also look at this. We have made international agreements; I refer, for example, to the signing by Minister Reynders, in consultation with me, at the United Nations of a number of action points. We are participating in its implementation and the action plan is also included in those United Nations action points. I'm talking about the global campaign on marine litter The Clean Seas, which was launched a few weeks ago and lasts for five years. As the action plan fits in, we will therefore be able to translate into reality the objectives that we have endorsed there. Of course, the action plan also requires coordination. Your comment is justified. Why don't I talk about beaches? That is because the beaches are a competence of either local or regional authorities. We are, of course, trying to consult. That is why, in the working group that prepared the action plan, I have also consulted coastal mayors and regional authorities very often to ensure that everyone is on the same page and that their expertise and knowledge can be taken into account in drawing up the action plan. We try to consult as widely as possible to implement this together with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic723x.u7	What timing has been set for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic723x.u8	I intend to present this to the government in the coming weeks. Then, of course, there will also be a debate here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic723x.u9	Madam President, Secretary of State, you know that past overfishing, sand extraction and disruptive fishing techniques have led to a reduction in biodiversity in our North Sea. In your policy paper last year, you wrote: "When implementing the various additional measures under the first management period 2016-2021, actions on the conservation and recovery of gravel beds will start in 2017. This aims to increase the presence of the specific habitat, characterised by a high variety of species, in the Belgian part of the North Sea." Oysters and mussels, among others, like to attach themselves to the gravel beds in our North Sea and the gravel banks are also indispensable for the survival of herring. Due to sand extraction and soil-distorting fishing techniques in the North Sea, huge dust clouds are created that descend on the endangered oyster banks. Fortunately, you have already taken initiatives to better protect these valuable areas, but foreign fishermen are threatening to eat, or should I say sand in the water. When discussing your policy paper, you said that negotiations on fisheries measures would continue in 2017 in close consultation with our neighbouring countries and the European Commission. These negotiations should be concluded by the end of this year. Firstly, what is the state of the negotiations with the European Commission? Secondly, what are the other countries' attitudes to sand extraction and fishing techniques? Thirdly, will the measures you are proposing be followed by other Member States or the European Commission? Fourthly, what is the state of recovery of the gravel banks in the North Sea? Are they moving forward or backwards? Fifthly, are there scientific research projects to map the biodiversity levels of gravel banks and oyster beds?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic723x.u10	Madam President, I can be quite clear about the state of play with regard to the negotiations with the European Commission. We have been negotiating for six months with the Netherlands, France, Germany, the United Kingdom and Denmark. We then submitted a joint recommendation to the European Commission on 28 February. It normally has three months to turn that into a delegated act, but unfortunately that period has been exceeded. The last message I received from the European Commission is that we would normally be given a ruling on the delegated act by the end of September. But the contact remains close, of course. With regard to the attitude of other countries to sand extraction and fishing techniques, I can say the following. The concessions we give for sand extraction are a national competence. If you would like to know the international context, I would like to refer you to Minister Kris Peeters, who has competence in the matter of sand mining. As far as fisheries are concerned, I believe that in each country there is the same struggle and debate between the environment and fisheries. We also need to look at which techniques, for example, can be used. Is there much or little ground-rotation involved? What's the soil damage? In what way can that be limited? All these discussions play out in every country, I think. This is, of course, also taken into account in discussions at European level. Will the European Commission follow the Belgian measures? I suppose so. Since we have managed to reach an agreement with all the Member States, I suspect that the European Commission will take a positive view on this. Of course, she reserves the right not to. I hope and I think so, but of course I cannot give 100 % of certainty. In connection with the restoration of the gravel banks, we are currently conducting a test to restore one hectare of gravel bed within protection zone 3 of the marine spatial plan. This is part of a number of measures we are taking in the framework of the programme for Belgian marine waters, which runs until 2020, to see how we can do some restoration there. It's in this one about covering with hard substrates. We have already completed a preliminary study. A call for tender for the test is now in progress and the test is scheduled for the beginning of next year. Of course, the implementation of the test also depends on other restrictive measures, which also apply in the marine spatial plan. In relation to scientific research projects, there is, of course, the mandatory monitoring and reporting under the Marine Strategy and Natura 2000 framework directive. In 2008 a specific investigation was also carried out into two remaining gravel beds on the Hinderbank. Then juvenile oysters were established in small numbers, so there came back for a bit of life again. This also indicates the presence of adult oysters, but that was not very clear at the time, because at the moment no adult specimens are actually observed. Because of the habitat type 1170, so the two types of reefs that occur in the Belgian North Sea, there is of course that the gravel beds have largely disappeared. That is the observation that has been made there. An exception to this were two remaining zones near the Hinderbanken which showed a richer fauna. Those are the conclusions of the last study I found. That is constantly monitored and monitored. However, the latest in-depth scientific study dates back to 2008.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic723x.u11	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive and clear answer. I can only express the hope that your assumption that the European Commission will follow will be fulfilled. We will find out at the end of September.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic723x.u12	Mrs Dumery was not present for her question No 19726 and she had not left a message. The rule says we're scratching the question.
