ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 22202 converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 22336 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has been withdrawn. Mr Calomne is not here to put his question. 22374.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u2	Mr President, Minister, the incidents that took place last week at the Fedasil centre in Jodoigne are scandalous. On Wednesday, 6 December, at dawn, some 20 federal police officers were mobilized to evict a Chechen family from the Fedasil centre in Jodoigne. The violence deployed by your agents during this attempt was such that the employees of the centre and the local police officers present, and even the mayor acting as the commune of Jodoigne, were truly shocked. Mr Minister, this is a family with eight children, who did not dispute the need to leave the territory because it fell under the Dublin procedure. They knew that in the long run they would have to go back to Poland, since that was where they had started the asylum procedure. Unfortunately, this Wednesday, a family member was missing, a girl who was outside the centre. The family didn't want to be separated. We can understand the reaction of the father, who was worried. It would have been enough to wait for the girl to come back. I think the return could have been done under correct conditions. What about the impact of all this on family members? I am thinking particularly of the children who have witnessed it. In fact, one of the girls had a malaise in the presence of the police forces. I recall that this family is perfectly integrated into the local social fabric and apparently never posed a problem during its stay at the Fedasil centre in Jodoigne. In addition to the use of violence that has appeared to be disproportionate to other members of the police force (I am thinking in particular of local police officers in Jodoigne), all the circumstances of this abortive deportation attempt seriously question the practices of the federal police in the broader context of the return policy. Minister, what are the reasons for considering the deployment of such a police presence in the context of this deportation attempt? I recall that some 20 federal police officers have come forward to implement this expulsion. As part of this operation, who was in charge of operational decisions? Was it a federal police officer or the officer of the Office of Foreigners who was also present at the scene? Who made the decision on the use of force in this expulsion attempt? What special measures have been taken to take into account the presence of seven out of the eight children in this family? Who made the decision to separate the mother from the rest of the family with a view to waiting for the last child to return? I would remind you that this was a 14-year-old girl who spent the previous night with a friend of hers. Has anyone raised in this decision the manifest infringement that this practice represents with respect to Article 8 of the ECHR? If not, how was the failure to respect such a fundamental right not pointed out by any of the speakers? The municipal authorities of Jodoigne have announced their willingness to bring a complaint to Committee P regarding these events. What other disciplinary measures will be taken against those involved in this operation? Beyond these issues specifically related to the attempted expulsion of 6 December, this is not the first time that law enforcement behaviour in the context of return policy has been pointed out. We remember in particular that of the accompanying agents in the context of so-called accompanied returns raised in the press several months ago. It is therefore important for us to have a more complete and structural view of the situation. What is the regulatory framework for police operations related to return policy? Under what circumstances is the federal police called upon to intervene in the expulsions? What measures of protection for children are provided for in the expulsion of families? To what extent is the use of force or coercion permitted and within what limits? Which supervisory authorities are competent to supervise the action of the Federal Police in such operations? What are the possibilities for re-elected persons to be assisted by a lawyer or counsel in the deportation proceedings? What are the possibilities for complaints from persons who are victims of police violence in the context of an expulsion that has been completed? How many similar cases do you know about here?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u3	Mr. Crusnière, the federal police were present with a police commissioner, 12 escorts, two bus drivers and two members of DFOT (social assistants). A doctor was also present. A member of the Office of Foreigners was present as an administrative authority, as well as two members of the General Inspectorate of Police Services, as observers. The scheme takes into account the fact that 10 persons were to be cared for. Two police officers per adult are provided for ex officio. Two Jodoigne police teams were present but did not enter the centre. In his report, the head of the Office of Foreigners present during the operation raised the question of what would have happened in the event of riots among the inhabitants of the centre. There were many watching, and one of them was walking with a knife. The operational arrangements put in place must take into account the inherent hazards of this type of mission. No one knows how the other inhabitants of a centre will react. The representative of the Office of Foreigners present on the spot is responsible for the administrative aspects of the measure. The decision to leave the mother in the centre pending the reappearance of the missing girl rests with the Agency. The federal police deal with the purely operational aspect. In this case, members of the Zaventem aviation police are responsible for these missions. This unit is the only one with a bus equipped for this type of mission. They are trained to carry them out and perform their task with all the necessary professionalism. The use of force is within the jurisdiction of the officer present. It was necessary from the moment the father of the children rebelled to learn that the mother had to stay. The father was handcuffed with the Quick Release and he had to be given Velcros in his knees and ankles because he was kicking. On the bus, he tried to hit his head against metal parts. He was given a padded helmet to avoid injury. As a result, federal police officers used coercion to control the father of the family and to prevent him from injuring himself. For your information, I would like to point out that, in carrying out these missions, federal police personnel are not armed. The Foreign Office decided that the seven children present would leave with the father and that the mother would stay there pending the return of the missing girl. The high number of children was taken into account in the development of the mission. The presence of social workers allows for the care of families. Tablets were available for children on the bus. A lunch was also planned and it was taken in Melsbroek. The Foreign Office made this decision, the idea being to allow the mother to recover the daughter and then to join the rest of the family. All family members had to be dismissed, as provided for in the Dublin agreements. The mission could not be completed due to the absence of the girl. Finally, the family was welcomed to Petit-Château. It appears from the report of the member of the Office of Foreigners present that throughout the discussions in Jodoigne, the children were in contact via Facebook with the missing girl. It appears from the same report that upon arrival at Petit-Château, the oldest of the children had a telephone contact with a person to tell him that everything had gone well and that the family had a new place of stay. According to the same report, the representative of the Office of Foreigners had the impression that everything had been organized from the start to make the mission abort. I take note of the intention of the municipal authorities of Jodoigne to refer this event to Committee P. However, I can inform you that the General Inspectorate of Police Services was present during the operation and that it will prepare a report. From the first elements set out by the members of the AIG present during the inquiry, everything took place according to the rules. I would like to make it clear that the AIG is an internal body within the police and that Committee P is the body you want to refer to. With regard to the removal of aliens, I refer you to the ministerial circular of 19 July 2006, which regulates the various aspects of removal missions. Many Belgian and international provisions regulate this matter, such as the Law of 15 December 1980, the Royal Decree of 8 October 1981, the Law on the Police Function and the European Treaty of 4 November 1950. I am sure you know these different provisions. I inform you that the use of coercion is regulated by the Law on the Police Function in its article 37. In addition, a ministerial circular of 19 July 2006 deals with the use of coercion in the context of removal missions. Specific equipment is used and its operational use is previously subject to a procedure internal to the Federal Police, as well as to the consent of the Minister of the Interior. No other restraint equipment may be used. I recall here that the federal police personnel carrying out these missions are not armed. With regard to children, the federal police engaged members of DFOT in such operations. In particular, social workers will take care of the family and especially the children, as in the present case. Tablets were available on the bus to entertain them. A lunch was planned for the family. The waiting room in Melsbroek has a television that broadcasts children's channels. The General Inspectorate of Police Services has been specifically designated to monitor these missions. Throughout the administrative process, individuals may be assisted by a lawyer to inform them as best they can of the opportunities available to them depending on their situation. At the time of execution of the expulsion order, the procedure does not provide for the presence of a lawyer. Finally, nothing prevents anyone who considers it necessary to file a complaint with a police service in a foreign country against a Belgian police service. It may also be lodged with the AIG or the Committee P. As has already happened in the past, a lawyer may lodge a complaint for the clients whose files he took over while they were in Belgian territory, even if they are no longer in Belgium at the time of filing the complaint. Finally, I have not been aware of similar incidents in the past when carrying out such missions. This type of mission is monitored by the General Inspectorate of Police Services, which prepares a report after each mission. It goes without saying that if the General Inspectorate's report mentions, in this case, malfunctions or non-compliance with the procedures envisaged, the necessary adjustments will be made and, if necessary, an internal investigation will be initiated. But for this, we must wait for the official report of the AIG, which is currently being drafted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u4	Mr Minister, thank you for your concrete answer, which raises some questions for me. You say that two police officers are scheduled for each adult. In this case, there was a family of two adults with eight children. It is therefore surprising how many police officers are present. You have drawn up a list of all those present on this mission. I would also like to say a word about the father's reaction. One can humanly understand the reaction of this father who was confronted with great difficulties in Belgium and was separated from his wife and daughter. It is not only the staff of the Fedasil centre who were shocked by the method, it is also the local police of Jodoigne. I have contacts with them and many have given me their feelings. They were shocked by the violence that was used to address the problem, especially since, as I learned, it was a military plane that brought them back. So we weren't bound by a timing. Perhaps we could have shown a little more humanity and waited for the girl's return and sent the whole family away. Again, I feel that the family was well aware of the Dublin procedure and did not question it in any way. Unfortunately, this incident is only one more incident in the management of migration by this government, which is very regrettable. This raises questions about the orders given to our law enforcement agencies in this regard. Paradoxically, it also undermines the work of the collaborators of the Fedasil centres who are trying to build trust with asylum seekers. It takes time. They need to get to know each other. This type of operation, with the violence that has been exerted, endangers this whole relationship of trust, not only with the people concerned but also with all the asylum seekers in the centres, which is truly regrettable. I understand that a report from the AIG will be issued and that a request for an inquiry from Committee P will be expedited. I ask that Parliament be informed of this and that, if facts are established, exemplary sanctions be taken. I also call on the government to discuss with Parliament, with civil society, the modalities of accompanying families in the context of the removal procedure. I believe that these families are experiencing difficult times and deserve a little more humanity. And on the basis of the findings of the investigation and the reflection that I advocate, I call on the government to thoroughly review the procedures for the removal of foreigners in order to prevent this kind of event from happening again and to make the decisions of the government firm, but also humane in terms of asylum policy. For the moment, we are seeing a lot of firmness but little humanity. I ask you to establish more humanity. There are not only files behind all these asylum seekers, but above all human beings. I therefore call on this government to instil more humanity in the proceedings, and I propose that the law enforcement agencies show greater understanding in these difficult cases. I have tabled a motion that reflects the requests made here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u5	The Chair: In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière and Emir Kir read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, - recommends that the Government initiate a thorough investigation by the AIG services into the events at the FEDASIL centre in Jodoigne during the above-mentioned expulsion attempt in particular, but also into police practices in general in the context of removal policies; - recommends also to ensure that the acts in question do not remain without disciplinary sanctions; - decides to entrust the Committee P with an in-depth investigation on the same subject; - is concerned about the psychological and human support given both to the first victims, namely foreigners who have been the object of the attempted expulsion - in particular children present during the deployment of the violence in question - as well as the assistance offered to the workers of this FEDASIL centre in particular and to all employees of the reception network in general; - notes that the work of these collaborators, based on mutual trust and empathy towards the persons welcomed, is permanently undermined and made particularly difficult by behaviors of the nature described by the witnesses of the events in Jodoigne; - calls on the government, in cooperation with Parliament and civil society, to consider how families can be accompanied in removal procedures; - recommends, on the basis of the conclusions of these investigations and of this reflection, to review in depth the procedures for the removal of foreigners so that such events can no longer be repeated, thus making it possible to render the "human" dimension to the expression of the government "firm and human" regarding its asylum and migration policy." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Emir Kir and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, - advises the Government to have an in-depth investigation carried out by the AIG services in connection with events at the Fedasil Centre in Gelden during the above-mentioned attempt at removal in particular, but also in relation to police practices in the context of removal policy in general; - also recommends ensuring that disciplinary sanctions are imposed for the offences complained of; - decides to entrust a thorough examination of the same matter to the P Committee; - from her concern about the psychological mentoring of both the actual victims, i.e. the aliens who have been tried to be removed, in particular the children present in the assault charge, as the supervision of the employees of the Fedasil Centre concerned, in particular, and all staff of the reception network in general; - notes that the work of these staff, which is based on mutual trust and empathy with regard to the persons received, is being undermined for a long time and is extremely complicated by practices such as those described by those who witnessed the police action in Geldenaken; - invites the Government, together with Parliament and civil society organisations, to consider the arrangements for assisting families in an expulsion procedure; - recommends a thorough review of the procedures for the removal of aliens on the basis of the conclusions of those investigations and of that reflection, so that such events can no longer occur and thus give the government's humane asylum and migration policy a human dimension." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Rita Gantois. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Gantois. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u6	Deputy Prime Minister, according to an article from the Metrotime on 5 December, the city of Hasselt has, since that date, a new centre of expertise and information of borough (ARIEC) which carries out a pilot experience of administrative approach to organized crime. Depending on the model proposed by you, each AIREC will be composed of three persons: a coordinator, a lawyer and an information management specialist. This team is at the disposal of the mayors to supply them with information from the inspection and security services in specific files, and to assist them in setting up coordinated control actions in certain stores, establishments horeca, or even in the course of events. Could you give us the outline, modalities and administrative recommendations envisaged to combat organised crime effectively? Are you planning to extend this pilot experiment, which would last two years, to other cities in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u7	Mr President, Mr Kir, contrary to what you mentioned in your question, it is not the city of Hasselt that has a centre of knowledge and expertise in administrative approach (ARIEC) but the province of Limburg, even if it is located in Hasselt. In addition to the Limburg ARIEC, a pilot project is also planned in the provinces of Antwerp and Namur. This project is planned for a period of two years, followed by an evaluation. ARIEC will provide maximum support to local authorities and police areas in the district that are confronted with organised crime in their territory. The centre therefore acts as a supra-local reporting point and a centre of knowledge and expertise in administrative approaches. ARIEC provides support in the processing and coordination of individual cases that require an integrated approach to organised crime. In this regard, it is essential to bring together different actors around the table, such as the commune, the local police, the federal police, the inspection services, the public prosecutor's office or public and private partners. Within the limits of their autonomous competences, all stakeholders can then share information and determine together which intervention will have the best chance of success. What are ARIEC's tasks and missions? First, to raise awareness among local authorities and their partners and to create a foundation, e.g. through information sessions in municipalities or police areas, presentations at workshops, publications and others. Secondly, to facilitate the creation of the necessary structures (installation of a communal coordinator, local consultation, etc.) in the municipalities and areas concerned.), to bring in contact with relevant partners and to introduce methods such as the collection and exchange of information, the implementation of flex actions, the production of manuals and workflows, the guarantee of information, etc. Thirdly, to maintain the necessary contacts at the local, national and international levels with regard to the administrative approach. Their task is also to consolidate expertise and methodology, to transmit them to local authorities and to make recommendations on legislation and policy. The administrative approach is, in addition to the criminal approach, a crucial component in the fight against organised crime. These pilot projects must be able to help local authorities and other authorities define an integral approach to combating the various phenomena. Nevertheless, the municipalities can already take many steps, as evidenced by the study of the professor of Ruyver. This has resulted in the publication of a manual on the application of administrative rules which describes good practices already on the ground and thus provides local authorities with various tools in the fight against organised crime. The study is available in French and Dutch on the website: www.besafe.be. I can also point out that my administration is at your disposal if you wish, in your capacity as mayor, to examine in more detail the possibilities of applying administrative rules to combat the phenomena concerned. The fight against crime concerns us all and we therefore wish to give you maximum support at the federal level. It is only by acting together that we will be able to move organized gangs away from our streets to return them to the citizens. In this case, this concerns a pilot project, as always based on experience. It can be extended to other provinces and to Brussels if the case arises.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u8	Mr. Minister of the Interior, this morning we had a nice exchange at the Conference of Mayors with the Brussels authorities - the mayors and the heads of bodies. Are you ready for such a project to be carried out in Brussels in 2018? Would we be able to apply to either police area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u9	Certainly because we have received spontaneous applications from the provinces of Antwerp and Limburg. On the francophone side, we had to look. If, for your part, this is feasible in your municipality, a pilot project can also start in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u10	Minister, we take your word. We'll file a file. I'll talk to the police college as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u11	Deputy Prime Minister, we are going to talk about an innovation reported by the press. The radar in question is already being used in other countries, for example France. According to the article, it is in the process of being approved in our country, because changes must be made in order for the apparatus to comply with Belgian law. Indeed, as Michel Niezen, the managing director of SIRIEN - a company that provides radars to the Belgian police - points out: "After being informed of the federal police's interest in this system, we started the process for the PicoDigiCam, a laser device. Registration should take at least six months to complete. We had a first meeting with the metrology department of the SPF Economy and started laboratory tests to meet Belgian regulations." Could you provide us with more information on the use and certification of the laser gun in Belgium? Has there been any consultation with your colleague in charge of the Economy? What lessons have been learned, for example, from its use in France? What would be the cost? What measures will be taken, possibly in consultation with other ministers, to prevent the commercialization of devices allowing offenders to escape the laser gun?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u12	Mr Kir, the procedure for the approval of this type of equipment falls within the competence of the legal metrology department of the SPF Economy. That is why I would refer you to my colleague Kris Peeters on this aspect of your question. French law in this area is less strict than ours. In France, police officers are not required to document the crime and thus photograph the perpetrator. However, this system can be a source of error. In Belgium, the offence must be proved. Such a device has not yet been approved for the Belgian market. As a result, the Federal Highway Police do not use it. However, we remain attentive to its evolution and approval. If so, we will examine the desirability of acquiring this type of device and, above all, the framework within which it can be used. It is still too early to say how much and in what precise context these laser pistols will be used. First of all, we must wait for approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u13	Minister, we both have Catalan friends in this wonderful region of Spain and this wonderful city of Barcelona. This city symbolizes for me the "living together". On 7 December, the streets of Brussels were the scene of the parade of the supporters of Mr Puigdemont, who came from Catalonia from here and elsewhere. On the occasion of this demonstration, a cliché as well as others later circulated showing a police vehicle in service with the colours of the Catalan flag, which, you will agree, is not the sign of the neutrality expected of the forces of law and order during the supervisory missions entrusted to them. I imagine it wasn't you, even though you may not have missed the envy, who put this flag on the police vehicle. Are you aware of these facts? What do they inspire you? Under what circumstances could these colours be displayed on a police vehicle? Has an internal investigation been initiated against this behaviour? What steps will be taken to ensure that such behaviour is no longer repeated in circumstances as delicate as the Catalan flag or another? Usually, for this type of demonstration, a neutral zone is planned around the institutions and in particular the parliament. This was not the case on 7 December, as the flow of demonstrators was passing by. Why? As this last question was not foreseen, I can address it to you in writing. But when I ask you, I make my question a global question, because I have been questioned on the subject by several people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u14	I'm going to answer the last question first because she was astonishing me too. The explanation is as follows. It was not the demonstration that passed through the neutral zone. It was the people who left the demonstration and went to the station. The demonstration was not planned in the neutral zone. No demonstrations are accepted in this area. With regard to your first questions, I was aware of this by the media, since this photo was published on social media and passed on via some Belgian media on Friday, December 8. During the protest of the Catalan community on Thursday, 7 December, 20,000 demonstrators were initially announced. According to the official count of the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police, they were finally 45,000. More than 300 buses were used to transport some of these demonstrators. As a result, the police had to manage this large mass of demonstrators. Thousands of them found themselves in streets that had not originally been planned. They have sometimes stayed there almost an hour and thirty without moving, while the rest of the procession moves. The police have adapted to this situation. They took the most appropriate steps to ensure the smooth running of the event. The contacts between the police officers on the ground and the demonstrators were very positive throughout the demonstration. The numerous messages of thanks sent to our police by demonstrators on social networks are proof of this. Protesters followed the instructions of the police throughout the demonstration in an exemplary manner. It was in this context that demonstrators placed a Catalan flag on the window of a police vehicle wishing to show and immortalize the good understanding between the police and the demonstrators. Police officers who do not know the precise meaning of the flag or the sensitivity of the flag did not react directly to this situation. This lack of reaction therefore clearly had no political connotation but took place in a global context of managing an event and in particular of the negotiated management of the public space that is requested of our police officers. As soon as the police college in the area concerned had been notified of the existence and publication of the photo, it had asked the chiefs of corps in the area to question the personnel in charge of managing the event and to ask them for explanations, which had been done. The police college also asked him to remind all staff of the necessary neutrality of the police services. This reminder took place this Friday to those responsible for the services generally engaged to supervise this type of event. It will also be with all staff this week. I would add, to have the experience of the demonstrations, that it was always cheerful to drape a police car with its flag to quickly take the cliché and send it on social networks. I don't think it's usually a question here. Finally, it seems to me a little exaggerated to talk about following me on social networks by Spaniards and Members of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u15	Minister, thank you for your complete answers and for answering the improvised part of my question. So things are clear and we have all the elements. Your instructions seem to me to respond to my concerns and I can only rejoice with you in the quality of the police services and in the way they have framed such an important manifestation without any incident even if we know that our Catalan friends (with our different sensitivities) are not particularly violent. Through the conduct of the police forces, they recalled (having regard to the events of 1 October in Spain, it was necessary to do so) how the forces of law and public service should behave in a state of law and democracy, i.e. to ensure the safety of citizens by an appropriate framework while respecting, even if they are not shared, the objectives of the demonstration and to do so, in any case, without violence (democratic expression) even if the nuance of the content is not shared.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u16	Mr President, Mr Minister, the staff of the security corps, in particular responsible for the transfer of detainees, will be on strike on 20 December at the national level, announced on Monday the Joint Trade Union Front. The date of December 20 was not chosen at random. Next week, in Brussels, the trial of Salah Abdeslam for the shooting of the rue du Dries will be held, with the exception of Wednesday, the day chosen. The trade unions protest against the shadow zones around the new Directorate of Security (DAB) under which he will have to spend in a year's time. Negotiations are under way and the unions believe that the transfer conditions proposed by the authority for the 440 security personnel cannot be accepted. Minister, what is the status of negotiations on the creation of the Directorate of Security (DAB)? What are the proposed transfer conditions for security personnel? Do you intend to meet with union representatives by December 20? What steps do you intend to take to ensure security in the Abdeslam trial? Is this trial not compromised or endangered by this strike?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u17	Mr Dallemagne, I will answer both of your questions at once. The negotiations on the creation of the DAB have already taken place in dozens involving the Interior, of course, but also Defence, Mobility, LAC and Justice, both for the law and for the numerous draft regulations, in full coordination with all these departments. There is still one to be finalised at the level of trade union negotiations: the one relating to the security corps. In Justice, specifically on this last point, a memorandum of non-agreement was drawn up following the negotiation on 5 December. As for the final negotiation within the Police Services Committee, it is planned on 20 December, the day of strike of the security corps. It's probably no coincidence. Until then, there will be no additional interviews. The transfer conditions are clear and correct. There are clauses to safeguard salary scales and even career plans which, given their conditions, are limited to the transition from the first salary scale to the second. The claim to create, before transfer, a career plan from the first to the sixth salary scale and to safeguard them after transfer is totally exorbitant and unacceptable. In the end, for a limited police competence, this is equivalent to creating a scale similar to that enjoyed by the chief inspectors of the integrated police. To be more precise: I refer to the M3.1 treatment scale. I thought that an interprofessional union dynamic could have had a balancing effect, but to each of them their responsibilities. With regard to the security measures in the Adbeslam trial, I would ask you to address my colleague from the Department of Justice. As in the past, the police will support if necessary. This demonstrates once again the urgent need to carry out this DAB project. When Justice officials heard that security could not be guaranteed, they warned the federal state. As usual, we anticipate the necessary forces. If there are problems or lack of availability within the security corps, we always act in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u18	Minister, I find it a pity that you cannot meet with these people by December 20th. It would be interesting and useful to be able to ask them again about these issues, which continue to be of concern to them. In particular, they believe that they will lose money compared to their career if they had stayed in their current body. This transfer reduces their earnings. It is important that the agents are highly motivated, as it will be an indispensable security body, with a function essential for the safety of citizens. It is necessary to check how to stimulate these agents to perform this function within the new Directorate of Security, by establishing balances with other security bodies. I'll ask the Minister of Justice about securing the Palace of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u19	Mr Nollet, you have eight consecutive questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u20	Mr President, I defer question No 22440 because the minister told me that he had not yet met with the French minister. I would also like to apologise to the services and the Presidency for the delay. This delay is linked to the work of the plenary. It is always difficult to make committee meetings coincide with a plenary meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u21	Mr Minister, at our exchange on 29 November last on radioactive pollution detected in Europe at the end of September, you invited me to re-introduce my questions to which no answer would have been given – which I am happy to do. Why did the TELERAD system not identify anything, while the French system and other devices have identified the presence of the cloud? Why do you say in your response that the content and extent of the incident are not known, while the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) and the IRSN (Institute of Radioprotection and Nuclear Safety) have published very clear data in this regard? Since the scale of the accident can be approached in this way, I come back to my question: what protective measures would have been taken in the event of such an incident in Belgium? On November 21, in fine, the AFCN reported that there had been no trace of ruthenium in our home. Does not AFCN's communication conflict with that transmitted by Belgium to the IAEA? I have the document published by the latter body. Do we finally know where this cloud comes from and what is the cause of it? Yesterday, but that is very recent, I saw that Russia had communicated about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u22	Mr Nollet, radiological surveillance of the territory in Belgium is intended to protect the population and the environment. Therefore, the measurement instruments used in Belgium allow the detection of concentration levels of a few orders of magnitude below the guide levels for the taking of actions for the direct protection of the population, and hence levels which pose a risk to health and the environment. In France, some measuring instruments make it possible to measure the rate of radioactivity in the air even more accurately, beyond the limit which poses a risk to the population and the environment. In the case of ruthenium-106, the concentration levels detected in France pose no risk to the health of the population, workers and the environment. These levels are below the detection levels of the Belgian radiological monitoring system. It is therefore normal that the latter did not detect anything. No country has officially acknowledged that it is responsible for this rejection. As a result, neither the location, nor the date, nor the circumstances, nor the extent of the accident are known with certainty. Based on the period during which the release occurred and the weather conditions during this period, the modelling of air mass movements enabled the French IRSN and the German Federal Office for Radiation Protection (BFS) to trace the movement of the radioactive cloud and determine the plausible location of the release in the southern Ural. Based on dispersion models and measurements of radioactivity in air in European countries, these institutes estimated the amounts released to a few hundred terabecquerels, between 100 and 300 according to the IRSN. In the event that an accident of this magnitude occurred in Belgium, the Federal Nuclear Emergency Plan would have been activated and the various cells would have been mobilised to assess the consequences on the health of the population and on the environment and to decide on the protection measures to be taken. In the absence of precise data on the quantities released, the height of the discharge and the weather conditions that would have been those at the time of the accident, the assessment of potential consequences remains highly hypothetical. A theoretical calculation based on average weather conditions for Uccle suggests that the actions that could be taken would be the protection of the population over a few kilometres (between 0 and 5) in the plume axis and the protection of the food chain. This concerns, in particular, the ban on the consumption of fruit and vegetables whose leaves are eaten over a few tens of kilometres. We're talking about 50 kilometers in the plume axis. The figures provided to the IAEA are not measured values but limits of detection. Hence the use of the sign "smaller than". Instruments capable of measuring up to a certain level have not detected rhutenium. Therefore, the value is below these detection limits, which are, I repeat, well below the levels of risk. Please also note that an error has been made in the IAEA report Status of Measurements of Ru-106 in Europe of 13 October. The sign "less than" has been forgotten. The error has been corrected in the following reports. It is therefore not appropriate, as you did last week, to immediately question the credibility of our TELERAD system or to declare that certain information has been hidden from the IAEA. The TELERAD system works and the information is transparent. Finally, no country has officially acknowledged that it is the source of the rejection. But the calculations suggest that it is south of the Ural. It is the responsibility of the national security authority of the country concerned to monitor and provide information about the event.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u23	Minister, thank you for your full answer. We were able to address every point. I note that the French system is more precise. I believe that we need to put our people at the same level of information and protection, and thus at the same level of detection. At the moment, the French system detects faster, at lower doses. At one point, the beginning of the cloud is weak and can, in the event of an accident – which is not the case here – become more important. It would be interesting to have the information faster. I will dig into this to see how different the sensitivity is in France and Belgium. What's more interesting is that we don't know the origin. Of course, Belgium is not involved. Perhaps diplomatic efforts should be undertaken? The Russians are talking about a satellite that would have exploded. If this had happened in Belgium, the measures and consequences would have been serious. In other words, it's not nothing. With regard to the IAEA's error, I will ask your staff to send me the final report because I only have the initial report. I see 1.7, 1.4 for the days concerned. My remark was based on the numbers that were in my possession. Does the error come from us in the communication or from the IAEA in this publication?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u24	Mr Nollet, according to my information, this is a mistake on the part of the IAEA. The remark was made. The reports will be adapted and sent to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u25	That's very nice of you. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u26	Mr President, Minister, at the committee on 29 November last, I asked you about the transposition into Belgian law of the recommendations of WENRA which already date from 2014. You acknowledged with regret that the AFCN was lagging behind in this matter. Could you now give me the new schedule of work in this area? When will the AFCN be ready? What is the new calendar? It would be a matter of not dragging too long and, above all, not setting a deadline for the completion of the work too late. The "hasard" of the occurrence of earthquakes makes it as likely to have earthquakes in 2017 as in 2020 or 2022 or later. We can't predict when this can happen. Which parts, or possibly chapters, are still problematic in their transcription? Why the delay? In your answer, you stated that it might be that Electrabel would have to consider new events that could result in some significant changes to the facilities. The press also reports on the difficulties our plants face in meeting the new standards that require us to be able to withstand combinations of critical hazards. Do you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u27	Mr Nollet, concerning the introduction into the regulation of WENRA 2014 reference levels, AFCN is in the process of developing a draft amendment to the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011 laying down safety requirements for nuclear installations. The aim is to have a draft text by the end of March 2018, which will have to be submitted for consultation to the stakeholders and the mandatory advisory bodies according to the regulatory process followed within the AFCN. This project will then follow its course and I will commit myself to an approval on my part as soon as possible. You still need to know that regulation can take a long time. The introduction of these WENRA 2014 reference levels also represents a major task affecting about half of the Royal Decree. This is not limited to adding one or two lines per line. With regard to the timing of the implementation of these new regulatory requirements on the ground, I refer you to the approach presented by the Agency at the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety on 16 March 2016. As with any new regulations imposed on existing facilities, AFCN is organizing a formal consultation of the stakeholders as part of the introduction of WENRA reference levels. On the basis of a concrete draft amendment to the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011, AFCN will give all the Class 1 operators concerned the opportunity to comment. During this consultation, AFCN will also ask operators to identify the actions needed to comply fully with the new regulations and to provide a context for the time needed to implement these actions (study time, construction time, etc.).). On this basis, the AFCN will determine the necessity and duration of a possible transition period and incorporate it, if necessary, into the draft royal decree, which will then be subject to the signature of the competent minister and the King. As is the case for all projects entering continuous improvement, implementation does not occur from one day to the next and does not mean the end of continuous improvement. This does not mean that there is nothing at present. All nuclear power plants, notably Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1, can guarantee, with great confidence, the operation of their safety systems after earthquakes and improvements to the point assessed as the weakest, foreseen in the Long Term Operation (LTO) project. The press relays the information already outlined through the many questions you ask. Yes, the reference level may have impacts on the various Belgian nuclear power plants, in particular Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1. Yes, it is important to move forward on this issue. This is why Electrabel began its analysis on the basis of the original texts of the WENRA reference level. Electrabel systematically reviews the various hazards and their combinations. This exercise is important and it is only at its end that the conclusions on the extent of the amendments will be drawn. Nuclear experts also spend time monitoring this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u28	Minister, thank you again for the very comprehensive aspect of your answer. On point 3, I particularly insisted on the word "combination", you took it back in your answer, because that was the new element. It wasn't the rest. Indeed, the rest, I had already discussed with you, but I understand that this is taken into account because indeed, the problems may arise on the combination of events, but we will see. The analysis is under way. On the calendar, you say things clearly. It's your habit. It's scheduled for March 2018 and then there's the formal consultations. I take note of that. Where I am not reassured, on the other hand, is the transitional approach, since at this stage, in the preliminary discussions to which you refer in the sub-committee, Electrabel did not exclude the transition phase running until 2025, when the plants were closed. If this were to be confirmed, you will understand that I will intervene again by saying that this is not going to happen. I already pay attention to you since the work will come to you at the end of March 2018 too. You'll see the arrest. Do not accept, minister, a transition phase that is in fact a drift in the system and a useless gift offered to Electrabel! It is known that at that time the closure date of the plants would be retained, which is in no way a solution to the risks incurred by that time. I know you'll be careful. In any case, I will have the opportunity to come back to the subject from March or April.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u29	I discovered that Belgoprocess would have conducted in Bulgaria and in great discretion a whole series of tests in a plasma incinerator with certain nuclear waste, which would be ours. Can you tell us more about the financial and legal structure of this operation? The rules on nuclear safety and radiation protection in Bulgaria (radiation exposure standards, etc.) Are they the same as in Belgium? If not, how do they differ? Do Belgian workers in Bulgaria work under the Belgian or Bulgarian security regulations? Are Belgian workers in Belgoprocess in Bulgaria potentially exposed to higher doses than in Belgium? What radioactive waste is treated exactly at facilities in Bulgaria? Where do the waste treated at the Belgoprocess facilities in Bulgaria come from? What happens with the waste from the treatment process, do they remain in Bulgaria? Are they or will they be repatriated to the country of origin?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u30	Mr Nollet, the control of the management of Bulgarian nuclear waste in Bulgaria is not the responsibility of AFCN. It has no information on the financial and legal arrangements for this operation. The basic radiation protection standards are established at European level. The AFCN does not have specific information on nuclear safety rules in Bulgaria. The Belgian employer is obliged to ensure the well-being at work and the radiation protection of its workers, including their dosimetric and medical supervision, of which it must ensure continuity, both in Belgium and abroad. As for the foreign company, it is responsible for the operational radiation protection measures of external workers having a direct bearing on the nature of their activities in the company. Communication between the two parties responsible for the elements relating to the radiation protection of the worker, such as his dosimetry, can be done via the radiological passport system. With regard to your other questions, I invite you to consult the report available on the ONDRAF website. You will find answers to your third, fourth and fifth questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u31	Minister, I'm used to receiving supplements from the co-worker. I will be satisfied with this answer at this stage. I pledge to dig, depending on the answers I will receive. It's something that's calling me. I understand that you don't have all the answers, because this isn't directly about the AFCN. But I'll come back to you if necessary, or I'll find other ways to dig this up. I don't think it's clear yet. But maybe I'll have answers by email.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u32	Mr President, Minister, the ASN, the French equivalent of the AFCN, has recently expressed concern about the "degraded" state of water circulation pipes of 29 of the 58 reactors in the French nuclear fleet. "Cold water pumps could stop operating in the event of an earthquake or flood," says the ASN in a press release. The problem was considered serious enough to rank it at a level 2 on the INES scale, which had not happened in France in five years. "Some pipes are so rusty that the thickness of their wall has decreased and may not resist in the event of violent events," says the ASN. At our committee on 25 October, you told me that, as part of its mission to protect the population, the AFCN was following closely the development of this issue. An analysis of the applicability and potential implications of this incident on Belgian power plants was under way to find out more about the issue. It was also a question of whether the analysis of the situation in France highlighted new elements that had not yet been studied in our country in the past. At our committee on 29 November, you stated that "at the end of November (or shortly) the Nuclear Safety Authority will receive input from the operator on this issue and, from there, it will begin its analysis." Mr Minister, I will come back to you to do the topo following the reception of this input. I would now like to know the first results or, if they exist, the final results of this analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u33	Mr Nollet, in the feedback of recent experiments by EDF plants in France, linked to the risk of loss of the cold source of reactors, the following problems have been identified. These are in fact two problems. The first problem is the risk of internal flooding due to an earthquake rupture of the pipes of the water supply systems of the fire protection and raw water filtration system. These circuits are not classified as "safety". Second problem, corrosion. EDF carried out investigations showing several portions of these pipes, a degraded condition with thicknesses below the minimum thickness required to ensure their resistance to earthquakes. These degradations are the result of corrosion that may have developed in the absence of adequate preventive maintenance. In Belgium, the two issues identified above were taken into account from the time of the design of the power plants following the examination of incidents, as well as in the analysis in support of the previous ten-year revisions. As a result of these analyses, several solutions have been implemented to address the deficiencies, including corroded pipe replacements. For example, in Tihange, 100% fire protection line pipes were replaced, largely with Glass Reinforced Epoxy tubes. The choice of this material eliminates the risk of corrosion in the future. The replaced parts of this circuit, although not classified as "safety", were also verified during the earthquake. Control of the risk of flooding of the safety system necessary to cool the reactor core and put the plant in a safe state following an unclassified "safety" circuit failure has also been reverified as part of the analyses in support of the LTO projects for the oldest plants: Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1. Corrosion is a degradation phenomenon that must be covered by proper ageing management. The analysis of the corrosion risk of classified systems, as well as of unclassified systems, whose failure could jeopardize the availability of safety equipment, led to the establishment of monitoring programmes for Belgian plants. This includes visual inspections and non-destructive controls. In conclusion, analyses of the applicability of the specific problem to EDF power plants carried out by the Belgian operator Electrabel, as well as independently by Bel V as a subsidiary of AFCN, lead to the conclusion that the same problem of flood risk and loss of safety system due to corroded pipes that do not withstand an earthquake does not exist at the Doel and Tihange power plants. Each year, Electrabel carries out tests to measure the thickness of various pipe walls that are important for the safety that can be corroded or carries out preventive inspections on coatings. Depending on the results of the inspections, the necessary corrective actions shall be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u34	Minister, thank you. At this point, I simply take note of your answer and take the time to analyse it. I'll come back to you if I need to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u35	Minister, on Thursday, September 15, 2011, the Duferco La Louvière plant is disturbed by an incident. For a reason that remains unknown, caesium 137, comparable to the isotopes detected during the Chernobyl disaster, slips, melts and turns into radioactive dust in the electric furnace. According to some figures, the radioactive sink would have generated 400 tonnes of dust to be treated. According to the Medor quarterly published in early December, the steelmaker Duferco later defiled the soil by illegally burying waste from this incident. The charges were brought by former executives of the firm. This radioactive waste is said to have been buried in catini in order to reduce the cost of treatment. "I dare say, there have been many abnormal maneuvers. Dust was buried with cranes before the damage was counted in order to minimize the slate," said former trade union delegate FGTB Mustafa Ekinçi. It would have been as far as placing crosses on plant planes at the targeted locations. He even indicated the names of the loggers who were in control of the buried equipment. Minister, do you confirm this situation? How do you describe it based on the items you collected? Was the AFCN aware of these facts prior to the publication of this article? Was an investigation initiated by the AFCN before or after this publication? What does this investigation reveal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u36	Mr. Nollet, according to some information, it appears that a complaint has been filed with the Public Prosecutor's Office concerning this case. No information was brought to the direct knowledge of the AFCN. The Prosecutor's Office is awaiting a possible request from the Public Prosecutor's Office to initiate investigations, if the latter deems it necessary. It is also possible for complainants to contact AFCN directly, who will audit them, analyze the facts and initiate an investigation if deemed necessary. The AFCN has not yet conducted an investigation on the basis of statements in the press. Please also be aware that the AFCN has been following the entire file, from the notification of accidental contamination to now, through dust collection and storage authorization. The AFCN did not find such actions in the management of the accident. AFCN found that Duferco had submitted to any operational or administrative action it had imposed on it. Duferco is in the process of developing a facility, a first in Belgium, which will allow the separation of the radioactivity from hundreds of tonnes of dust to reduce its volumes so that they can be managed more easily.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u37	Minister, I understand that at this stage, the issue is not before the PSAN. I also hear that if a complainant wishes to speak to the AFCN, he or she can do so. I note that the company has not seized AFCN of this problem, but this may still be happening. We will follow the case carefully, but I understand that at this point you cannot tell me more. Your response could trigger different operations with the AFCN to verify what is happening. I also hear that justice could take over from AFCN. This has already happened in other files. The file does not seem to me to be closed, even if the point is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u38	Minister, at our meeting on October 25, I asked you about the Japanese company Kobe Steel, which had just admitted that it had falsified the performance of products delivered to more than 200 customers for years. The company admitted that its employees had provided false quality inspection reports for products used in the automotive sector as well as in the nuclear industry. First of all, you said: "In view of the various cases of fraud or falsification revealed in recent years in the nuclear industry, the AFCN will closely monitor the development of the case". You added that AFCN could not yet confirm whether a Belgian nuclear power plant was a direct or indirect customer of Kobe Steel and that it had asked Electrabel to determine whether components supplied by Kobe Steel or manufactured from metal supplied by the same company had been installed in the nuclear power plants and, if so, to assess the impact of any falsification on the acceptability of the component. I therefore asked you again on 29 November and, while inviting me to come back to you in December, you told me that you had not yet received all the answers from Electrabel. I think it's pretty amazing that Electrabel wasn't able to answer you more quickly to relatively basic questions. I will come back today to ask you about the answers provided by Electrabel on each of these points and, above all, what analysis the AFCN has in its books. Has one of our nuclear power plants been a direct or indirect customer of Kobe Steel? What are the components that may be affected? Have you received all the guarantees that falsification does not entail any risk to our plants and, therefore, to workers and residents? Are we witnessing a second scandal, after the Creusot Forge case, which is still far from having revealed its true magnitude?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u39	Mr Nollet, the falsifications committed by the Japanese company Kobe Steel in the manufacturing files of many components is a huge problem for many industries. Indeed, they affect all industrial sectors, from aeronautics to nuclear energy. However, it appears that the difficulties for the latter are less severe than those posed by the Creusot Forge dossier, as Kobe Steel supplies fewer materials for nuclear power plants. In addition, falsifications are limited to the last ten years of the company's production. At the request of AFCN, Engie-Electrabel has taken initiatives to verify whether products delivered by Kobe Steel are present in any component of Belgian nuclear power plants. The results of these investigations show that Kobe Steel is neither a contractor nor a first-level subcontractor for them – with one exception. Electrabel asked its contractors to verify with their suppliers that no Kobe Steel material had been delivered to the nuclear power plants. Engie-Electrabel therefore waits for information from subcontractors at higher levels to arrive in the coming weeks. I mentioned an exception above. It appears that a product from a subsidiary of Kobe Steel – in this case welding material – was used in the manufacture of the new steam generators of Tihange 2, Doel 1 and Doel 2 – in 2001, 2004 and 2009 respectively – by the MHI contractor. The first indications, however, show that this subsidiary of Kobe Steel would not be affected by the falsifications. There are therefore, for the moment, no safety problems identified in Belgian nuclear power plants as a result of this admission of falsification in Japan. The investigation continues with respect to subcontractors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u40	I hear the investigation continues for subcontractors. It'll take some more time and I'll come back to you for that part because if there's any room involved, it's pretty annoying. I would like to hear you say that the investigation continues on the exception. For in your answer, as far as the exception is concerned, you say "the welding would not...", which is conditional. I want to be sure that the investigation continues on this part, unless you say there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u41	The investigation continues on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u42	I'll come back to you, probably in the fall. Nevertheless, I think it takes a lot of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u43	Minister, on Friday 8 December, dozens of AFCN staff took part in the action organized to denounce a lack of social consultation within the Agency. Have you taken any initiative to resettle the social dialogue in this company that is under your control? Do you confirm that of the 12 services of the AFCN, six are the subject of a psychosocial burden survey with the SPF Employment and Labour? What answer do you provide to the unions, who are asking for a plan to anticipate the future of employees in connection with the end of nuclear production in 2025? It is known that nuclear power plants represent only a charge of 20%, but 80% of the Agency's subsidies. What solution do you propose to solve this problem for the management of the remaining skills, such as the medical one? Do you confirm that the agency would have provided large amounts for future layoffs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u44	Mr Nollet, the management of AFCN has become aware of the grievances of the Trade Union Front. A basic consultation committee, bringing together management and trade unions, was held on Monday, 11 December. This point was raised during this debate. The management has invited the trade union organizations to request a new visit for consultation. Of the 20 teams, services or cells, six are specifically investigated. The AFCN is engaged in a strategic exercise on the future of the Agency, including the future of employees. Reserves are made up of surplus annual budgets and can only be mobilised in exceptional cases, subject to various agreements drawn up in advance. At their request, some union representatives were received in my office a few months ago. Although this matter falls within the purview of the Board of Directors and the management of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA), my firm provided, after this meeting, to the management of the FNCA, the data of a contact person in the Recruitment and Development DG, to facilitate the development of certain human resources systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic782x.u45	Minister, I can only invite you to pay particular attention to the situation in the AFCN. You say that "six out of twenty services are identified as having a problem and being investigated for psychosocial burden": this must therefore be a strong indicator for you. I hope you'll pay attention to it. Secondly, when members of the AFCN announce that the Agency is no longer in a position to guarantee the protection of workers and the public, you will understand that I am concerned. The primary mission, however, is the essential mission of the AFCN. I invite you to pay particular attention to this matter. Of course, management is going to change, but the problem is not only with the Director-General, but also with the corporate culture. The agency's workers, whom I regularly use, deserve as much attention as my questions. AFCN's mission is important to nuclear issues.
