ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u2	Colleagues, as you have seen, we are starting with an extensive socio-economic chapter with twelve questions to the Prime Minister. Twelve questions are addressed to the Prime Minister and I invite him to join me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe the silence and to have a little respect for the questioners and those who reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Everyone in the hemisphere knows that our group is very much in favour of the accumulation, as I said. One man, one job. Premiership is certainly a full-time job. It is not a good thing for a prime minister to be a relationship therapist and to be involved in mediation all the time and to ensure that government parties are a little bit alike. In this sense, yesterday, as a Member of Parliament and also as a citizen of this country, I was genuinely satisfied with the announcement by CD&V and the N-VA that politics was being done in a normal way. They were going to try to do what politicians are paid for, especially dealing with people's problems rather than with themselves. I was genuinely satisfied with that. It would have been better if these parties had jointly announced in the same Communication that corporate taxes would be reformed to suit SMEs' needs, fair and simple. It would also have been better, Prime Minister, if you had announced that you would organise a super-Minister's Council on Climate and Energy, a fourth Super-Minister's Council on the blind spot of this majority. And it would have been even better if the two party chairmen, Mr Beke and Mr De Wever, had jointly announced that they would finally make a fair contribution to the greatest capabilities. However, I would like to remain positive and quote another important element from yesterday. After all, there was a door ajar. Indeed, yesterday Bart De Wever said that there is talk about the fair contribution of the greatest abilities. Finally, the largest Flemish party has understood that there is an incredibly large social and political majority for fair taxation, including in Flanders. It is, however, a real shame, Prime Minister, that after half a day the peacekeeping force seems almost to fall apart. And it is very unfortunate, ladies and gentlemen of the Open Vld, that after half a day a government party rises up and says that it does not like a fair contribution of the greatest abilities. That is what I want to focus on in my question, Prime Minister. After what was said yesterday, you must also make a clear commitment today that you will work towards fair taxation. It is our conviction, ladies and gentlemen, that if we do politics in our country in a normal way, if we do what every organization and every company does every day, in particular a problem that arises, solve, there is a terrifyingly great possibility in our country. I invite you to clarify the issue of fair taxation at 100% and 10% during this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u5	Prime Minister, let me quote you: "To want at all costs the budgetary balance for 2018 would be silly." However, in 2014, at the start of this government, a triple idiot promised balance for 2017. Remember the table you distributed in plenary session: "Objective 0% for 2017". Where are we today? The European Commission says that a deficit of 2% was Belgium's situation in 2017. So we have not evolved! There have been 10 billion fiscal efforts, 10 billion austerity, all to maintain a structural deficit! That is the record of this government. We cannot count on the goed bestuur of the N-VA since, with every budgetary control, Minister Van Overtveldt commits a blunder. He didn't even dare come today. It has confused 1 million with 250 million euros in VAT control. He also tried to hide his bumblebee for a year. Had he been an accountant in a private company, he would have been fired a long time ago! How do you justify postponing the budgetary balance? Mrs Wilmès said that growth must be encouraged; you insist on continuing the reforms. This still means austerity, cuts in health care, new attacks on pensions, the exclusion of unemployed people, wage blockades. On the other hand, we are continuing the reforms, that is, we are giving new gifts to capital - after the tax shift, after the index jump -, probably by reducing the corporate tax rate - that's probably what you're going to tell us. In terms of surplus value, yesterday, Bart De Wever said we could discuss it. Today, the N-VA and the Open Vld say no. Are you going to keep Mr. "Budget Roll" in the government? Will the decline in the ISOC rate take place during this legislature? Will this reform be neutral, as Mrs Thyssen asks? Otherwise, what will the cost be? We know the position of the other three government parties on the taxation of capital gains. What is the MR? Is the postponement of the budgetary balance also aimed at making large investments? If so, what is it? And for what amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u6	Prime Minister, in Belgium's stability programme, 2015-2018, a key point was announced by your government: "The federal government developed the stability programme 2015-2018, which was approved by the Federal Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015. It provides both for a structural fiscal balance for all public authorities in 2018 and for each entity's fiscal trajectories to achieve a structural fiscal balance by 2018 at the latest." It is on the basis of these commitments that you have tried to gain credibility from public opinion: "better manager of public finances than any other majority", "better manager of public debt than any other government", "more rigorous in the management of public expenditure". You have pooled us with this budget after budget, telling us that, despite the criticism of the Court of Auditors, despite the warning of various international or European bodies, you were able to stand the course. Today, after simmagres between CD&V and N-VA, we have the revelation that your government is sluggish on the budget, as we predicted. The moment of truth finally rang. We're going to have to tell the citizens the truth. If you are not able to hold on to the budget, it is simply because you have made bad economic choices; because there will be no debt reduction if there is not first an appointment with economic growth. Today, Belgium is below the European average. That's the truth. That is why you are in budgetary difficulty: because your economic choices have hampered Belgium's economic growth. Perhaps it's time to tell us if you're going to change your paradigm or if you're going to push the country into debt, while you're saying, a short while ago, that your choice wasn't to leave the growing debt of the state to future generations. Yet you're making it worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u7	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the least we can say is that these last few weeks have been marked by the internal wars of the government, as well as by immobilism. Prime Minister, the latest incendiary statements of your Secretaries of State, cleverly and strategically calculated for the communication of the N-VA, have been particularly distressing. The time and energy they spend on it is totally unacceptable. These episodes help to paralyze the government, but above all to decredivize it. Yesterday, the scenery changed. You've decided to set a great stage, with an attempt at N-VA-CD&V rabibouchage. It gave the impression that it was the day of the kiss, of Kusjedag. It was yesterday. We will see how long it will last. In addition, you also announced the postponement of the budgetary balance, but also three thematic meetings of the government in Val Duchesse First of all, as far as fiscal balance is concerned, however, it was an important commitment of your government. Worse, you have even explained how hard, brutal measures must be taken towards the citizens, because it allows you to achieve a balanced budget. It is also a demonstration of what you and the Belgian financial and budgetary experts have been told for some time now, that your budget was completely out of line. It's a little bit the chronicle of an announced budgetary death. As for the thematic governments, you are planning three, one of which is on the economic and employment side. I note that last August, as Prime Minister, you already made a big statement to announce your public investment plan. Then, just a month ago, you did a great staging of communication with a few big bosses to repeat exactly the same content. Prime Minister, my question is very clear. At these meetings, and especially at the economic and employment development level, will the files of the investment plan, the taxation of capital gains, the mobility budget, ISOC and the mobilisation of savings be put on the agenda or not and, above all, put into practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u8	Prime Minister, you have once again had to intervene in order to bring the bickering coalition partners into a fragile state of affairs. You sincerely deserve my congratulations that you can bring back together two parties who do not trust each other and who constantly bully each other and deliberately sabotage each other. I think you have a successful career as a relationship therapist after politics. From a government that leaves yet another quarrel at kindergarten level and says it will not do and will work anymore, I would have expected a little more decisive, courageous reforms, for example. The first thing that government does is break another election promise. The budgetary balance for 2018 in black and white in the coalition agreement is postponed. The government, Prime Minister, will even ensure that it cannot be dealt with, because you will postpone it until after the next elections. In other words, the government has decided that the highest priority, without the PS, you remember, will be postponed to another government, perhaps with the PS. Mr Bogaert said today in De Tijd, rightly, I quote: "This government has started without state reform, provided that socio-economic order is put in place. The postponement of the budgetary balance is at odds with that." He's right, colleagues. The N-VA itself made the commitment of the coalition agreement of putting that budgetary order into order. It is, as it were, the reason for the government's existence. It was the prerequisite to accept the Community's standstill of at least five years. For this reason, Prime Minister, I would ask you to act consistently for once. If you take that budget balance of 2018 out of the coalition agreement, will you also remove from the coalition agreement the condition to which it was subject, namely the Community standstill? That is the only consistent consequence. Or better yet, will you pull the plug from the government? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u9	Prime Minister, in recent days you have rightly pointed out loyalty in the government. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we have increased too many differences of opinion in the majority over the last few months, let us be honest about that. However, in recent months we have also made progress on key issues. Think of workable work, think of the wage bill and the competitiveness of our companies, think of the guaranteed funding of social security, think of many reforms in the area of justice. In all these areas, we have, regrettably, approved our differences of opinion on legislative work in the Chamber. Every government is looking halfway for its second breath, including the current government. Then we can leave it at that, or then we can show the ambition to carry on with the reforms. Well, we choose the latter. I hear criticism in our assembly of the fact that we have adapted the budget path to reality. (Conversation on the banks) May I remind the opposition colleagues who just laughed loudly, of what we did in the government's previous legislature with regard to that budget heading? That was the same thing. The agreements at the start of that government were not honoured nor in the course of the reign. We pushed them through, and you approved it, Mr. Temmerman. Besides, Europe does not demand balance. Mr Maingain, that we are a little behind, and I admit that this has nothing to do with wrong choices, but it has to do with right choices. The main reason for this is the fact that we have pumped billions into a tax shift to help people get to work, especially in favour of the people with the lowest income. That's why. Of course, we want a budget balance, the sooner, the better. But even more important is how we achieve that balance and what reforms we are implementing. I come to my questions to you, Prime Minister. What concrete steps will we take in the coming months? How will we do that? I am also addressing all my good colleagues from the majority. It goes without saying that we differ on that route. That is why we are also present in different groups. But we have the same ambition: to implement these reforms. May I refer to the previous President of the United States, who said that a politician is being measured, not what he is breaking down, but what he is building up. In order to give the Prime Minister and the Government the opportunity to implement the reforms, let us pay particular attention in the coming days and months to what we do want rather than what we do not want.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u10	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in all modesty I still dare to count myself as the young generation. This young generation inherits a debt of more than 400 billion euros, the historic Belgian public debt. In every year with a budget deficit, in every year where expenditure is higher than revenue, that debt runs and we transfer a lot more to my generation and to the generation after us. Our coalition, Prime Minister, inherited a budget deficit of about 3% on its arrival. We were on the European criminal record; we spent EUR 12.5 billion more each year than we received, even after the tax burden on our income had risen to a record level. Three years later, according to the Supreme Court of Finance 2017, we will be able to close with a standard structural deficit of 1%. 1 % of colleagues, after three years, that is an enormous achievement. For the sake of clarity, that is an achievement that has not been achieved by turning the load valve open, quite the contrary. By really paying attention to expenditure and by implementing structural reforms, we have been able to give back another EUR 4 billion to the taxpayer. We have reduced the tax burden by at least EUR 4 billion, tax money that goes back to the citizen. In addition, thanks to these reforms, a record number of people are at work. Prime Minister, I heard yesterday that the path to a budget balance would be postponed from 2018 to 2019. In 2018 we would only achieve 0.8 % of that 1 %. I have a number of questions to ask. First of all, I would like to ask you to link the format of the budget for 2018 to the format of the budget for 2019. That's very important. This is not only important because 2019 is an election year in which negotiations become difficult. It is also important as a guarantee for my generation and the next that that last 0.2 % is actually realized. I would specifically ask you to reconnect this with a solid set of structural reforms, reforms that strengthen growth, that recreate jobs, that secure the future of my generation and the generation after us. That's the commitment I'm asking you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this trip has not changed my view of things! With hard work and courage, the government has managed to reduce our structural deficit, as we will be below 1% by the end of 2017. With structural reforms, and contrary to what dismayed minds might have believed, it has been possible to restore the competitiveness of our businesses, to increase the number of jobs, to increase the number of businesses, to increase purchasing power and to reduce the tax burden. The OECD report ranks us, for 2016, as top performing with Austria in terms of reducing the tax burden. The implementation of the tax shift at both the tax and social levels on 2017, 2018 and 2019 will further improve things. In this positive context, the government has decided, it is true, to postulate the budgetary balance and, therefore, to smooth the arrival of this balance over the period 2017-2019. This, however, remains an ambitious objective, but it is more realistic and in any case perfectly aligned with our social and economic objectives and with our growth objectives. The consolidation of public finances is obviously important. But it needs to be brought forward with caution so as not to hinder economic recovery, the positive labour market dynamics and the implementation of the necessary complementary structural reforms. Prime Minister, my group urges you and the government to continue along this path, to put in place both the national investment pact and the complementary reforms. Mrs. Thyssen was in that building earlier. It noted that it saw no inconvenience with regard to this postponement. I therefore assume that you will confirm that all this is done in accordance with the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. Finally, Prime Minister, you have announced three Councils of Thematic Ministers. Could you tell us more about their purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u12	Prime Minister, the main thread of the coalition agreement was the creation of jobs. Over the past 2.5 years, your government has therefore taken various initiatives that both provide work and make working itself more attractive. The tax shift is an important tool to stimulate both competitiveness and job creation, but also to increase the purchasing power of employees, first and foremost for the low income groups. However, to our great surprise, we note that the trade unions, which should be our partners in the ambition to create a job, have this week completely abandoned the government's policy in a joint press file. The trade unions feel that the tax shift does not provide enough new jobs and costs too much money per job, while the Planning Bureau in its March report mentioned an expected job creation of 257 000 additional jobs in the coming period 2017-2022. This is mainly about jobs in the private sector. European Commissioner Marianne Thyssen also confirmed in this House this morning that there is a direct link between the tax shift and the creation of additional jobs. In addition, the trade unions also claim that the tax shift leads to less income for employees, while a recent report by the National Bank in black and white shows that your government's average purchasing power has risen again over the last 2.5 years. I am talking about real spending capacity, including all kinds of price increases that go with it. Prime Minister, we started a project at the end of 2014, which is now about halfway through. I'm sure there's still a lot of work to be done. There are things that are certainly not prefect. There may be criticism, but we cannot accept that a number of good, structural and necessary reforms are being discredited and even threatened with half-truths, while several objective bodies, both at Belgian and European level, confirm that there are results. Do you agree with me that the joint analysis of the trade unions is exaggerated and one-sidedly negative and that the government can indeed produce results? Will you take an initiative as a government in the coming days to convince these trade unions and at least redirect information to the wider population and to the middle class organisations? Do you intend to continue along this road and to bring the necessary structural reforms to a successful conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u13	Mr. President, Prime Minister, you are inducted into a professional re-administrator of an increasingly disarticulated government. The country is now, alas, dependent, in spite of itself, on the incessant quarrels between your political partners, some reacting to the provocations of others. In addition to these bluffs that give your government a poor image, there are fundamental oppositions and disagreements that are spreading in the public square. Even today, even as the N-VA claims to be open to fairer taxation – perhaps understand about capital gains, probably the price to be paid to buy back the lost honour of the CD&V – we discover in the press that Mr. Van Biesen states that the Open Vld opposes this, considering that taxation on capital gains is an almost absolute taboo. What a cacophony and disorder, Prime Minister! For it is indeed a disorder, a government disorder, to which is added a budgetary disorder; it has also been known since yesterday. Indeed, you were making a return to balance in 2018 a repeated political priority. The fact is, however, very clear: despite all the sacrifices imposed on the population, despite all the so-called return effects of your so-called tax shift, despite all this, you are in the most complete budgetary impasse. We do not have the fetishism of a fiscal trajectory that is too steep. What we have been denouncing for the past three years is your economic and social policy which does not produce the far-fetched return effects on which you have put almost all of your budgetary policy. The buoy you're going to hang on to, as usual – the only one, by the way – is the creation of net jobs. I'm saying "net." This creation of net jobs – as you know, Prime Minister – does not convince anyone, as your figures are questionable on both the number and the quality. You will invoke the Supreme Council of Finance, Mrs Thyssen's statements for the Commission. No one's fooled! Whether it is in 2018 or 2019, you will again charge our fellow citizens. You will make them pay for your government's budgetary mistakes, as you have done since the beginning of the legislature. As far as the debt is concerned, let us not lose sight of the fact that you have increased the debt with your management errors. In fact, the European Commission reminds you of that. That's also why you're going to rush to sell Belfius, because there too no one is fooled. My question is very simple, Prime Minister. Are you finally going to meet the concrete expectations of our fellow citizens who can no longer do so either from your arguments or from your anti-social policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, some of you have already spoken and Mr Dewael will speak after me. I must say that I am not very impressed by your speeches. You may be able to tell yourself something, but not the voter. Remember that! After all, people have seen in recent weeks that there is once again disagreement and bickering in this government, again fighting, hostility and hatred, nothing of teamwork. That fight costs a lot and is paid by the people in cash. This government has decided to charge the people with additional invoices. According to the Minister of Finance, it was necessary to increase the VAT on electricity because, so to speak, a total of EUR 250 million was wrongly used for the reduced rate. Today it appears that only 1.5 million euros could be collected. The reason for increasing people's VAT invoices therefore turns out to be a misguided reason today. As this government fights, the people at home all get their reckoning. I've had several phones from people who are angry or shocked by their reckoning. They wonder why they have to pay hundreds of euros in addition. It is not a question of EUR 10 or EUR 20, but of EUR hundreds more! And what does this government do? Fighting. What's there to argue about? On the issue of value added tax, on whether or not fair taxation should be introduced. Well, Prime Minister, yesterday N-VA and CD&V announced that they would make amends. They were gonna be friends again. Today there's a fight between Open Vld and N-VA. Because of all this fighting within this government, you're laughing at people right in the face. Prime Minister, I only have one question. Is this added value tax going to happen or is it not going to happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for a good understanding, Mrs Kitir, we have not argued with anyone in recent weeks and I do not intend to do so either. Prime Minister, I would like to focus on the government's decision, the decision you made yesterday. In fact, in my view, that is a kind of double decision. Firstly, there is your budgetary exercise, which I understand, that you have already been asked, that you will make it together, in one go, for the years 2018 and 2019. There are precedents for this in the past. Secondly, at the same time, you have also announced that you want to see an economic growth plan approved. You want to approve a package of economic measures, of socio-economic measures, in order to further boost the economic growth that exists in our country. You must do the same, of course, because you have to take account of the European expiry dates. You must notify the European Union of a programme, not only of the budgetary objectives, but also of the measures you are going to take. And they must of course be credible in order to achieve those objectives. That budgetary ambition on the one hand and that support package on the other hand go hand in hand for us. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's decision also includes confirmation of the tax shift, in particular that, as from 1 January next year, the measures already taken to reduce the tax on persons will be doubled. However, I would like to say that, and I am not saying that, but the Planning Bureau and all the authorities say that the purchasing power of the population has improved as a result of this reduction in personal taxation and that the impact of that tax shift will double from 1 January of next year. This is important for the economy. And then we have to come here and talk about one thing and another, these are economically substantial measures, which we must be able to maintain in the future. Then I come to the third aspect. What measures do we need to enable further job creation? Prime Minister, I note that 120 000 jobs have been added since your arrival. Those 120 000 jobs didn't just fall out of the sky. With every restructuring of a jobless company, it was said from the left that it was your fault, Prime Minister. If 120 000 jobs are added, that is your credit, Prime Minister. One cannot say one thing and the other at the same time. Either it's one or it's another. I'd like to make a note of that. As far as job creation is concerned, the employment rate in our country is 67%. In the Netherlands, that is 77%, in Germany, 79 percent and in the Scandinavian countries at 80%. If you can bridge 10 % employment, that means 3 points of gross domestic product and you no longer have a deficit. All countries that have a budget surplus today are countries that have been able to boost their employment. That is what Open Vld expects from the package of measures that we want approved before the parliamentary recess. Only with economic growth will we achieve budgetary results, but everyone has to get to work and we in our country still have to cover 10% if we want to compare ourselves with countries like the Netherlands and Germany. Prime Minister, will you take these measures? Is there going to be such an economic growth plan before the parliamentary recess? Our group is looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are almost half this Parliament. Two years and six months ago, on the basis of a government programme, we started a reform process. It is true that we had the ambition to support job creation by putting it at the heart of our economic and political project and at the service of the financing of social protections. We also had the ambition, in parallel, to make progress so that the consolidation of the budgetary situation would be at the service of all our citizens. I would therefore like to share some thoughts with you. Firstly, it was necessary to put the points on the i, as we did, about cohesion and trust between us. It is in this sense that, after the words of a Secretary of State, I had the necessary interviews and communicated the relevant messages. I do not tolerate disloyalty in the majority. In this spirit, I also considered it necessary, both within the Kern with the Deputy Prime Ministers and with the party presidents, to see a will and an ambition to act to pursue reforms. After two years of structural decisions, one can claim anything, say anything. I have heard that people are asking for sacrifices from the people. Our conviction, which is crucial in the current circumstances, is that we continue our efforts. We have an additional one hundred and five thousand jobs. Purchasing power rises for low and medium wages. These are all consequences of our decisions. On the financial side, the National Bank, the Planning Office and the OECD are seeing the results. We will continue on this path! In the next few months, we will work hard, with a clear methodology and strong commitment. What are the concrete priorities? In three special ministerial councils for the summer, we will place three crucial themes on the order of the day for additional structural, fundamental decisions. The first is security, with Justice and Defence. This remains an important challenge for our society. Everyone is aware of that. The second point is economic development with job creation. Mr Dewael, that is indeed the best way of achieving a sustainable and definitive reform of our budget. The third point is the social approach to combating poverty. These are also fundamental elements in our coalition agreement. The summer will of course be an important moment. That is when the preparation of the budget for 2018 and perhaps for 2019 can be done. So that is an important moment for the second half of the legislature. It is therefore three Councils of Thematic Ministers, alongside the ordinary Council of Ministers that we will continue to hold. Finally, by the summer, based on the figures available, we will decide on complementary issues to support economic development and the ability to create additional jobs. I feel good. I am not blushing on results at this stage. For example, I note that, each month, twice as many people as in the previous legislature choose the self-employed career. I also observe that there have never been so few bankruptcies in the last few years. I note that consumer confidence is on the rise. According to the latest report of the World Economic Forum, we have climbed in the ranking in terms of competitiveness. Certainly, there is still work to be done. But the eyes in the eyes, I tell you, Mr. Maingain: our economic choices are the right ones, because we create jobs. In this way, we are reducing our deficits in a sustainable manner and making sure that we pass on to the generations that follow us a country whose economic development will be used to finance social protections. We courageously take our responsibilities to reform pensions and to ensure health care today and tomorrow. That's the course we're going to take. The agreement of will between the four parties is solid. It has been unambiguously reaffirmed in the last few hours. We will look to the future with confidence and maintaining the conviction that the path that is being followed is the only one that is likely to offer useful economic and therefore social prospects. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u17	Colleagues, even if you applaud for three hours, you still do not believe that you are working in a serious way outside. That's what makes me the most of it. You don't even seem to know how you've come forward in the last few weeks. You do not seem to realise how disappointed our citizens are when they see that all the efforts that have been made day after day have still failed to ensure that the budget is in balance. You don't seem to understand that. Prime Minister, you are avoiding the most difficult issues. Mr Verherstraeten, as a loyal soldier of this majority, has been very creative in his words: we have adapted the budget to reality. I think this is a first in parliamentary history. Mr Verherstraeten, this budget result does not come from anywhere. It is the real result of a policy that invests too much in profits and too little in people. That is the real result of a policy that does not support the demand side of our economy. That is the real result of a policy that invests too little in the future. One final point: the Prime Minister did not mention the added value tax, the fair contributions of the greatest assets. I am looking at the Liberal colleagues. I am looking at the N-VA colleagues who seem to continue to defend the fact that in this country labour is being taxed. They're gonna keep defending that. I will tell you, Mr Dewael and Mr De Roover, do so. Take that call for justice, broad in society, as an opportunity because there is as much as possible in this country. This can be done before 2019. Otherwise, this confrontation with the electorate will not be a pleasant thing for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u18	Prime Minister, I congratulate you. You have managed to be applauded by the majority on your reforms. It's exceptional. On the other hand, if you are going to vote for your report with the pensioners who have to work longer, with the unemployed who are excluded, with the sick for whom health care costs more, with the workers who see their purchasing power diminish, then Prime Minister, I think you will have more difficulty getting applauded. You tell us that purchasing power has increased in Belgium. However, an international study shows that purchasing power has increased in all but one EU country. Guess which one! Belgium is the only country where purchasing power has not increased. It decreased by 1 per cent. I will keep the study at your disposal, if you wish. On the other hand, BEL20 dividends increased by 22%. That's your economic reforms, your recovery! These are the effects of your revival! It is to enrich capital a little more, all at the cost of a budgetary deficit that is continuing. If you cut the budget deficit to reduce austerity for workers, the sick, the pensioners, the unemployed, okay! No, I don't! It's to make extra gifts, to ensure this 22% growth, return to BEL20 companies. Prime Minister, I think there is a need for a serious change of course, and in order to do so, I urge you to go to the richest 1%. The N-VA says you should not touch the middle class. Okay! Let's not touch the middle class. Let's look at the richest 1% who have just surpassed a new record. 1% of the population now owns 450 billion euros! Don't you think there's a way to get a few billion in this accumulation of capital?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u19	Mr. Chairman, when I listened to Mr. Verherstraeten, the CD&V group leader, I finally understood why the priests considered it necessary to receive confessions of sins in confessionals! Nothing is more pathetic and humiliating than public confessions. Mr Verherstraeten was subjected to this exercise! It is true that the CD&V had to accept the Pax Romana imposed on it by the N-VA and Mr. Verherstraeten had to admit it today. Prime Minister, you have not responded in any way to the reason for postponing the budget balance in 2019! You have not answered in any way because, despite your repeated incantations that we hear week after week and your formulas prepared by your communicators on the appointments of economic success, there are data that will not escape you! You are today, whether you like it or not, in terms of the performance of the euro area and the European Union, and in terms of economic growth and job creation. That's why you can't keep up with the budgetary perspectives that you announced and that you were teasing about at the beginning of the legislature. The false-likes fall, your failures sound like the glamour of your promises!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u20	Prime Minister, you make me feel like you're already alive! Every week, or almost every week, you talk to us about your determination, your confidence, but that's not enough! It is no longer enough to make big statements in this rostrum every Thursday about the credibility and confidence of your government. Clearly, the tear in your government is much deeper than this facade patch suggests. Nor is it enough to constantly repeat your one hundred and five thousand jobs. Firstly, because you are clearly less good in terms of job growth than you see on the rest of the European scene and, secondly, because Belgium remains the record-highest in terms of labour costs. So many elements that quickly went into the trap in your remarks. You'll need a lot more! Much more than yesterday's major com' plan, much more than the three com' plans planned in Val Duchesse. Actions, concrete actions, whether in the areas of employment, national investment plans, ISOC, the mobilization of savings, fairer taxation or the budget for mobility, will be needed. We give you an appointment on these matters!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u21	Prime Minister, despite economic growth, your budgetary results are mainly due to the high economic growth of our main trading partners, Germany and the Netherlands. Despite that, your budgetary results are as poor as those of the Di Rupo government. That is the reality, Mr Verherstraeten. In the meantime, as with your predecessors, Prime Minister, all the government parties seem to believe that it is much easier to tax than to use resources more cheaply. I wonder how you will explain this to the man and the woman in the street who will have to pay the bill for it and who will not have the opportunity to increase their budget deficits. You choose cowardly, Prime Minister, for the path of least resistance, but you will soon find that this is a very steep road towards abyss. Economic and social cohesion can only be put right if it is accompanied by a thorough institutional reform. That is an analysis that the N-VA shared with us until before the elections, but after the turn of Bracke comes the slalom of lies and empty promises. Unfortunately, that was all very predictable. After all, it is a hopeless thing to get state finances in order within the Belgian framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the opposition's fellow Members more specifically. If Europe is asking for budgetary discipline, you are calling for it to be antisocial. If this government shifts the budget balance for a year, you'll be screaming murder and fire. What an inconsistency! Mr Maingain, adapting budgets and accounts to changing economic conditions or changing regulation is of all times, even when you were in the government between 2007 and 2011 and provided a State Secretary who was responsible. I never heard you say anything about that back then. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just said the word'reality'. I have the impression that some people are struggling with reality. I am thinking of purchasing power: by 2020 more than EUR 4 billion in cost reductions. I am thinking of the welfare envelope: almost EUR 2 billion. I am thinking of professional costs, working bonuses, additional contributions for the self-employed: more than EUR 7 billion additional purchasing power by the end of the legislative term. There is more than EUR 4 billion for competitiveness. The result is tens of thousands of jobs. That is the reality to which we are adapting. We are building on social progress and economic prosperity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u23	Prime Minister, thank you for your concrete commitment to linking a new set of structural reforms to the budget. The structural reforms are plentifully listed by both you and Mr Verherstraeten, Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Dewael. The results are ahead and these are results to tell you. That is also what we see in the budget. By the end of 2018, the deficit will be 0.2 %. How long has that been? That was over ten years ago. This has been the case at a time of high economic growth, in which the economy boomed enormously and there was hardly any ageing of the population. That's how long it's been. Today we are in a different reality. Mr Calvo, you referred to the credibility of the budget. Well, I dare you. If you find it so shameful that the budget balance will be postponed in 2018, what savings would you like to impose in 2018? What savings do you want to achieve, so that you would achieve a balance in 2018? I see it stays quiet in your corner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u24	An added value tax!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u25	Indeed, Mrs Temmerman, when it comes to more taxes, the call from your group and from the Green Group is very loud, then the call is not large enough. However, when it comes to savings, it stays silent. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u26	Mr President, we voted for a tax shift and made it very clear: an effect in 2016, the following in 2018 and 2019, at the tax level; 2016, 2018 and 2020 at the social level. We can give an appointment to low and medium wages in January 2018 to see an increase in purchasing power equivalent to four times an index jump. For all of this, Prime Minister, you reassure us, always with the objective of achieving a balanced budget at the end of this Parliament. We must continue the work and, above all, with regard to the quarrels that occupy our colleagues, let them know, as a political adversary told me when I started my political career, that "it is the shock of ideas that comes out of the light". It comes out, Prime Minister, and you are the guardian of it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u27	Prime Minister, your answer reassures me. It is good to hear that the government will not only continue on this path, but will move further to finalise structural reforms, which should lead to sustainable growth. There, economic and social progress will strengthen each other effectively. In addition, I would like to stress that job creation is crucial but it is equally important to get the jobs filled out as well. The government must therefore continue to make full efforts to support and guide the target groups that are more difficult to take the step towards the labour market. Finally, this is a very difficult challenge, and I believe that we all agree on it. I would therefore like to call on everyone, the political parties, the civil society organisations and, indeed, the trade unions, to take a constructive approach to this and to participate in it, because in the end it will benefit us all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u28	Prime Minister, the country does not need a "reframer", it needs a prime minister who decides, takes responsibility, and works for the unity of the country. Since you mentioned Mrs. Demir, let's talk about it. When Mrs Demir, who is supposedly in charge of equal opportunities, compares our Muslim fellow citizens with "electoral cattle" - I say cattle - she makes derogatory statements that are both abhorrent and inadmissible! She did not apologize for this, which is also unacceptable. You had to demand his resignation, you didn't. In doing so, you have dishonored the entire government. As far as the independents are concerned, you have criticized the previous government. I will pass on your friendships to Mrs Laruelle, who was in charge of this matter under the previous government. Thank you for her, Prime Minister! On the budgetary front, a lot has been said. In short, your austerity policy, in addition to causing widespread social degradation, leads to a devastating failure. That is the reality, Prime Minister. You are clinging to the statements of the Commission, which advises you to pursue the austerity policy. Tell yourself, once and for all, that counselors are not the payers, especially when payers are the workers and the households, Prime Minister. Change policy, take measures of social justice and tax justice, instead of stubbornly sending the bill to the public! Also ask your ministers to work in the interests of the common interest, instead of spending their time insulting or, worse, insulting the people!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u29	Prime Minister, I would like to hear about the challenges you want to face in the coming months. The only problem is that people outside and we still have difficulty believing in it. We're not really convinced. If you want to implement these reforms, you need a strong government, in which they stand side by side and say together that they are going for it. You will understand, together with many, why we doubt it. Mr Verherstraeten, you have come up here with your list, but have you perhaps deliberately forgotten the list of invoicing increases you have made? Didn't you deliberately list it? Didn't everyone have to pay extra so that a budget would be balanced with fair taxes at the end of the journey, in which everyone would contribute? Prime Minister, the only question I and many of us had with me was when the added value tax was introduced. You haven't even had the guts to answer that. We very much regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a German Social Democrat once said that today's profits are tomorrow's investments and the jobs of the day after tomorrow. That was someone on the left, but he had an eye for that economic law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u31	You must quote correctly!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u32	Mr Van der Maelen, according to the OECD, we are the most taxed country so far. (Protests from Mrs Temmerman) In the various areas of taxation, Mrs Temmerman, we play at the top.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u33	No, no...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u34	I have always said that the left side will not be satisfied until we are champions of everything, both in the taxation of persons, capital tax and real estate tax. If we are numero uno everywhere, then the left side will be satisfied. We also have the most progressive system in our country. This means that the strongest shoulders in our country also bear the heavy burden. I tell you in peace that more taxes have never created a job. If you continue to swear, you will find the Flemish liberals on your way. We'll fit in. In the most heavily taxed country in the world, we have to move towards less taxes. More equitable taxation should be a lower tax. I want to be very clear on that point. Everything I have seen so far about added value taxes, under the heading of envy taxes, is unacceptable to us. That won't pass. Some people might say they're breaking down the door. Well, for us, that door is closed. There's a lock on it. That door won't open. We want to talk about support measures for the economy, but more taxes, a heavier tax, does not belong to us, let us be clear. Yesterday it was, today it is, tomorrow it will be no different. (Conversation on the banks)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u35	(Protests from Mr Calvo)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u36	Mr Calvo, we will not start again, will we? You can only have the floor on the order of business. Just about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u37	I didn't want to open a lawsuit. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u38	No, you don't have the floor now. I see that Mr Hedebouw is now asking to speak, but we will not reopen the matter. You can interpeal. You can ask the following questions. You can use all the parliamentary means, but we will simply have respect for those who come up with the following questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u39	Prime Minister, turning his thumb seven times before tweeting is useless, as are your recommendations to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, as well as the indignation of NGOs, members of the judiciary and democrats in this country. After airing it as a hunter of Africans, after tweeting on the conditions of reception at Maximilian Park and the WTC, after his comments on the government of judges, who were frontally attacking the judiciary, after his outrageous statements about Médecins Sans Frontières and Amnesty International, Mr. Francken is now trying to poll the nausea. In the Middle East, who should be saved first? This is the question that Mr. Franken is asking in substance to those who follow his Facebook page. As if the application of international law was suddenly suspended from a plebiscite. As if there was a hierarchy to be established between good and bad refugees, according to their ideological convictions. As if the chemical weapons of a heinous regime were asking for the name of a god before falling on children, women or men. Finally, as if some lives were worth more than others. Prime Minister, do you once again cover the maneuvers of your Secretary of State? Do you think, as he suggests, that a hierarchy must be established between the refugee candidates according to their philosophical convictions? Otherwise, will you finally take sanctions against him, to put a definitive end to his exits which damage the image and life of our country as a whole, on our territory? Because these messages don't come from anyone. I would point out that, from the beginning of this Parliament, Mr Franken paid tribute to this ideology of rejection of the other by his presence at the tribute paid to a Nazi collaborator. Before the holidays, I taxed your attitude of compulsive silence. I hope that today it is the voice of a deep attachment to democratic values that I will hear. I hope that the sense of solidarity still weighs in this country. That a life is worth a life, whether in Belgium or the Middle East. That you today condemn before this House, Prime Minister, the inacceptable one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u40	Prime Minister, we will again talk about a member of your government who is a multi-recidivist. He conducted a survey to determine whether it was better to save a Muslim refugee than a Christian refugee. This is simply unacceptable and heinous! We have the chance to live in 2017. You have the one to be Prime Minister in 2017. Suppose you were in 1938. Your Secretary of State would have wondered if, after the events of the Night of Cristal, it was necessary to launch a poll to determine whether the Belgian population should save Jews, homosexuals, Gypsies, socialists or communists - and in what order. Is it better to save a Gypsy than a Jew? In the context of an international crisis, such as the Syrian and Iraqi crisis, are lives saved according to religion? This 1938 poll, which never existed, would have been disgusting and absurd. The one of 2017 is filthy and absurd. Fortunately, Belgium has signed and ratified numerous international conventions guaranteeing the right to asylum, but also punishing acts of discrimination. Einstein said, "The world will not be destroyed by those who do evil, but by those who watch them without doing anything." My question will be simple, Prime Minister, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put the points on the Is. At no time, under any circumstances, in any way, is it a matter of expressing discrimination or stigmatization. On the contrary, we must take into account, as the European Parliament and the House have wished, resolutions calling for a government to fully assume its responsibilities to protect, as we do, the most vulnerable people - including religious minorities in the Middle East. That is the meaning of the action that is being taken by this government. Each time, I hear words that question, question, interpret, modify certain messages. When there are things to say, as was the case with statements concerning Médecins Sans Frontières, I have done without any ambiguity. In this case, I would like to reiterate that this Government is fully fulfilling its international and moral obligations. I would like to reiterate that in the area of asylum and migration, we have seen the need for a policy that is both firm but humane, as we do, so that we can assume responsibility when it comes to doing so. Finally, the facts count much more than some discourses that attempt to distort reality. This government has granted five times more humanitarian visas than the previous legislature. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u42	Prime Minister, for several weeks, we have been here at your striptease. Every week, you undress a little more to save your partners, to save Mr. Franken. We can live with it. What bothers me a little more, as a parliamentarian, is that you are undressing democracy. You just intervened for two minutes and at no time, either in a comma or in a silence, you did not condemn Mr. Franken's nauseating poll. You're embarrassing me! This country, in the 1960s, welcomed my parents as political refugees. Obviously, the Prime Minister of the time had another suit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u43	Prime Minister, you have not answered this question, namely, what do you think of this disgusting survey? The fact is that today, a member of your government is making his electoral butter on refugees to get into the polls of the favorite personalities of the Flemish and Belgians. It's a fact. A few months ago, the Liberal colleagues yelled at me because I said it was starting to feel like the 1930s. It stinks like the '30s!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to Mr Dallemagne!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u45	Mr President, if my dear colleagues allow me to speak, as you do very kindly, I will ask the Prime Minister my question. Mr Prime Minister, we are pleased to have with us today your minister in charge of this thorny overflight of Brussels and its surroundings. Yesterday, a consultation meeting was held. We saw your minister coming out of this meeting a little bit. Of course, he spoke a little reassuringly saying that we had advanced, but he was the only one to deliver this speech. In reality, progress has not been made. This cannot be denied to the opposition parties. This cannot be denied to the regions that have killed themselves in all languages for weeks while Mr. Bellot was trying to make a painful move. On the other hand, once again, personalities of your majority have tacked, weakened your minister's position. I regret, in particular, what my colleague Van Rompuy has said, a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of I knew him a little more affable and a little more "round" on this issue a few weeks ago, here in Parliament, looking - it seems - for solutions. But it's not. And then there has been an absolutely extraordinary creativity on the part of the N-VA, which has been, through its mayor of Steenokkerzeel, to the point of imagining that the German-speaking Community could initiate a procedure in conflict of interest for the overflight around Brussels. As creativity, as a distortion of law and justice, it deserves a pinnacle. Prime Minister, my question is simple. Is there a start to the proposal, after two and a half years of government, after the many times that your ministers have come to tell us that it takes time? Is there a direction, are there political lines, are there options, is there a strategy to deal with this thorny issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u46	Mr President, Prime Minister, here we are again about Zaventem and jobs. Mrs Wouters and I explained this morning in De Morgen how the Flemish Government can invoke a third and a fourth conflict of interest. And what do I read in The Morning? The Flemish Government responds to this and says that this is legally feasible, yes, we knew that too, but not politically, because the MR would not allow that. Hence my first question to you, Prime Minister. Do you have a problem with the Flemish Government applying the legislation to conflicts of interest? Secondly, the Flemish Government must not put your government at risk, but within your own government, a Secretary of State, who has not yet committed any policy action, may put your government at risk. Where's the logic? The Flemish Government should not apply the law in order not to endanger your government, but within your own government everything is apparently possible. Let's also talk about jobs, jobs, jobs, as you always like to say. You just said more than 3 000. Admit it, be fair. Wouldn't it be a good idea for the Flemish Government to invoke a third and a fourth conflict of interest? Then Minister Bellot will gain time. At the time of BHV, didn't everything work? Mr Dallemagne, you think it is silly of the German-speaking Community. What did you do at the time of BHV? You have also called on the German-speaking Community. So what that mayor suggested isn't that crazy. By the way, I would like to address you and the Flemish ministers in the federal government. I see that everyone except Minister Peeters, who is a fixed value, has run away. You can also invoke a conflict of interest in the federal government. I wonder if the Flemish excellence in the federal government will dare to put that on the table. To sum up, it seems that doing something for Flanders cannot be done. Doing something for Zaventem, apparently it can't. Neither the Flemish government nor the excellence within the federal government dare to do that. Prime Minister, my questions to you are as follows. Do you have a problem with Flanders applying the law? Wouldn't it really suit you if there were a third and a fourth conflict of interest? Will you be more effective than the fears of the Flemish Government's Community standstill and possibly call for a conflict of interest at federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u47	Mr President, Prime Minister, it was in the autumn of 2015 that, with a number of mayors from the Rand, we received the then Minister from your party, Mrs Galant, in the Rand. She then made a solemn promise that a law would be tabled in Parliament before the end of 2015 to ensure the necessary stability in the area of air traffic. Mr Prime Minister, I am sure you have also heard that a few months ago, both employers' and employees' organisations together sounded the alarm with illustrations of investments and jobs that are at risk as a result of this uncertainty. Employers and employees together we do not experience this so We have heard that yesterday the Consultative Committee met. I understand from the media that Brussels will delay the collection of fines and that, according to the Brussels Government, the Bellot proposal is a very good slope. Prime Minister, my questions are as follows. What is the precise outcome of the Consultation Committee? Has Brussels actually decided not to collect or is it just about a little number? What exactly does the Bellot proposal mean? Is this a government proposal? When will we see the proposal here in Parliament? In other words, when will we see the Stability Act, which should provide the necessary socio-economic security in one of the most important segments of our economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u48	Colleagues, indeed, as everyone has pointed out, the issue of this issue, in which the imperatives of economic development, employment and respect for the environment for residents must be so much supported, has been complex for years. It can be seen how difficult it is to agree to ensure stability and security on this issue. There is a procedure in accordance with the Constitution, special laws, in which a government, the one in Brussels, decides to apply a regulation, which has never been legally called into question. Or, in any case, when it has been, it has not given rise to a challenge to its legal character and a conflict of interest is triggered by a Region. Within this framework, the federal government with the ministers concerned is making the best efforts to bring together views on difficult issues as closely as possible. Three points were presented to the Consultation Committee. There are three important points of substance on which we are trying to make further progress. Firstly, there is the question of technological evolution. We, the federal ministers, believe that it is possible to improve the situation in part on the basis of technological developments. That is a slope for which it should be possible to achieve a consensus within a reasonable period of time. This could be part of the solution. Some, of course not the complete solution. Secondly, there is the most difficult problem, the route. You know very well that there are legal proceedings. They are waiting for new court decisions, exactly about the route discussed, which will come in a few weeks or months. On the issue of roads, we have fruitful exchanges of data with the Brussels and Flemish regions. We received, some ten days ago, data on the precise location of sonometers in the Brussels region to analyse the consequences of the application of the Brussels "noise" decree on existing roads and on other roads which could possibly be envisaged in the context of a negotiated solution for this case. The question of 6 a.m.-7 a.m., which was strongly highlighted for Brussels, arouses reactions on the part of the airport and the airlines, and on which everyone agreed to say: "We are going to get together around the table, with the airlines, with the airport, to see in the short, medium and long term what are the capacities to change situations by taking into account this imperative of economic development, employment and living conditions." In summary, Mr Dallemagne, I would also like to point out that, following the conciliation committee, after many political and preparatory meetings had made it possible to take stock of the situation, Brussels considered it legitimate to have its own assessment of the exchanges. I learned a few hours ago that Brussels announced two important things: a constructive willingness to continue negotiations on the basis of the tracks on which we are working for the moment – that is positive, I welcome it; Flanders and Wallonia have given the same message – and a negotiation on fines, a matter that should not be minimized. I do not think that in the short term the debate concerns conflicts of interest. Brussels explained that it would take several months before fines could actually be collected. This last point also provides an answer and gives the capacity, with the necessary serenity, to continue to negotiate on this difficult subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u49	Prime Minister, I want to be constructive on a sensitive issue. You have highlighted several important points. First of all, the Brussels Region is in its right. This has been confirmed on numerous occasions by all courts and tribunals, and this has still been confirmed by the Court of Appeal, in the case of East Brussels and Runway 02. You have to hear it. It is only justice; it is only fairness; it is only right. This is what all the residents are looking for, including the Bruxellois who are no less riparian than the others. The second thing you stressed was the constructive side of the Brussels Region. What we want, what the Brussels people want, what all the locals want, Mr Bonte, is that we do not only work in Vilvoorde at the expense of the safety and quality of life of the Brussels people. We want the issues to be dealt with in the same way! I never hear you on these issues of safety, quality of life, health. You're telling us about Vilvoorde's jobs! We want jobs in Vilvoorde, Brussels and quality of life everywhere! This seems extremely important to us! Prime Minister, it is true that the application of the law and the fines was not the atomic bomb that some had predicted. There is indeed time between the decision and the perception. Right will prevail! I hope that the Federal State will also prevail! In the meantime, courts and tribunals will continue to uphold law and justice in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u50	Mr Prime Minister, you have said two things, one that disappoints me very much and one that pleases me a bit. The airlines need legal certainty. I beg your pardon? We will wait for the outcome of the pending legal proceedings and Brussels will not yet collect, but Brussels will issue the fines. So you are actually putting these airlines in a situation of legal uncertainty. What I am pleased about is that you say that there are procedures and conflicts of interest, and that as a region that operates, the Region is putting them into effect. We have now explained to Mr Bourgeois of the Flemish Government how to deal with that third and fourth conflict of interest. What are you waiting for to do it anyway? Mr Bourgeois is afraid to do so. Mr Peeters, when you were Prime Minister, you would have dared. You would have. Well, Mr Bourgeois, he wouldn't dare. Prime Minister, you will now be organising thematic ministerial councils such as the Purple High Days. Mr Verhofstadt did the same. Then that also failed, so that will probably be your fate as well. However, if you wish to organise a thematic study day on conflicts of interest, Mrs Wouters and I will come to explain to you how the Flemish Government can invoke not only a third and a fourth conflict of interest, but even a fifth, a sixth and so on into the infinite conflict of interest against those Brussels noise standards. That's perfect. Once a Prime Minister said that five minutes of political courage is enough. Well, Mr Bourgeois, one minute of political courage is enough. We'll see if you have any.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u51	Mr Prime Minister, for the sake of clarity, I am particularly in favour here, and not for the first time, of a clear and stable framework that preserves both the viability and the economic strength of our airport, which is essential both in terms of employment for Brusselsers and Walen and Flemings. I listened very carefully, Prime Minister, but my conclusion is that I am hearing the same thing I heard six years ago, five years ago and three years ago, namely discussions on technological innovations, discussions on fleet renewal, discussions on new routes. Prime Minister, I asked you whether we could know the content of the Bellot plan, which Brussels seems to be very positive about. I fear that this Bellot plan is not generally supported even in your majority. I fear that we are still far from achieving the stability we need to achieve. I have the impression, Prime Minister, that, as in the previous debate, some of us sometimes open a door, but others push that door very hard. I'll make you a prediction, Prime Minister. If there is no agreement on this, it seems to me to be a real blessing for those who wish to go to the elections with a Community agenda. I hope this isn't what you're being charged with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u52	Mr Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the National Bank has communicated something important about housing loans so that many young couples dream of a home, one of the cornerstones of our society and of progress. It is now clear that the National Bank is saying that attention must be paid for the sake of financial stability. It could be that it would have to oblige banks to apply for ownership of the housing loan up to 20%. That could have huge consequences. The National Bank does not impose a direct obligation on banks, but obliges them to set aside sufficient capital, which could ultimately put the consumer, the borrower of the loan, at risk in the sense that he will have to recoup 20% at the start of the loan. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, can the government conduct a mitigating policy on this matter? Is an action plan possible for this purpose? Can the government, in particular, make a contribution to social construction loans, most of which are loans of 100%?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bogaert, you are right to raise the issue of young people who want to buy a house and have to take out a loan for it. They must be able to do so now and in the future. Your question is addressed to both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy. I looked at the matter with Mr Van Overtveldt, who unfortunately could not be here. Everyone assumes that young people should also be able to take out a loan. How do we do that if parents or friends aren't capital enough to help? Mr Van Overtveldt's first point is the concern for the stability of the Belgian financial system in which the National Bank has the important task of ensuring stability, also in the future. In particular, this concerns the sector of residential real estate. You know that in 2013, the National Bank for the first time took a macro-prudential measure to strengthen banks and ensure that banks do not get into trouble. I will not be too technical, but it is a cyclical approach: the National Bank regularly looks at this. It has also created a risk analysis, in which, for example, the continuity and trendary increase in household debt are monitored and in which the high valuation of Belgian residential real estate in a low interest rate environment is one of the elements. Secondly, recent analyses of the financial stability risk presented by the IMF and the European institutions call for particular attention to be paid to developments in the Belgian residential real estate market. In this respect, we must be very careful not to take hasty or ill-thought-out measures. Finally, on the basis of all these elements, the National Bank decided in 2016 to replace its current macro-prudential measure as of next month with a new measure which would add to a number of elements. During the morning I contacted my Flemish colleague Bart Tommelein, who had announced in the media that I would like to do something about this. In response to your question, Mr Bogaert, with the Minister of Finance, on the basis of the input we have requested from our Flemish colleague, we will look at how we can deal with this problem in practice. However, it must be very clear that the prudential supervision of banks by the National Bank is a very important element and that we cannot take measures that will jeopardise the stability of our banking system. In concrete terms, we will discuss this further over the next few days and weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u54	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your clear answer and for recognising the possible problem. I look forward to the concrete achievements in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I would like to take stock with you of the follow-up to be given to the referendum held last Sunday in Turkey and in other European countries, the result of which (51.4%) confirms the decision taken last January by the Turkish Parliament. Of course, it is regrettable that the Turkish people have chosen to restrict freedoms for fewer democratic instruments. It is also regrettable that, even in Europe, some people are making a voluntary choice to restrict freedoms for their compatriots in Turkey. But the question is not there. I would like, Mr Minister, to take stock of the consequences of this referendum aimed at establishing a presidential system in Turkey, extending the powers of President Erdogan. Many questions arise. First of all, what are the results of your informal meeting with your European colleagues on 18 April 2017. What about the possible future referendums that could be set up by Turkey, by Erdogan, on the death penalty, on negotiations with the European Union? From this point of view, how is it still compatible for Turkey today to fulfil its obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights and the Copenhagen criteria to which Turkey has also subscribed? Finally, Mr Minister, you have made it very clear that if the red line is crossed, it will mean no longer the freezing of negotiations but simply the cessation of negotiations for accession to the European Union. What would then be the economic consequences for Turkey? And to what extent could not all the agreements between the European Union and Turkey, I very much fear, handicap the economic situation of that country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u56	Mr President, Minister, the political developments in Turkey, a member of the Council of Europe, are worrying. I have already had the opportunity to ask you many times about the massive arrests of opponents, journalists and intellectuals. It was in this heavy context that a referendum was held on 16 April to amend the Constitution to replace the current parliamentary system with a presidential regime. It was with 51.3% of the vote that the yes won. Of course, Turkey is a sovereign State. Therefore, we can only take note of the results of the constitutional referendum held there this Sunday. But we cannot ignore two essential facts. Many Turks said no, and this was not the overwhelming plebiscite hoped for by Mr Erdogan, especially since unfortunately the campaign for no had to be carried out largely under the cloak. Secondly, the Erdogan regime cannot ignore the heavy reservations of international observers regarding the conditions of the Turkish referendum. Mr Minister, how do you see our Belgian diplomacy evolving towards Turkey in the days and months ahead, particularly on the issues of freedom of expression, the rule of law and, of course, the possible restoration of the death penalty in that country? How will our country, both in the European Union and in the Council of Europe, continue its bilateral and multilateral relations with that State, while the Turkish President accused the European countries of having a hostile attitude towards Turkey and promised that Ankara would hold Brussels to account after the referendum?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, Mr Blanchart, I am not going to go back to the debate we have already had on developments in Turkey since the failed coup d'état last summer, with the arrests and restrictions on the rights and freedoms that have taken place. With regard to the referendum itself, the result was indeed tight, with just over 51 per cent, but that is the rule of a referendum. We are experiencing the situation in Brexit after a referendum, the result of which was tight in Britain. We must respect this kind of situation. As regards the procedure, an observation mission was carried out by the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (OSCE/ODIHR) and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The preliminary report is very critical of how the balance between those who favour and oppose the decisions that were proposed by the vote could be expressed, but also of the methods used. We must wait until the final report of this mission, before drawing conclusions about the validity of this referendum and see what action is being taken. For the moment, in Turkey, all appeals are rejected and the procedure is towards the implementation of the conclusions of this referendum. In substance, this referendum will have to be translated into constitutional changes. We will, within the European Union and the Council of Europe, check the way in which this transformation will take place and decide how we should react. Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe and must respect the values and principles that we wish to implement. We're going to do this job. I hope that the representatives of your Assembly in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will also do this work. As regards the further development of the process, it is first of all the process towards the European Union. As I have already said, the negotiations are currently frozen with Turkey. And, I repeat, the reintroduction of the death penalty is a red line. It is not even possible to envisage any negotiation on a European process for Turkey. The red line is clearly drawn. It is the choice of the Turkish authorities to revive themselves in this debate, but if we were to have a referendum leading to changes in Turkey reintroducing the death penalty, that would be the end of the whole process. We won't cross that red line. Last, even if this red line is crossed, we will have to continue the dialogue with Turkey, as we do with many other states around Europe or around the world. In particular, there are two topics where dialogue is important. You know, despite all the criticisms, the dialogue that will continue on migration. And we also have a dialogue on security and terrorism. I can confirm to you that, on a regular basis, we exchange information with Turkey and we receive in particular information from Turkey about foreign fighters returning from Syria or Iraq through Turkey. This is the only way to have a number of guarantees that we will be able to apprehend these people when they return to Belgium. Let us not be mistaken: what is happening in Turkey will have various consequences. I have been very clear about the European process. We must be very clear at the Council of Europe. But dialogue should also be initiated. Mr President, I want to conclude by telling you that the development of recent months in Turkey is particularly worrying. A number of strong diets are in place, sometimes at our doorstep. You know the difficulties of dialogue with Russia today. Now there is this situation in Turkey. The European Union will have to make great progress if it is to respond very strongly to these authoritarian regimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u58	Mr Minister, I had indeed forgotten to mention in my question the OSCE investigation into the fact that instruments were not made available only to supporters of the no in the referendum. This raises further questions. I fully agree with you on the absolute need for us in Europe – in the face of the transformations of certain regimes, such as Turkey, whose democratic efforts might seem encouraging ten or fifteen years ago – to strengthen us, to continue to develop much stronger integration processes, including in defence and international policy. This is increasingly an absolute necessity for us in the face of Russia and Turkey. My colleague, Mr Thiéry, who is our member in the General Assembly of the Council of Europe, shares the view that we stand here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u59	Mr President, Minister, I sincerely believe that, on this issue, we must defend a unanimous position. We must, of course, condemn the return of the death penalty. And I welcome your statements in this regard. It is also necessary to maintain the necessary dialogue, but also to call on Turkey, a member of the Council of Europe – as I will do next week in Strasbourg – to respect the duties assigned to any member of the Council, or in other forums where Turkey is also a candidate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u60	Mr President, Minister, of course we are concerned about the political situation in Turkey. Of course, human rights violations are unacceptable. Of course, it is not appropriate for foreign states to abuse nationality law and exert pressure on their nationals to import political conflicts into our country. Of course, we must do everything we can to oppose it. However, Minister, I found that some of our fellow Members suggested, and it seemed so simple, to abolish double nationality and that all the problems would have been resolved as it were. However, Minister, that is impossible for us to achieve, and I would ask you to confirm that. I may be getting a little personal right now, but nationality is also personal. We can remember the file on Bianca Hanskens. She was Belgian, born in Belgium from a Belgian father and mother and her mother had a double nationality. Because of her studies, a further training, she entered Colombian territory and thus.. our nationality legislation laid down when the loss of Belgian nationality when one acquired another nationality............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. She was also told that her son had never been Belgian. Minister, many Belgians abroad, who have acquired a dual nationality, are worried today. Many colleagues in the Chamber today have a dual nationality and cannot renounce, even if they so wish, their second nationality. I have a double question. Are you going to re-introduce the double nationality ban, with all the consequences? In other words, are you going to throw away the baby with the bath water? Do you have a view of the number of states, and I am most interested in this, which, through national law, tries to influence our Belgian society?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, as you know, each state is sovereign in deciding who acquires its nationality and how it is lost. This principle leads to a number of factual restrictions. Belgium, for example, cannot provide that a citizen becoming a Belgian automatically loses his original nationality, but Belgium may provide that a Belgian who acquires a foreign nationality loses his Belgian nationality. There are also a number of treaty and human rights restrictions in the area where a State has the power to determine nationality. Each state must comply with its international obligations. Statelessness is therefore not possible. A state cannot deprive a person of his only nationality. The principle of equality must also be respected. In 2006 we explicitly opted to allow a Belgian to have multiple nationalities, in particular to facilitate the integration of Belgians abroad and foreigners in Belgium. If Belgium were to insist that only those who lose their original nationality could become Belgian, then a category of people who are well integrated could never become Belgian, precisely because the State of the other nationality would not allow this other nationality to be lost voluntarily. Conversely, Belgians abroad would not be able to obtain foreign nationality without losing the Belgian. From this point of view, it is difficult, in my view, to implement the abolition of dual nationality for Belgians abroad, precisely because this would prevent them from being integrated into those other countries. Conversely, the same applies to people of foreign origin for their integration into Belgium. I don't think it's obvious, I would even say that it's not at all evident to turn the clock back to the state that existed before 2006. We live in a European context, where many countries allow double nationality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u62	Minister, I had hoped for reasonableness and thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u63	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u64	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Peter Dedecker, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Mrs Poncelet asked for the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u65	Mr. Speaker, this bill temporarily refrains from regulating the content of sound broadcasters' broadcasts. Indeed, this law exempts them from the prohibition of broadcasting programmes inciting hatred based on race, sex, religion or nationality and many other prohibitions or obligations beneficial to other types of media. Although a number of these obligations are covered by ordinary law, the Minister considers it useful to impose additional provisions on other media that go beyond ordinary law. We do not understand why sound broadcasters should not be subject to these same obligations. For these reasons, we will abstain, even if we agree with a whole series of provisions found in this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u66	Mr President, this is part of the media legislation that is still federal because BIPT is competent to do so. We bring the legislation into line with the Flemish and French-speaking media law. With regard to Mrs Poncelet's comment, the common law does indeed apply to that. There are actually enough elements to deal with hateful communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u67	Mrs. Poncelet, would you like to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u68	Mr President, I have nothing to add. I thank the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u69	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u70	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2242/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2242/4) The draft law has 69 articles. The bill has 69 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u71	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u72	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur, I am referring to the report. You will read that the draft law was adopted unanimously in committee. However, on behalf of my group, I would like to explain this briefly because this is a very important draft law. Support for combined and distributed transport has long been seen by our group as a very important policy instrument. It is a policy tool that actually works. It reduces traffic jams. It improves road safety. It reduces the impact of transport on the environment. It also makes a big difference for companies engaged in logistics policy, with the transport of containers among others. In order to ensure that a company chooses to transport by rail instead of by road, it must have legal certainty and be able to invest in the longer term rather than in the short term. This legal certainty is provided by this draft law. It allows companies to choose in the longer term to cut down their fleet and choose the railway. It is an important instrument in which combined and distributed transport is supported. It is a good thing that the draft law will be dealt with over several years. During the previous administrative periods, it has always been decided to do so in the short term, extensions per six months, resulting in a lack of legal certainty. That is why our group supports the Minister in his draft, which further supports combined and distributed transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u74	There are no other speakers. The Minister does not have to answer either, because this was a repeat of a well-known position. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u75	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2346/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2346/3) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "draft law on aid for distributed transport for the period 2017-2020 and extending the aid for combined transport for the period 2017-2020'. L'intitulé en néerlandais a été modifié par la commission and "draft law on aid for distributed transport for the period 2017-2020 and extending the aid for combined transport for the period 2017-2020'. The draft law contains 18 articles. The bill has 18 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u77	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Griet Smaers, Leen Dierick, Nahima Lanjri, Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u78	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1509/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1509/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u79	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u80	There are three speakers on the list. We respect the order of the parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a controversial matter - unlike the subjects discussed during the current debates. This theme is a consensus. Others will follow this afternoon. So we're not in the same tone. This motion for a resolution has been the subject of much convergence in the committee. We have all started from a finding, which is that of the vulnerability of the newspaper trade sector. In support of this, we have observed a steady decline in the number of bookstores in our country. This finding is not new. I must recall that, under the previous parliamentary term, on the initiative of our colleague Mrs Vanheste, a similar motion for a resolution had also been adopted unanimously. The text had led to the establishment of an independent press broadcaster commission, bringing together publishers, distributors and broadcasters, under the aegis of the SPF Économie. It is a forum for dialogue and consultation with all the actors concerned, the results of which are rather mixed. We can, of course, consider that they have led to certain agreements. On the other hand, however, we also had to find that there were many rather futile discussions and that the concrete production of actions for the sector was relatively insufficient. Nevertheless, Mrs Smaers and other colleagues had the merit of relaunching the debate and finally allowing it to be updated. We are well aware that the answer to the problem is not simple and that no one has found a miracle recipe. Otherwise, I think we would have stated it. In any case, we have reopened the discussion. The Committee on the Economy has debated this subject at least five times, including one hearing session and another exchange of views with Mr Peeters, Minister for the Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u82	Having said that, Mrs Smaers, when I see the original text and when I see the text finally adopted, after having been amended at the last minute, I think that the basic text may have been somewhat defeated, since the original text clearly and unambiguously defended the social role of the small merchants of newspapers who allow the distribution of an independent written press, that is, the press which has the means to seek information rather than comment on it. The amendments have therefore changed the scope of the text somewhat. We approved the latter, but, in my view, they have reduced its ambition. In other words, it is a slightly more semi-figue, half-raisin text that wants to keep the goat and the cabbage with much broader intentions for everyone to find their own account, but also too imprecise to tackle the real issues. For example, in the amended text, the online press is now placed on an equal footing with the print press. To want to help everyone in the same way, we no longer help anyone effectively. However, as we know and have said, the situation is critical, as the hearings we have followed in committee have reminded us. The number of bookstores continues to decline. This is also the case for the daily print press, which has to deal with the massive online dissemination of sometimes approximate information with sources whose independence can sometimes be doubted. As has been said, the issue of booksellers is also intimately linked to the state of health of the press. The less press, the more difficult it is. This is, in any case, one of the aspects of the problem. We must therefore try to see the latter as a whole. We had a lot of discussions about the role of the National Lottery. The motion for a resolution rightly highlights its role in this matter. It should be recalled that this institution has been able to develop mainly thanks to the network of small bookstores distributed throughout the country. And even today, it is thanks to them that the National Lottery achieves the bulk of a constantly increasing turnover. Here too interests converge. In the face of an offer of online gambling that sometimes tries to circumvent legislation to the detriment of the health of the players, newspaper merchants allow a channelling of games in a framework that does not encourage excessive behavior. Based on these findings, one can wonder about the investment policy of the National Lottery which tends to favour its online activities at the expense of the physical network. Apart from this economic context, I would like to point out that newspaper merchants are still one of the few places where our fellow citizens meet regardless of their origin or social class. This is an element not to be underestimated in a society increasingly marked by division. In conclusion, the Socialist Group will support this motion for a resolution. Despite the fact that the amendments doubtless reinforce its original intention, the proposal retains the merit of focusing our attention on a situation that goes beyond economic issues. The main issue is that our democratic society needs an independent press that is strong and relayed through as wide a distribution network as possible. Minister Peeters is not here, but Parliament, through this resolution, makes recommendations to the government. We have opened up avenues and, of course, expect them to be translated into concrete actions in favour of the booksellers of our country. The legislation also provides that we will be able to make an evaluation of it every year. That's a good thing. We won't rest on our laurels and we'll come back to the issue. That is why we will support the text of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the worrying situation of independent daily merchants led to the presentation of this proposal for a resolution in 2015. There is a whole evolution in the file in the area of attention to and support of the daily merchant. First, in the previous legislature, there was the installation of an independent daily trade commission at the Federal Public Service Economy. However, we received a lot of reports that there was no work in that committee, as we had hoped. The situation for the daily merchants has got worse. In 2010 there were still 3 376 newspaper dealers in our country, while their number fell to only 2 461 in mid-2016. The hearings held in committee following the presentation and examination of the proposal have shown us that the sector is under great pressure today. The sector organisations talked about the decline in sales, the very small margins, so there are no reserves for new investments, and the workload, which takes a long time. The sector is also affected by increasing competition across the traditional range of press, tobacco and gambling, the main activities of the daily merchant. With the 2015 resolution proposal, we have tried to highlight the sector and the problems it faces. In this way, we want to give oxygen and energy to that sector. In 2014, an independent daily trade consultation body was established at the FPS Economy. Several actors, including newspaper dealers, are part of it, as are publishers and distributors. These are important partners for the daily trade. The committee's hearings showed, firstly, that the consultative body has only limited results, because the partners in the consultative body do not include concrete commitments. The consultations should therefore continue to be actively supported. In the motion for a resolution, we also call for a revision of the committee's covenant and internal rules, so that it becomes a more result-oriented committee alongside a consultation platform, in which each Member has clear and result-oriented commitments. Secondly, the hearings also showed that there is no level playing field for the delivery of newspapers and magazines. As mentioned in our initial text, bpost receives federal support in the form of grants as a service of general economic interest for the delivery of newspapers to subscribers at home. That's what the daily merchants see as unfair. It is therefore very important that the motion for a resolution calls for consideration to be given to how a level playing field can be created for both the home delivery to the subscriber and the sale in the daily newspaper trade of newspapers and newspapers, so that daily dealers no longer have to experience unfair competition. We also call for greater transparency in the federal support for the written press. We ask that this federal support be evaluated for the media, including new digital media, and that we consider how to organise media-neutral and forward-looking support. The daily trade must indeed focus on future-oriented activities. The hearings also addressed the question of whether the gambling sales committee that the daily dealers receive is still realistic. According to the Minister responsible for the National Lottery, the amounts could be regarded as realistic. The margins for the daily newspaper dealer were adjusted, in accordance with a new management agreement with the National Lottery. Nevertheless, the federal government must keep an eye on the evolution of the situation of daily trade. It must also continue to draw the attention of the National Lottery to this, whenever the situation of a daily merchant would be adversely affected. Finally, after the recent takeover of AMP by Bpost, it must be ensured that the almost monopoly position in distribution, which we have also raised, will not give rise to abuse of power in relation to the daily merchants. The Belgian Competition Authority, to which the complaint was made by the sector, must play an important role in that file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u84	Chairperson: Siegfried Bracke, Chair. Colleagues, independent daily dealers play an important and valuable role in our economic and social fabric, to which our colleague and chairman of the Committee on Business has also referred. They form an important meeting point in many village centres. They form an important link in the pluralism of the press. They also help channel the sale of games of chance. Beyond the digital channels, it remains important to maintain a broad sales network for the promotion and accessibility of newspapers, magazines and lottery products to a wide audience. That is why we want to take an important step forward for the sector. We will indeed have an annual exchange of views and reports from the Committee on Independent Daily Commerce, as indicated by the chairman of the committee, in order to assess whether results-oriented progress is being made with the support of the daily trade sector. I am pleased that our proposal for a resolution after the discussion and the hearings in committee was finally adopted unanimously. Mr President-in-Office of the Commission, you are right. The text's been tampered with. Initially, a number of questions to the federal government were formulated more strongly. That's my opinion, too. I insist that the initial text was in line with our wishes. But we had to do something about it in order for the majority to be able to support the proposal. The text has therefore been amended on a number of points. I am pleased that we have still managed to retain an important part of the proposal, including the question of support. With a more result-oriented committee, we can enforce support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u85	I would first like to say that I was also the rapporteur for this motion for a resolution. There's been a mistake by the chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u86	Yes, I plead guilty, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u87	No problem. Thank you. A great deal has already been said by Mr Delizée and Mr Smaers about this motion for a resolution. I won't repeat myself. We have discussed the newspaper sector on several occasions in the Committee on Business. Despite the extensive debates in committee on the continuing difficulties of the daily merchants, the problem is unfortunately far from being resolved. Parliament has been looking at the sector of independent daily merchants for a long time. When discussing my previous motion for a resolution on the distribution of newspapers and periodicals, in 2013, we concluded that the sector had to diversify in order to compensate for the losses it suffers from falling sales of newspapers and magazines. However, the question is whether this is feasible. Tobacco products, which are now being sold in newspapers, are becoming more expensive, and consumers are increasingly being driven away from smoking. So that sale will also stagnate. The games of chance, which are also sold by newspaper dealers, threaten to go a bit along the same path as the newspapers and weekly newspapers. For many, the gambling committees are no longer as high as they used to be, due to new contracts. Moreover, there is now more competition from online gambling. The question arises as to whether other products can be sold. But not every store has the ability and space to sell other products. In short, my fellow Members, reduce the chance of survival of the newspaper shop by the day. However, I remain convinced that we should not underestimate the social value of these shops. The committee adopted the motion for a resolution unanimously. I think we all know that it will not be the ultimate solution, but will help every bit. It is important that we continue to support and monitor the sector and, as we have supplemented in the motion for a resolution, discuss its evolution and evaluation in committee every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, this has been repeated in this House and in committee: three newspaper shops are currently closing every week. This is a very important figure, and it is significant of the resolution that is being adopted today for our Assembly. I thank my colleagues for taking the initiative to do so. This is interesting, especially since most of them are booksellers, who are independent traders and who, caught in the turn of economic life and the rise of digitisation and the Internet, find themselves somewhat in difficulty. The diversification of the business for booksellers offers avenues for the future and would allow the profession to be reinvigorated through new outreach activities, such as post points or parcel depots. However, we stressed that there was a need to create room for reserve creation for them. They can be used to invest in order to allow their bookstore activity to be repositioned in the face of changes in the economy. In any case, we welcome the cooperation of the value chain that is taking place at the moment. The aim is to enable each link to thrive in this sector. Leaving the margin to the other, beyond the logic of maximizing our own profit, is one of the points on which we must focus our attention, centered on people: as a cdH, I am particularly sensitive to it. The State, on the other hand, has the role of ensuring that power relations are not used to nibble the margins of other actors and that relations between economic actors are sustainable. This resolution also includes a request to the Government, beyond the reporting that has been mentioned. It is a question of verifying that the consultation within the Committee on Independent Press Broadcasters can work, even if, in three years, things have been difficult and there has been no major progress. This dialogue, perhaps with suggestions, must therefore be boosted in order to achieve this. It is therefore crucial that the government take this motion for a resolution seriously and commit itself to solving the problems in the next two years. It is not just a matter of facilitating cooperation, but of taking an active part in it and demonstrating tangible results. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that newspaper shops are neighbourhood shops par excellence. It is the future of retail trade that is behind it and that we are talking about now. It will be necessary to see how to do this for other sectors. I really hope, as far as I am concerned, that the concertation will also bear fruit and be a source of inspiration. We must continue to believe that there should be room for consultation, discussion and no further recourse to the regulatory option. In any case, it is clear that we will support the proposal. But whether things are clear, it is not for us to support the promotion of sales of tobacco products or games of chance beyond what is done. We believe, however, in the ability of press distributors and booksellers to control, more accurately, the sale of these products, in particular to prevent a number of minors from accessing them. Here too, let us remember the social role of booksellers in this difficult business of selling newspapers, selling press and other products that can be put on sale to develop their business!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will not support this motion for a resolution. Indeed, these motions for resolutions by the majority are beginning to do well, even if they have a good feeling. Indeed, there is a very serious problem for newspaper shops today. It's catastrophic. We repeated it. This is catastrophic, but it is the kind of resolution proposed by the majority, where we come with a lot of good intentions but where, in the end, the government's policy completely ignores these resolutions. It's hypocrisy that's starting to do right. In fact, this majority is a specialist in this type of exercise. It is of such interest to colleagues in the majority that, of the three co-authors of the proposal, I see only one in this House. It's telling you how passionate they are about the subject! I give you an example of the fact that this government's policy is contrary to what is called for in this resolution. Since the beginning of this month, the commission that newspaper dealers receive on lottery products has been revised downwards. The National Lottery explains that this commission has increased from 6% to 4.5%, but that they recover part thanks to other mechanisms, other pricing. This may be true for some, but the problem is that the weakest newspaper merchants - segments 6 and 7 out of the seven in the Lottery and most threatened by bankruptcy - are the ones who will lose the most with this new pricing of the National Lottery. I have also asked Minister Wilmès, in charge of the National Lottery, a question on this subject. Indeed, this problem is very real for newspaper merchants in segments 6 and 7. They are already on the brink of the abyss and the National Lottery, under the jurisdiction of this government, pushes them to be sure that they fall into it. We wish to denounce this hypocrisy by abstaining from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u90	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u91	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u92	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u93	Mr President, since the report has been the subject of consensus and a unanimous vote, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u94	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u95	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2311/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2311/4) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u96	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u97	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Anne Dedry, Ine Somers, Els Van Hoof, Rita Bellens, Kattrin Jadin, Muriel Gerkens, Georges Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u98	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2171/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2171/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u99	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately Minister De Croo is not here. The Belgian Food Security Fund has always worked very well and has had excellent evaluations in the past. It has given extra attention to food security after the famine in Ethiopia in 1983, and this has been a very serious achievement because it has also saved lives. However, Minister De Croo decided in June 2015 with the support of the entire government to pull the plug. The Minister considered that there was no need for separate food security programmes. A new holistic, integrated approach to development cooperation and the integration of agriculture and food security would make this fund superfluous. Many Members of the European Parliament, as well as the NGO sector, were very concerned about the situation. That is why, as Chairman of the Fund and as a constructive member of the opposition, I started to talk to all Members of Parliament, regardless of whether they belonged to the majority or to the opposition, especially to see if we could share the concern about the priority of food security and find a basis for it. That is how the resolution now before us came about. In this resolution, we are trying to anchor the importance of food security as one of the key pillars of development cooperation. This resolution contains ten recommendations that are before us today. Firstly, align the agricultural strategy papers with food security. It is very important that this should be done without weakening the level of ambition of the 2014 strategy paper of the Belgian Food Security Fund. Secondly, guarantee the agreed budgets for the current country programmes. Thirdly, EUR 17.5 million from the National Lottery ear tags for food security. Fourthly, 15% of the budget for development cooperation is devoted to agriculture and food security. Fifth, pay particular attention to gender within the food security theme. Sixthly, proposals for cooperation research between the Chamber, NGOs and local parliaments. Seventh, mainstreaming the multi-actor approach within the Minister's integrated new policy. Eighth, an evaluation of this new policy approach in 2018 by the special evaluator. Ninth, transparent reporting and monitoring by Parliament for achieving SDG 2 objectives, including food security and agriculture. Tenth, special attention to small-scale, family farming as a spearhead in food security. For me and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, it is particularly important that the resources of the National Lottery should be earmarked for food security, that transparent reporting should be made to Parliament and that 15% of the budget for development cooperation should continue to go to food security and agriculture. To reach this resolution, the working group has come a long way. There was consultation with the NGO sector, with the minister, with the cabinet, with the various MEPs and so on. For Ecolo/Green, there was absolutely no need for any savings in development cooperation. My fellow Members from the majority, and I am looking in particular at Mrs Somers van de Open Vld and Mrs Van Hoof of CD&V, agreed with me, in the sense that the extinct scenario for the Belgian Food Security Fund should not mean that less resources would go to food security. I would also like to thank Mrs Pehlivan of the sp.a. for her constructive contribution through amendments, as well as Mrs Grovonius of the PS, in order to move, together with her group, from an outspoken opposition to a abstention. In the end, the majority and a large part of the opposition agreed to adopt this resolution in committee by 12 votes in favour with two abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not fail to question the Minister on this matter repeatedly. This resolution also serves this purpose. I am convinced that food security through diversified and small-scale family farming must be the cornerstone of Belgian policy against hunger. This cornerstone must be strong enough so that the home of food security does not fall apart. Without good foundations, we cannot develop a strong and forward-looking policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 March the Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, Stephen O'Brien, told the Security Council that the world was facing the worst humanitarian crisis since the end of the Second World War, with more than 20 million people suffering from hunger and famine. Nigeria, Yemen, South Sudan and Somalia are the four countries directly affected by this crisis. Emergency aid is needed to support the people of these countries and to avoid a disaster. This is all the more necessary because hunger is not only rampant in these four countries. According to a new global report on food crises dated 31 March 2017, nearly 108 million people around the world were facing a situation of severe food insecurity in 2016, requiring emergency assistance, a dramatic increase of 35% compared to the 80 million people registered in 2015. In its January 25, 2017 Newsletter, the Famine Early Warning System Network notes that the magnitude and severity of the need to deal with a risk of famine in early 2017 is an unprecedented situation in the last decade. Indeed, given severe droughts, persistent conflicts, poverty and economic instability, several tens of millions of people in 45 countries are at risk of requiring emergency food aid this year. Many of these countries are partners of Belgian Cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, the great famines are back and this is, unfortunately, probably only a beginning. How can we understand the decision of Minister De Croo to abolish the Belgian Food Security Fund? As a reminder, this Fund was created in 1983 – at the time, it was the Belgian Survival Fund – to respond to the general indignation at famines in the Horn of Africa and the Sahel. In this context, the motion for a resolution that we are discussing this afternoon seems even more incoherent. Indeed, what the majority is proposing today is no more or less to transform our assembly into a curator of the Belgian Food Security Fund, a curator who is obviously trying to engulf things following the unilateral and non-concerted decision to liquidate the Fund made by the Minister for Development Cooperation and his chief of staff. For yes, this is a unilateral decision, which is not based on any consultation and, above all, on any evaluation. This was not intended by the House, by the administration responsible for it, by some members of the majority, or, above all, by actors in the field and NGOs. The Minister's decision is as shocking as it is incomprehensible. It is all the more shocking as we learned it through its Chief of Staff, at the turn of an informal meeting of a parliamentary working group. How dare you, without any consultation, decide to abolish this fund created and led by Parliament? Why suddenly remove this fund in which the federal government has invested over the years more than 500 million euros in more than 150 effective food security programmes? Why not, on the contrary, value the expertise of its administration and the actors working in this field? We have asked these questions many times, but they never found an answer, including when we discussed the program law in which this deletion was concealed. Today, this removal is effective. What is this resolution still for? She comes when it's all over. We have always said this: for the PS Group, the only resolution and recommendation on the road was simple: the maintenance of the Belgian Food Security Fund. The latter is indispensable by virtue of its expertise and, above all, because it focused, in particular from a budgetary point of view, on the issue of food security, which for us is central to development policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u102	We're in a democracy. Everyone has the right to have his or her opinion, even when you're not right. However, I cannot agree to hear that it seems to be a coup de force, a rape, a kidnapping or I don't know what else is so violent. Especially since this was decided on the basis of reports showing that the fragmentation was weakening our action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u103	Mr Flahaux, show me the slightest assessment that the Belgian Food Security Fund was not doing an effective and efficient job! I challenge you to do it. There aren't any!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u104	You didn't listen to what I said!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u105	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u106	I talked about the crumbling that shows it's a weakening. This does not mean that the Fund itself was not doing effective work. But combined with other means, it makes it possible to do even more efficient work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u107	Show me a single report that confirms exactly what you're saying! There aren't any! I'm so sorry. This is your vision; you want to concentrate the means. My choice would have been different.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u108	In the context of the Committee on External Relations, I would be pleased to provide you with documents, Mrs Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u109	Mr President, I would also like to make a small nuance here. Mrs Grovonius, you pretend that the abolition of this fund was purely a decision of Minister De Croo, without any consultation. I would like to point out that a Council of Ministers took place on Friday 2 October 2015, where the entire government decided to abolish 90% of organic funds by 31 December 2015. This includes the Food Security Fund. Then the working party finally took action and announced that a number of specific issues would be identified with regard to food security. It is therefore decided within the government that all organic funds, with the exception of those subsidised by European funds, which do not belong to them, were abolished by 31 December 2015. For the Belgian Food Security Fund, it was decided to maintain the reserves and we received an additional year before this fund was abolished. So if you are pretending to be a decision of one person, who was pushed down the throat of everyone, then you are gradually exaggerating.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u110	Thank you very much for your intervention, which shows that it was not the same motives that prompted the MR, the Open Vld or other parties to make this decision. Clearly, Mr Flahaux, it was not reports drawn up by serious organisations that motivated the decision that was in question, but simply a budgetary choice by this government to abolish the specific funds. Thank you very much for this very useful little clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u111	Mr President, let us be serious: the Open VLD and the MR say the same thing here. The MR has just said that the funds must be used efficiently. The results and operation of the Fund have been examined at all times, including by the Minister, with a great deal of positivism. He even called for ways of working from other projects to be taken over. So let us be absolutely clear: if we have a pot of resources, then they must be used in the most efficient way, and that is not because of fragmentation. In that respect, I may disagree with you, but for the rest, what you are proclaiming is actually just a lie.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u112	What you consider a lie, I consider it a difference of view. Of course we are not going to agree. We have been discussing the removal of the Belgian Food Security Fund several times. I understand, of course, that you want to defend your minister. That is entirely logical and honourable on your part. However, excuse me for having a slightly more objective look at the decision that was taken without any evaluation. You indicate that this will be more effective, while no evaluation demonstrates this. This is your choice, assume it and stop trying to justify it when it is completely unjustifiable. I wanted to make it clear that we can always improve things. We requested that the Belgian Food Security Fund be maintained. This could be done through an evaluation and reform of certain elements of the Fund's operations. It is for this reason that we abstained in committee on this text and that we will repeat this vote in plenary. I would like to welcome the initiative and willingness of the former President of the Belgian Food Security Fund to compromise. The mere fact that this text is co-signed by the minister's party nevertheless illustrates the soft compromise that my group did not want to support. A soft compromise, unfortunately, is further accentuated by a number of amendments by the majority which have been adopted in committee. The CD&V, in co-signing this text, no doubt hopes, once again, to put a little balm at the heart. I would like to use the words of my colleague CD&V Els Van Hoof, member of the late Belgian Food Safety Fund: "The 2014 survey indicates that the Belgian Food Safety Fund's working method is not contested, but rather that it is unique and adds value to improving food security. On the other hand, some things could be improved with regard to the harmonization and coordination of the FBSA. However, the idea of integrating the Fund into bilateral cooperation is premature. It does not rely on an assessment of this issue and is not provided for in the government agreement. In addition, the FBSA Group is responsible for formulating strategic guidelines." She then referred to Article 7: "The Working Group shall make recommendations with regard to the strategic guidelines of the Belgian Food Safety Fund on the basis of the priorities of the various aspects of Belgium's external policy and on the basis of the evaluation reports, the various projects and programmes and the development of the international situation in the field of food security". I note that, again, there are differences of opinion among the majority, which reinforce my conviction that the decision was indeed taken in the name of purely budgetary considerations. We can't be clearer. However, the CD&V also passed the programme law and, today, this text, which honours the effective abolition of the Fund. I would like to point out that this was in no way intended by civil society, as was demonstrated by the last meeting of the parliamentary working group. The text endorses the Minister's promises. In short, after-sales service is provided, without any guarantee for the future. From now on, nothing will really allow us to control the focus on the fight against food insecurity. Yet our country has so far served as a pioneer in this field. However, I would like to stress the Minister's commitment to reserve resources from the National Lottery for food security and to ensure, at the very least, that the projects under way can succeed. Similarly, I would like to commend our Government's rapid response to the urgent famine that is raging, as well as its support for call 1212. However, as I say and repeat, my group does not wish to participate in this masquerade that the authors of this text have staged on behalf of the minister. Rather than vote on this resolution, which no longer has any purpose, no interest, I repeat a request that I have already made in our committee to relaunch a debate on several elements, in particular on the strategic note on agriculture which is being finalized and on which we have still not been able to discuss by making our contribution. However, the elements will be of major importance, particularly if a particular focus is to be placed on family farming. On the other hand, I would like us to be able to discuss ways and means that Belgium is ready to mobilise to help eradicate hunger by 2030. I would also like us to be able to discuss the structural causes of famines and how to respond to them in a coherent way. Finally, I propose that a debate be held on the modalities that will be put in place by Minister De Croo with a view to allocating 15% of the cooperation budget to agriculture and food security. Ladies and gentlemen, the magnitude of the current crisis deserves better and more than the unnecessary discussions that we have had for weeks or even months on this motion for a resolution which, in the end, only endorses a decision that has already been taken for a long time. It is time that we finally got to work to find structural responses to food security. I hope that this appeal can be heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this resolution puts an end to the Belgian Food Security Fund, which we regret because it was a good platform to tackle the problem of hunger in the world. Unfortunately, this problem is still very topical. We believe that the fund was an important instrument in the Belgian contribution to the fight against hunger in the world and therefore needed more support instead of extinction. It is a pity that there is not even use of the evaluation system. I am counting on the Minister, he is absent, but I hope that the message will reach him, to ensure that the evaluation is carried out as stated in this resolution. We voted against the abolition of the Belgian Food Security Fund. We discussed this at length in December. We have decided on our position. The majority and the chairman of the fund then made a motion for a resolution. We have then tabled amendments which have been accepted. A number of important points for us were included. The resolution underlines the continuing importance of agriculture in Belgian development cooperation and the funds it needs. The guarantee that 15% of the budget would be spent on agriculture was important to us and supported our approval, as was the transfer of EUR 17.5 million from the National Food Security Lottery. We will ensure that these guarantees are respected in the coming years. Just because we consider this fund and this theme to be so important, we have tabled the amendments to ensure that it is retained for us all the most important point of the fund, namely the Belgian support for small-scale family farming in the South. On this point, the Minister and myself, among other things, differ greatly. According to the Minister, this support for small-scale agriculture is a romantic or nostalgic reflex. The Minister mainly believes in investments in the agro-industry with private capital to solve hunger in the world. However, there are also other views on what would be the best strategy against hunger. Belgian organisations such as Brotherly Parts, international organisations such as Oxfam, and also UN agencies such as FAO - the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation - do not believe that we will solve it only with large-scale agriculture and the private sector. Support for small-scale family farming, according to organisations such as FAO, is crucial to eradicate hunger. This kind of farming helps millions of people worldwide to survive. What helps them is to tackle the hunger at the root. Organisations such as Brotherly Delen and Oxfam stress the importance of investing in adapted technologies such as agroecology. The financing of agro-ecology, among other things, can give small-scale family farming and livestock farming the resilience and prosperity that will make the difference to stop hunger worldwide. I ask the Minister to take the expertise of an organisation such as the FAO and of people on the ground seriously and also to take their advice to heart. We must not stare blindly at ourselves in this important matter, and we must continue to strive for a consensus as this resolution seeks. If even the most cautious predictions of the effects of climate change are fulfilled, it will have a huge global impact on agriculture and livestock farming. What is happening now in countries such as Somalia and Sudan is just a preview of what the world is facing over the next few decades, if everything remains the same. No one denies that the conflicts in these countries are a factor in the current famine. However, the UN stresses that the exceptionally long drought has turned a bad situation into a dramatic situation. It's not my habit to be doomed. However, if we fail to eradicate hunger from the world in a sustainable way, we in Europe will not be able to protect ourselves from its consequences. As Mr Grovonius said, the Minister will shortly present a new strategy paper on agriculture in Belgian development cooperation. Well, that note should not be less ambitious than what is now in our resolution. That brings me to my final point. The Belgian Food Security Fund provided MEPs with the opportunity to see and participate in the way in which Belgian Development Cooperation approaches agriculture. As the fund disappears, it is appropriate for the Minister to come to the committee to discuss his new Agricultural Strategy Paper. In this way, MEPs remain involved in this important theme and the spirit of working together and seeking consensus across party boundaries continues on a global theme. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that I will be supported not only by the opposition but also by the majority of my fellow Members in order to convince the Minister to present his new strategy paper to the committee so that we, as Members of Parliament, can also have a say in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u114	Mr President, what is happening in Somalia and South Sudan is putting our noses on the facts, as Mr Pehlivan said. There is still a lot of famine in the world and a lot of efforts still need to be made to achieve the sustainable development objectives by 2030. Food security is still an element in breaking the poverty spiral. That is why we cannot be enthusiastic about abolishing a budget fund for food security. That is why we are calling in this resolution for a number of guarantees on food security. As a group, we will be very vigilant about this. I do not think we should throw the child away with the bath water. The Food Security Fund was a good example of integrated cooperation between civil society, executive and legislative authorities and local partners. I believe that we need to evaluate this in the projects that still have to be evaluated. The lessons we draw from this need to be taken into account in the new food security memorandum of the Minister responsible. The abolition of the fund is certainly not a safe way to stop dealing with food security. On the contrary, we commit ourselves in this resolution to spending 15% of the development budget on food security. As a Parliament, we will be very vigilant about this. This means that the EUR 17,5 million that were in the Fund must be spent permanently on food security. A lot of expertise has been built up in the Food Security Fund. The multi-actor approach must certainly be held back, even in the future, in development cooperation policy. Another element that is important and which will also have to be stopped is Parliament's involvement. Typical of the Food Security Fund was the dialogue between civil society, Parliament and the legislative power on development cooperation. We are increasingly finding that less is being made of development cooperation in Parliament. I believe that this resolution clearly calls for Parliament to be permanently involved in this issue. We want to strengthen parliaments in developing countries. Today it is very clear that development policy always forgets an actor, namely the parliaments. However, they form the basis of democracy and sustainable development. I believe it is our duty to work with these parliaments on the issues they want so that we can strengthen them. This is specifically requested in this resolution. I naturally support Mr Pehlivan's request that the strategy paper on agriculture and food security be discussed in Parliament. It will soon be ready and we can make it clear once again that hunger is a grave injustice, that there is a great deal of suffering behind it, even today, in Africa. I hope that the resolution will help to strengthen food security policy further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u115	Mr President, as Mr Somers has just said, the abolition of the Belgian Food Security Fund is part of the abolition of a number of organic funds. This will stop the fund, not by a unilateral decision of Minister De Croo, as Mr Grovonius pointed out. However, we are very pleased that the activities of the Belgian Food Security Fund are integrated into the overall policy of Belgian development cooperation. In our view, that has a great advantage. As Mr Flahaux has already pointed out, it reduces fragmentation and allows for a more coherent policy. At the same time, our group would like to see the integration of these activities into Belgian development cooperation used to make a thorough assessment of the Fund's activities and to learn how to do so. In the end, this is the intention of the Fund to achieve results in the field and to learn from the best practices it has had in the past. The target date that we have put forward for this is 2019. We are absolutely in favour of maintaining this, Minister. We are also pleased that the 15% is retained for agricultural policy in Belgian development cooperation and that you continue to pay attention to local entrepreneurship. Our group is in favour of the controlled extinction of the Fund's ongoing projects. We compare this with the exit strategy put forward by the partner countries which are no longer in the list of partner countries. We fully support the resolution and thank the initiator, Mrs Dedry, for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during this Parliament, I was no longer a member of the Monitoring Working Group of the Food Security Fund. It is my colleague Anne Dedry who has had the presidency, but ever since I was a Member of Parliament, I have been involved in this fund. In 1999, it was Claudine Drion, a colleague from Ecolo, who chaired what was then called the Belgian Survival Fund. If I intervene today, it is, on the one hand, to regret, of course, the abolition of this Belgian Survival Fund, which has become the Food Security Fund, and, on the other hand, to thank the parliamentarians who drafted this resolution, as an attempt to organise control over the observance of missions, the monitoring of the objectives of defending a family agriculture, the monitoring of missions to combat famine and food insecurity. I would like to point out that the transformation of the Belgian Survival Fund, now the Food Security Fund, before disappearing, has evolved. In 1983, the Federal Parliament, with a view to helping the people of the Sahel suffering from famine, wanted to intervene in a specific and complementary way to Development Cooperation. This is where the fund was structured, where financing was organised through the National Lottery, and where laws worth ten years were passed, devoting ten billion Belgian francs to it in ten years. I hope that this fund and this way of working will be respected by Development Cooperation. I hear arguments such as "fighting against fragmentation", "assembling all means, that's how one is most effective". It is a reading, but it was not ours at the outset, and I am still not convinced that this will happen in this way and that the specific nature of this fund will be respected. I hope that, in reading the report, the members of the Committee on External Relations, who follow up on matters of cooperation, will be attentive to the need to work in a targeted manner towards the people who suffer most from food insecurity. Under the previous government, the scope has already been narrowed in relation to the original project, since it was stated: "No longer will it be possible to be covered by the Belgian Food Security Fund than those countries which are on the list of countries in respect of which there is cooperation". This was the first restriction that took place and led to this. You have to remember that. Therefore, the poorest and most food-insecure populations were targeted. The other feature is that they are long-term projects. The Belgian Food Security Fund allowed for renewable five-year projects. We could thus act ten years with a population, with local stakeholders (families, local authorities, local NGOs, bilateral organizations, etc.). And that is, of course, what made it possible to achieve, at some point, the objectives of people's appropriation of how to proceed and change the governance of local entities in these regions. This could be assessed. If it sets itself the same objectives for combating food insecurity and for family and sustainable agriculture, Development Cooperation will have to respect this. That is why a resolution was useful. Another important element is that this working group brought together different actors around the same project. Among the actors involved were, of course, the parliamentarians who formed the basis of the process and the mechanism, but also representatives of Belgian NGOs, bilateral organisations, the administration of cooperation and the cabinet of the minister. This allowed for real reflexive work in identifying the projects that were to be supported, evaluating the evolution of these projects, and finally concluding the program goals to see the improvements. I would like to draw your attention to a general approach. The mistake that was probably made in the follow-up working group of the Food Security Fund is to dare the evaluation. We dared in 2008 to say: "We have put in place a system that really shows its performance, but at the same time we are facing countries around the world, where people are dying of hunger, where we are accompanying a whole series of programmes. No doubt there is a way to do even better. Let's take a look at how we did it. Are our methods adequate? What can be improved?" We have done this evaluation with all the actors. There was Unicef, universities, administrations, NGOs and a splendid report came out. By daring to assess and dare to launch avenues for improvement of work, I realize that, in the political context of the government of the time and that of the present government, we are becoming fragile; we become prey to some people who want to remove the means or change the lines of work. That's what's going on with Unia today! Unia dares to ask for an assessment of her perception by the population. This evaluation report shows that it is perceived more specifically on certain themes and then comes to attack Unia by saying that it is not a good agency, because it deals only with discrimination against foreign persons and does not deal sufficiently with other discriminations. This is exactly the same approach of attack and frailty when you dare to evaluate. This is what happened to the Belgian Food Security Fund. All the work that had been undertaken to help those populations was being undermined by a Government which had decided, for budgetary reasons, to abolish certain funds, no longer follow the same objectives and policies and had decided to remove a tool that had proved its worth. I thank the sponsors of this resolution, which sets itself the objective of controlling the allocation of at least 15 per cent of the budget to food security, policies supporting family farming and long-term cooperation strategies. A resolution must be followed: it is therefore up to parliamentarians to question ministers on a regular basis about its implementation. Finally, under the previous government, Belgian agricultural organizations and trade unions were added to the list of development cooperation partners. As a result, the situation has been changed because, as a result of a policy to help the weakest populations with associations that teach them to defend their rights against those who want to sell their cattle, make a profit at their expense or take over their land, representatives of the Belgian and Western agricultural trade unions have been introduced, which have seen it rather as an opportunity to defend their influence and activity. The positioning is therefore no longer the same. It is important to ensure this and to include it in the elements to be questioned through the follow-up to this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u117	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u118	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Jan Spooren, Wouter Raskin, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Nahima Lanjri, Stéphanie Thoron, Stefaan Vercamer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u120	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill does not just fall out of the blue. It starts from a general problem, namely that the employment rate of people with disabilities in our country has been very low for years, also in comparison with the other countries in Europe. We are talking both about unemployment, 28% of people with disabilities compared with 9% of other people, and the employment rate, 40.7% is the employment rate for people with disabilities compared with an EU average of 47.3%, in France it is 52%, in Sweden it is 66%. We have been way behind that for years. A second, more specific problem is that the target of 3% employment for people with disabilities in federal public services, which must be one of the solutions to raise that employment rate, has not been met for years. That level's even going down. In 2012 it was still 1.54 %, in 2013 1.51%, in 2014 it fell to 1.39 % and in 2015 it fell even further, to 1.32 %, across all federal government services. What's the cause of that? This has something to do with mentality, a lack of awareness and awareness. But there are also more objective inhibiting factors that play a role in this. The first is that the recruitment of civil servants is increasingly moving towards higher qualifications, because the tasks have become more complex. We are also increasingly seeing this knowledge-based economy in the civil service. The D level, in which many people with disabilities were recruited, is a category that is less and less covered in our civil service system. Strict conditions of diploma are also still required. There are comparative recruitment procedures, which make it difficult for people with disabilities to get through recruitment rounds. We also see that there are more and more retirements in the civil service. There too, when we compare the figures, we notice that there are a lot of retirements, especially in category D, which are not replaced by another category D but by people in categories C, B or A. In general, we also see savings in the civil service. There are generally a little less civil servants. There are therefore fewer people with disabilities who act as civil servants. Another part is also what the hidden officials with disabilities are called. These are people who do have a limitation and could fall within the target of 3%. For the sake of stigmatisation, they dare or do not want to get out as people with disabilities. In this way they are not included in the figures, but they are at work. Sometimes there are also physical factors, such as just mobility. Many civil servants are in Brussels. Especially for people with physical disabilities who live a little further away and who have to get to Brussels, that is a very big problem. So these are a number of objective inhibiting factors. Moreover, there is clearly also a target group which has limitations in terms of employability and unfortunately often also in terms of training. Despite a number of verifiable efforts by different services, the target is thus very far removed. This draft law does not seek to provide a total solution, but rather a piece of the solution, by allowing for the 3% target that is partially outsourced by the federal administrations. They then spend work on tailor-made companies and make this count for achieving the target. Tailor-made firms are companies that specialise in employing people with disabilities, who have the necessary expertise in this area, and which in this way can often provide a solution to the inhibiting factors I have just mentioned. The bill is very simple in itself. It's also optional. It allows 1 % of that 3 % to be outsourced, while it is still charged for achieving the target. How will this be calculated? There are two ways. Either one looks at the number of hours or working days outsourced. Either one looks at the financial values of the contract, which one then converts to VTEs, on the basis of the average wage costs of the public service that makes the outsourcing. We have deliberately entered a maximum of 1% in the legislative proposal, so as to avoid a complete switch to outsourcing work and no longer make any effort to employ people with disabilities directly in the federal administration. We have also made this optional. It is an additional possibility, an additional alternative, to get people with disabilities to work. What is the argument for that? Many of these outsourced tasks are short-term and simple tasks, which are suitable for people at level D or for people with certain limitations. I have already said that these tailor-made companies have specialised guidance, specialized counselors and expertise to work with these people. In this respect, there is also European and Belgian legislation which provides for the possibility of giving priority or even exclusive public contracts to companies specialising in working with people with disabilities. We see in practice that this system is hardly being used. Only 0.02 % of turnover is outsourced to such companies. There is therefore a need to raise awareness and encourage better use of this system and regulation. This measure was included as an objective in the coalition agreement. We have also looked at other countries. France, for example, is a country that often uses this system. Fortunately, we see that it does not lead to a reduction in the direct employment of people with disabilities in public services. It is clearly an en-en-story, something we want to achieve here too. The objective is therefore to achieve, in practice, a net increase in the employment of people with disabilities and to take account of a new economic context, including the context of the civil service and thus to provide a modern solution to it, albeit in part. Is there no risk that this will lead to less direct employment of people with disabilities in these public services? There's definitely a risk. We have discussed this extensively in committee and it is a legitimate concern. That's why the maximum of 1 % is allowed to count. We also provide for the possibility of enclave action. This means that a tailor-made company will physically employ people with disabilities within the public service's location. On a proposal from Mrs Fonck of the opposition, an article was also inserted which evaluates each year how many people with disabilities employ all public services on the one hand and how much they already outsource to tailor-made companies on the other. So we have a zero measurement and can therefore see if that law achieves the objective of achieving net employment, so that it does not become a mere replacement. This reflects in a nutshell the rational and modalities of the law. I would once again like to express my gratitude to all the parties on the basis of a majority and opposition. It was a good example of cooperation across party boundaries and majority and opposition. Not all parties approved this in committee, but most of them, including the opposition. I can only hope that Ecolo-Green will be convinced today to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u122	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think Mr Spooren has summed up the purpose and the terms of the bill before us. Of course, the integration of people with disabilities into the workplace is a challenge for our society. It's a challenge for everyone. It is also an international obligation mentioned in Article 27 of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We believe that public authorities should set an example. The issue of the employment of persons with disabilities in the private sector can of course be discussed. I think our country should do more and better in this area too. But let's start by setting an example at every level of power. This was recalled: since 2007 there has been a quota of 3 per cent of persons with disabilities employed in federal administrations. Unfortunately, for all these years, we have been unable to reach this quota. Mr Spooren, you have explained the objective well; 1% will be assessed specifically. We have discussed all this. That was really one of the conditions. It should not be a way of counting people otherwise. In the long run, these must be additional commitments. We'll pay attention to it. You also indicated in committee that this system is working well in France. It is therefore positive to implement it at our federal level. This can of course also be discussed at regional level. I believe that this already exists in the Walloon Region for public interest organizations. We share the objective. All parties share it. Shades can be made on the modalities. Ultimately, the goal is to improve the proportion of persons with disabilities in the federal public service. We say 3%, but it's a minimum. This could be more, taking into account the reservations that you have mentioned. Some people do not wish to declare themselves disabled. This freedom must be taken into account. Only contracts that will be outsourced from the coming into force of the law will be taken into account in the calculation, and not old contracts. This is not a calculation of existing things. It's about giving something extra. This has been confirmed in committee and has reassured us fully. In committee, we also pointed out that this law does not exempt the federal government from continuing to be proactive in this area. This measure will bring added value, but it may not allow the quota to be reached. It does not exempt us from further efforts. Further efforts are needed, and further initiatives are needed to achieve the objective. I've already talked about the separate evaluation. The evaluation by the National High Council of Persons with Disabilities will also provide us with guidance on the efficiency of the new mechanism in the future, over time. It is not an objective in itself, but an objective of means. I'm finishing with a little break on the news. On Tuesday, we heard the guidance note from the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities. Today we are voting on this bill. We heard the Secretary of State's briefing on the guidance note. We started the debate without concluding it; it is postponed until next week. But we have read that Mrs Demir makes the integration and employment of people with disabilities a priority, which is in itself a good thing. We will see later whether there is a match between good words, deeds and results. In principle, in any case, we can only approve. She tells us that she wants to remove barriers to people with disabilities who want to go to work. I therefore took advantage of the debate which is not over, as you have heard, Mr Spooren, to say that the major demand of the sector, the first obstacle, is what the sector calls "labour price". This is really the demand of the Higher Council and the People with Disabilities. This was timidly announced at the beginning of the legislature by Mrs Sleurs. She would try to make efforts to eliminate, in whole or in part, the price of labor. Finally, two years later, she came to tell us, "I asked the question and I was told no, there is no money." It was a little forgotten. We will see the result here, but we know that the substance of the problem, Mr Spooren, is this 1987 law. It is outdated and contradictory with the introduction of persons with disabilities to work, with its complex system of allowances, the ceilings that are too low, etc. Mrs Demir wrote it at the beginning of her note: there was no financial means. It already limits the efforts it might try to make. So I'm going to ask you to be our interpreter to the Secretary of State and the majority. You know the disability sector, Mr Spooren, so you know it's important. May you be our interpreter to convince colleagues of the majority that we must work on the reform of this law, which is completely outdated, on the issue of labour as well as on other issues. We have to do it. We have a bill. We are open to dialogue and we hope that this issue will be moved forward, again during this Parliament. In any case, we have approved the bill in committee. We share the objectives and have been reassured about the modalities. There will be this annual assessment with people in the sector. Finally, with regard to the guidance note, we are meeting next Wednesday to continue the debate. In conclusion, we support this bill on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we know that 3% of disabled people employed in the public sector have been a line set for years. But our country is struggling to meet that commitment. In view of this, our group agrees with Mr Spooren, who, in committee and here, recalled the importance of being realistic in relation to the difficulty faced by the public services in meeting this quota. This proposal is not intended to provide a definitive solution, but at least has the merit of bringing a stone to the building and marking a step in the right direction by providing more opportunities for suitable work firms to work with federal public services. As has already been pointed out, all opportunities must be seized. It is in this sense that our group has been supporting this issue since its first days, in particular through the voice of our colleague Stephanie Thoron, who is excused and co-signatory of the proposal. We recognize that it is wise to have an objective assessment of the impacts of this legislation. That is why we have also voted in committee on the amendment providing for this assessment, one year after its entry into force, by the National Higher Committee for Persons with Disabilities. You will therefore understand that the MR Group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately you will not convince us to support this bill. Yet I listened to your arguments. The latter do not lead me to reconsider the fundamental criticisms of the Ecolo-Groen Group with regard to the bill under consideration. You say that the text provides a modern solution for people with disabilities to work and work in society. But today, what is a modern solution? It is not to go back to the development of suitable work enterprises, to the sheltered workshops of old. For people with disabilities, a modern solution is a solution that allows them to share the same spaces as others in their work, social life, cultural life, daily life. It is to give them access to places where people with no disabilities work. That is what they are waiting for, and that is what is included in the UN Convention which states that persons with disabilities are included. Indeed, the term integration has been abandoned to be replaced by the term inclusion. What you are proposing is not a solution to the problems you have identified that effectively prevent people with disabilities from working in the private economic and public service. What you bring is a solution that does not provide the answers to the problems you have identified. The decision was made to reduce the number of public servants, thereby automatically reducing the number of persons with disabilities who could work as such. The answer should not be to have more people working in suitable work enterprises. Too few people with disabilities are enrolled in the Selor tests and are able to pass the various stages. At this level, solutions must also be provided to make the Selor tests accessible. On Tuesday, Ms Demir proposed to promote internships allowing the meetings, to test the skills and thus to take a first step. This is a response to a difficulty in accessing work in the public service. It's not to say that we're going to get them to work elsewhere, in specific places. There is a lack of training, let us provide solutions and allow them to train before looking for a job or put in place modules allowing them to combine training and support in the workplace. I find it incredible that we identify the reasons why we cannot meet the targets set for 3% of public service members with disabilities, while at the same time providing solutions that are not adequate to address the problems identified. This does not mean that we are against the intensified use of subcontracting using social clauses. Of course, we support it. However, this should not replace part of the obligation to engage in the public service. Social clauses already exist now. We have passed a law that sets out stricter and more ambitious criteria, in particular for the award of public contracts. There is a desire to strengthen social and environmental clauses. This element can be used in favour of subcontracting. Social clauses may have had to be made mandatory in public procurement by State bodies. We would have increased the use of suitable work enterprises and other enterprises that employ people in difficulty. Again, it is a complementary dynamic, different and parallel to that of quotas in the civil service. And I don't see how to develop outsourcing will stimulate the additional engagement of people with disabilities in the public service. The link will not be made. If it works in other states that use social clauses more than we do, so much the better. We can set ourselves this goal, but it must not replace the obligation of commitment. The only positive element of this proposal, which has been added, is the evaluation after one year by the National High Council of Persons with Disabilities. But what will he evaluate? Will it look at subcontracting and the increasing use of social clauses in public procurement in this area or will it continue to assess the number of persons with disabilities employed in the public service? It is therefore important that both sides be present. When we read their opinions, their questions, their criticisms, we find that their opinion is in line with what I am telling you right now. They are faced with an insoluble situation and with a government that had sworn in 2014 that it would not impose compliance with the 3% since - as I said at the time - the government's declaration, in this case Mr Vandeput's, planned to reduce the 3% obligation by using third-party outsourcing as a suitable work enterprise. This body and the organizations representing persons with disabilities are therefore facing a government that had promised this and, now, a bill that reiterates this promise. Therefore, they can only submit to you criticisms and questions, since they are not at the manoeuvring to direct the real choices. For all these reasons, our group will oppose your bill. At the same time, it will pay particular attention to ensuring that an assessment is carried out and that the administrations comply with the quotas. I remember that we had previously worked on this in the Social Affairs Committee, that we had suggested forcing the administrations to hire on the basis of quotas and that, failing that, it would be impossible for them to recruit other staff. It was, in a way, a matter of forcing them to comply with that obligation. This had been discussed under previous governments, but this had not been followed by any effects. Unfortunately, we must realize that, in the absence of binding powers and accompanying services to support civil servants, administrative directorates and workers with disabilities, we are stagnating and encountering a lack of ambition. We will not support your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u125	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as in committee, we will support this proposal, since any progress in the employment of persons with disabilities in federal public services must be welcomed. Mrs Gerkens, in relation to your remarks, I would like to point out that the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities (NSHRC) considers the measure to be positive in its aim of improving employment in a comprehensive manner by seeking ways other than traditional recruitment. The CSNPH also noted a series of questions and reflections that I find important. It will obviously have to be answered and I will come back to that. As I said on several occasions, there may be perverse effects. The best example is an administration which would reach the quota of 3% and which would already have recourse to subcontracting in suitable work enterprises and which, tomorrow, could integrate this subcontracting into its quota, without even having to justify a reduction in the number of workers with disabilities, which it directly occupies. This is not the case because this type of arrangement can in no way offer public authorities the opportunity to clear their obligations in this area. The public authorities, even more so than all the others, and especially the SPFs, must clearly set an example. In relation to this risk, I have proposed in committee that the situation be monitored and evaluated carefully, by quickly reviewing the figures with the sector and with the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities to put things back in place if these deviances occur. That is to say, the administrations which meet their quotas downwards are not cleared, even though this was not the case and they are using the arguments of the appropriate companies. This point of attention is important to us. In committee, together we found the possibility of locking it in this text that, as I said, we will support. As other colleagues have done, I would like to associate myself with another approach, which is equally important for the employment of people with disabilities. It is the price of work that really remains an employment trap. I would remind colleagues in the majority that this price of labour is sunk in the government agreement and that, despite that, we have not seen anything yet. Clearly, the positions taken by the Secretaries of State are unfortunately not going crescendo but, on the contrary, are declining on this subject. I can therefore only encourage you to see that this important problem, which is a real job trap on the price of work, is resolved. I believe that this is a major key to facilitating the employment of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u126	Mr President, I will make a brief statement saying that DéFI will support this project. We want to support this bill all the more because our agents have recently taken a similar initiative for Brussels municipalities. We look forward to an important step forward in the employment of disabled people in Brussels, where adapted work enterprises already employ some 18 000 people, many of whom are unable to find another job. We also expect a lot from this federal initiative. It would be interesting to make an assessment of this type of approach in the medium term and to check whether further initiatives should be taken. This does not exempt public services from continuing their efforts to accommodate persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u127	Mr President, the evaluation report of the Committee on the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities (CARPH) shows that the employment rate of disabled people has decreased in public services for the first time in five years. This rate was 1.45% in 2014 compared to 1.54% in 2012. This was already far from the 3% quota provided for in the Royal Decree of 6 October 2005. The causes of this decrease are very clear: reductions in staff, increased outsourcing, reduction in functions corresponding to lower levels of training; in short, this government's austerity policy leads to a decrease in the employment rate of this target group. The PTB obviously welcomes this parliament's willingness to increase the employment rate of disabled people, but there is concern that the use of subcontracting will lead to a downward revision of the employment ambitions of these people in the public services. It would have been preferable to look for ways to increase their employment rates in practice. The PTB proposes to introduce a uniform 5% quota of persons with disabilities in all administrations as well as in all bodies entrusted with a public mission. In July 2016, we introduced a proposal for this objective in the Brussels-Capital Region Parliament. In order to apply this quota, we must also provide ourselves with the necessary resources, which is not possible in the context of a policy of austerity. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u128	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u129	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1773/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1773/5) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u130	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u131	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. MM. Thiéry and Gustin, rapporteurs, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u132	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on clinical trials of drugs for human use is extremely important. It affects the entire clinician researchers who study new molecules in order to advance the scientific world and treatments. In many cases, these treatments are very innovative, in rare pathologies or pathologies for which we do not yet have sufficient treatment opportunities. These are important studies, which are initiated by the pharmaceutical industry. Let us recognize, however, that these studies enable patients, who are always at the centre of the debates in the Committee on Health, to benefit from innovative medicines during the duration of the studies and to be able to benefit from these treatments, which in some cases save lives. Of course, this bill is in favour of the pharmaceutical sector, but I would also like to remind you of the scope of this bill within the framework of the ethical committees and the hospital community. I would like to stress the importance of clinical trials in Belgium. Our country is a leader at European and almost global level in this field. It's an asset. I assure you that Belgium is recognized as such in the world. When you attend a congress of certain specialties, you can see that Belgians have participated in the studies that are presented. This global leadership is not only beneficial to patients, but also to physicians and researchers, as it enables them to gain greater visibility in the international arena. Not to mention all the value that this represents for our economy. The number of applications for clinical trials in Belgium increased by 6% in 2015. That's why we can say we're in the lead platoon. In 2015, 1,578 clinical studies were conducted in Belgium. This represents 170,000 patients who are directly affected by these studies and who can benefit from them. This project also implements a European regulation on clinical trials. This means that we are in a system of harmonising our system of clinical studies with what is recommended at European level. It is no surprise that our group will enthusiastically vote on this bill, which is defined by five relatively simple objectives. The first is to ensure the safety of people participating in clinical trials. The second is to facilitate the rapid development of innovative therapies and their access to patients. The third is to provide a quality assessment within the deadlines, if not faster. The fourth is to harmonise and simplify procedures which are often too cumbersome – which has been denounced by our experts and by the medical profession. The fifth is to maintain and improve the attractiveness and dominant position of Belgium in Europe for the conduct of these clinical trials.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u133	Mr. Speaker, this bill is both necessary and interesting to support the development of clinical trials. It provides elements that seem interesting to structure the evaluation of trials via independent structures in the pharmaceutical sector and the sites at which these trials will take place. The aim is also to have a point of contact as well as a centralized organisation, coordination of these tests. We are therefore of course in favour of such an approach, which transposes a European directive. Nevertheless, Madam Minister, in the discussions that we have had in committee, there are some points that need to be deepened or even raised – in any case, in our view. These include the approved ethics committees, which will be limited in number throughout the country (between eight and ten) and will be responsible for the evaluation of trials. In addition, they will have to comply with an independence requirement, but will be approved according to different criteria. When we asked you about them, before Easter, you told us that the decree would define them. I know you want the text to be adopted quickly in order to launch pilot projects. I do not know if, in the meantime, these criteria have been defined. In any case, it is difficult to support 100% of the provisions aimed at improving quality, precisely by reducing the number of approved committees, as the project to be adopted today does not provide any information on these criteria. Other issues raised during the discussions included the inclusion by this project of a share of funding by sponsors of clinical trials that are not engaged in commercial activity – for the most part, universities or associations that would stimulate certain projects and trials. You've been questioned about this. An amendment was tabled by Mr Fonck so that the tests carried out by these non-commercial actors could take place without contributing to the financing of the scheme. You responded that these were less professional trials and therefore required more work from the evaluation bodies. This answer cannot, of course, satisfy us. Indeed, the commitment of means for greater professionalism and a more harmonised deposit of projects is one thing. But to make them contribute to financing, while some economic actors have very important resources and can afford staff to make trial projects better constructed, it is to create an imbalance to the detriment of mainly academic actors. There are also difficulties in funding ethics committees, as they depend on funding from hospitals, the BMF. You said there will be no change to existing committees. On the other hand, other committees will have to receive financial contributions in order to continue to exist. As far as independence and conflicts of interest are concerned, questions remain. You provided some answers during the discussion. You say that where the bill does not state that there must be full independence, it is the Conflict of Interest Declaration Act that is required and must be respected. Unfortunately, for both the pharmaceutical and chemical sectors, it is realized that there is not always a declaration of conflict of interest and that, even when there is no declaration of conflict of interest by all stakeholders, national or European institutions regularly consider that these opinions are valid and can be taken into account. However, normally a notice should be refused if there is no certification and declaration of all potential conflicts of interest. The bill does not provide additional security in this regard. Our group will therefore abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u134	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, clinical research is recognised or, in any case, our researchers are particularly recognised and fully invested, which is fundamental. But it is equally essential to be effective in the ethical evaluation of clinical trials. Let us acknowledge that Belgium has for many years been regarded as a particularly successful country in this field. Indeed, our ethics committees have strong clinical and scientific expertise, as well as a knowledge of ethics and the legal framework for biomedical research. It is essential to ensure the protection of patients. It is therefore essential to maintain this expertise. Minister, several steps have led to your bill. Indeed, your initial project has been largely reworked. In particular, the Conference of Academic Hospitals of Belgium (CHAB) has invested a great deal in improving the text of your bill. If I can be positive about the outline of this project, you know as well as I do that a series of major points still need to be decided. In committee, you made a commitment that royal decrees should be drawn up in consultation with the sector. We will see if you respect your commitment. Two major problems remain. The first is the financing of this new legislation. This issue is crucial to allow all active ethics committees - many of them - to continue to invest in clinical research. But ethics committees are not just concerned with clinical research. Depending on the funding arrangements, there is a risk that the other missions they perform will be undermined, which would have adverse effects on patients. The second central problem, on which I spoke in committee, was the clinical research projects in the pharmaceutical industry, which our colleague Damien Thiéry was talking about earlier. This bill is not just about that. We always forget that there are non-commercial clinical trials. They are extremely important. I heard in committee that they would be less serious, precise and rigorous. That's shocking. Their promoters are academic and it is the expertise and scientific rigour of the universities that are being questioned. In comparison to that, Minister, your bill is a serious step backwards because the previous law of 2004 allowed special support for non-commercial research, through the exemption of fees to the Drug Agency. I wanted to return to this by providing for a full exemption for academic projects, but the amendment was rejected by the majority. Since this project came to committee, I have also had contacts with hospital research departments. They sent clarification requests to the Medicine Agency. Several weeks have passed and no response has been received. You will therefore allow me to be their relay since requests have been made to your services as to whether the current law could still be properly interpreted as that of 2004 with regard to exemptions for non-commercial test promoters, including the exemption from free supply of the drug under study, when it would have been prescribed regardless of its participation in the clinical trial. My question is very clear. A long argument has been sent to your services. Will the articles to be brought into conformity with health care insurance (Act of 1 July 1994), articles 34, paragraph 3, and 34, paragraph 4, apply in full to non-commercial clinical trials, as was the case in the Act of 7 May 2004? It seems important to me that you can answer. I will then relay to those who have asked me about this. While I am in favour of this bill in broad terms, I am keeping questions and denouncing the retreat from academic clinical trials, which are just as important as clinical trials in the pharmaceutical industry and industry. We will not support the text and we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u135	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u136	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2296/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2296/4) The draft law contains 62 articles. The bill has 62 articles. At the request of the services, we will make a technical correction to Article 61 with a view to inserting the words "drugs for human use" after the words "clinical trials". At the request of the services, we will make a technical improvement to Article 61 by adding the words 'with medicinal products for human use' after the words 'on clinical trials'. This technical improvement ensures that Article 61 corresponds to Article 59. Are you sure you don't mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u137	Mr President, this point has not been raised in committee at all. I therefore ask that, before the vote is taken, we be able to dispose, at least the group leaders, of the corrected article. Is this a technical correction that only targets one of the two languages while the other version was correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u138	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u139	So if this is a correction of the whole article presented as a technical one, I cannot commit myself to accepting it without having the corrected text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u140	Mrs Fonck, we will therefore distribute the services proposal. In my view, this is a purely technical correction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u141	Mr President, I did not think I had the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u142	Madam Secretary, I gave you the floor but you did not respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u143	Well, I was asking if I could look at the text of the amendment. Is it a new amendment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u144	No. It's a purely technical amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u145	I am referring to Mrs Fonck's amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u146	No. It's an amendment that's been held. He's been reintroduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u147	That's okay. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed an important draft on clinical trials. As has already been said, we are in anticipation of a European directive to be transposed. Important for the many patients in our country: 170 000 in 2014, and given the annual increase that number will increase in the future, there is a unique point of contact. That is a contact point for the pharmaceutical companies that want to start a clinical trial in Belgium. Increasing the expertise of the FAGG in this domain is also important. Mrs Fonck, I will ask why the questions have not been answered and whether they can be answered. There is also an important part about the independent College in the womb of the FPS Public Health, in which for the first time there is a patient participation, in the sense that they will be represented. With regard to the ethics committees, Mrs Fonck has questions about funding, given the changes that are taking place regarding the organisation and powers of these ethics committees. In committee it was said that the funding is really only there for the tasks they have to do for the clinical trials. The funding for other tasks will indeed continue to be provided through the BFM. A key of that funding will also be established through a royal decree. The time-limits for assessing applications for clinical trials are actually kept very short in our country and all in order to maintain our competitive advantage and our leading position in the clinical trials. It is also important to pay sufficient attention to the protection of patients. There must be a compensation system covering all damage resulting from clinical trials. Furthermore, the rules around the informed consent are also being changed. It also seems important to me that there should be a publicly accessible database, where people with the necessary interest can find out if there are clinical trials for the condition they have. This is certainly a major step forward, Mr President. I ask everyone to support this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u148	Madam Secretary, thank you for the necessary supplement. An amendment has been tabled by Mrs Fonck to Rule 47. I assume that the text of the technical amendment has now been distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u149	Mr. Chairman, has this technical change been requested by the Minister? I have the impression that the minister was not consulted. I would like to be sure that the text is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u150	He's quite correct. This is a technical correction at the request of the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u151	Mr President, it is at the request of the services and myself that we use the same terminology for the two articles, i.e.'medicines for human use', because otherwise Article 61 would only say 'on clinical trials'. There are clinical trials other than those for human use.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u152	Mr President, if I may, I would like to go back to Rule 61. It is a little special to arrive three minutes before the vote with an amendment which we are presented with as being of a technical nature. Of course, that may be the case. However, I do not know whether the majority consulted the document. Secondly, I note that the minister is not aware of it and that she cannot necessarily validate it. Finally, I would like to point out that some clinical trials do not deal with drugs. It seems to me essential to look at this aspect in order to avoid re-correcting the text tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u153	Mrs Fonck, I would like to withdraw this correction, but the services have introduced it for the sake of correctness and high-level legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u154	It's a government project. I am only asking if the government agrees with this correction. If he responds positively and is sure of it, it is very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u155	Yes, but I didn't propose this correction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u156	But the government agrees?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u157	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u158	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Conclusion of the discussion of the articles:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u159	Sustained: the vote on the amendment and Rule 47. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 46 and 48 to 62, with text improvements to Article 61.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u160	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of two alternate non-notaries from the French-speaking Appointments Commission for the notary. The next item is the ballot for the appointment of two non-notary alternate members of the Commission de nomination pour le notariat de langue française. We must appoint an alternate non-notary member of the French-speaking Appointments Committee for the notary in the category "doctor or professor of law." We must appoint an alternate non-notary member to the Commission de nomination pour le notariat de langue française, category "charged de cours ou profession de droit". Ms Christine Biquet's candidacy was announced at the plenary session of 9 March 2017. Christine Biquet's candidacy was announced during the plenary session on March 9, 2017. Since there is only one candidate, Mrs Christine Biquet, pursuant to Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure, can be declared elected. Since there is only one candidate, the Chamber may declare Ms. Christine Biquet elected pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of the Chamber. Are you sure you don't mind? It is thus decided. No observation? No) That will be the case. We must now proceed with the appointment of an alternate non-notary member of the French-speaking Appointments Commission for the notary in the category 'external members' for a two-year term of office. We must now proceed to the appointment of an alternate non-notary member to the Commission de nomination pour le notariat de langue française, category "external members" for a term of two years. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 23 March 2017. Nominations were announced during the plenary session on 23 March 2017. The list of candidates has been distributed under No. 2394/1. The list of candidates has been circulated under No. 2394/1. You received a ballot with the names of the candidates. You have received a ballot containing the names of the candidates. In order to vote, one has to place a cross in the box opposite the name of the chosen candidate. Vote notes with more votes than there are mandates are invalid. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. Ballot papers containing more votes than there are warrants to be filled shall be void. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? No) Thus shall be done. No observation? No) That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? No) Thus shall be done. No observation? No) That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u161	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u162	As a result of the resignation of Ms Camille Dieu, a fifth call for candidates for a mandate of female French-speaking member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category "Former Members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate" was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 14 March 2017, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 9 March 2017. Following the resignation of Camille Dieu, a fifth call for candidates for a French-speaking female member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category "Former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate" appeared in the Moniteur belge of 14 March 2017, in accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 9 March 2017. No application was submitted within the prescribed time limit. No applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 April 2017, I propose that you publish a sixth call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 April 2017, I propose that you publish a sixth call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u163	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 April 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the draft law (Mr Roel Deseyn and Mr Servais Verherstraeten) to strengthen the tax on sightseeing, No. 2419/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u164	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Philippe Blanchart cs) on possible violence against the LGBTQIs in Chechnya, No. 2421/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u165	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 April 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Roel Deseyn and Servais Verherstraeten) strengthening the transparency tax, No 2419/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u166	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Philippe Blanchart et al.) on potential violence against LGBTQI people in Chechnya, No. 2421/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u167	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u168	Mr President, it is known that the situation of homosexual, bisexual or transgender persons in Chechnya is already particularly difficult, but reports have emerged that this situation is worsening and that acts of torture are being perpetrated against these persons. We have therefore worked on a motion for a resolution (No 2421/1) and we call for its urgent consideration in the Committee on External Relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u169	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on measures to combat tax fraud, No. 2400/1. The government called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on measures to combat tax fraud, No. 2400/1, was introduced. I would suggest that we also express our opinion on this request of urgency at the sitting and getting up, but the tradition is that the government should motivate urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u170	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill also deals with crime, but of a different order of magnitude than Mrs Onkelinx has just explained. Currently, an assessment team of the OECD Global Peer Review Group is working on a thorough analysis of our legislation and our practical operation in connection with the exchange of information on request. The assessors shall only take into account legislation that exists at the time of completion of the evaluation. It is therefore extremely important that this bill be published in the Belgian Official Journal as soon as possible. The proposed legislative amendments are necessary to meet the standards of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). If not, Belgium will be considered non-compliant, which may have important consequences in terms of its reputation. The other countries will no longer exchange information with Belgium. That is why the government is asking for the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u171	I would suggest that we speak out on the question at the sitting and getting up. I propose that we take a stand on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u172	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 28 March 2017. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 28 March 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 206/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Werner Janssen. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 206/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Werner Janssen. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u173	Mr President, at the beginning of this legislature, I questioned Secretary of State Sleurs about the fact that out of the 14 federal scientific institutions there are no less than 11, where legal language frameworks are not followed. One doesn't even have a language framework at all. Mrs Sleurs, in her response to this problem, showed good will, but if I look at the figures now, the situation has only deteriorated in a year and a half. The settings that scored the worst, with barely 40 % jobs going to Flemings, have deteriorated even more. In other words, contrary to what I expected from a Flemish nationalist in that department, there has been no improvement, quite the contrary. It's been vain hope. Now that there's a new Secretary of State, I have a new hope. So I have submitted a new interplay to confront the new Secretary of State with the deteriorating figures. With this motion for a recommendation, her ambition in this area has been shown not to be very great in her reply. I would certainly like to give her a little support in order to at least respect the legal language frameworks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u174	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 90 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] (Mr Sebastian Pirlot voted against)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u175	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 28 March 2017. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 28 March 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 208/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Michel de Lamotte; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Gantois and Mrs Griet Smaers. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 208/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michel de Lamotte; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Gantois and Mrs Griet Smaers. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u176	Mr President, this is an important matter, namely consumer protection. The agreement "The consumer in the liberalised electricity and gas market" was to be renewed by the end of 2016 and was not. Negotiations are under way. I really insist that things be moved forward in the sense that this agreement should set a number of benchmarks to protect the consumer, particularly with regard to dormant products, the transparency of contracts and joint offers. There is really a consumer's expectation of this approach. My inquiry was aimed at stimulating the government to move forward in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u177	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 82 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. Mr Brotcorne voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u178	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2242/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2242/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2346/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2346/4) (Ms. de Coster-Bauchau voted in favour)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u180	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1509/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1509/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 110 Yes No. [[14]] No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2311/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2311/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] (Mr Georges Gilkinet voted against)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u182	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2171/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2171/6) Reason for abstinence? (No) Reason for abstention? (Non)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u183	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1773/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1773/6) Reason for abstinence? (No) Reason for abstention? (No)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u184	Mr President, our group voted against, and we were distracted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u185	So the Ecolo-Groen Group voted against it. Mrs Smaers voted in favour. Colleagues, we need to be more careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u186	Votes 139 Votants Blank or invalid 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. White or invalid Valid 137 Valables Two-thirds majority 92 Two-thirds majority Mr Philippe Damman obtained 133 votes for a two-year mandate. Mr. Philippe Damman obtained 133 votes for a two-year term. Mr Patrick Gielen obtained 4 votes for a two-year term of office. Patrick Gielen obtained 4 votes for a two-year term. Mr Philippe Damman, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an alternate non-notary member of the French-speaking Appointments Committee for the notary, category of external members, for a two-year term of office. Mr Philippe Damman, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is hereby declared an alternate non-notary member of the Commission de nomination pour le notariat de langue française, classe membres externes, for a term of two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u187	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck on article 47. (2296/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 47. (2296/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 23 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 37 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 47 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 47 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u188	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[115]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2296/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2296/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-20-54-plenair-ip164x.u189	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 27 April 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 27 April 2017. I propose that you begin the agenda with the bill to establish the War Heritage Institute and to integrate the missions, means and personnel of the Institute of Veterans - National Institute of War Invalids, Veterans and War Victims, the Royal Museum of the Army and Military History, the National Memorial of Breendonk Fort, and the Historical Pole of Defence (2320/1-7). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 27 April 2017, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 27 April 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
