ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels' 16285 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u2	Mr. Demon is apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u3	Mr President, Minister, the city of Bruges has a safety and prevention plan, an agreement with the Home Office to shape local prevention policies. For the city of Bruges, this means an important source of funding for the operation of the prevention service, i.e. for community guards, prevention workers of all kinds and normal operation. The current contract runs for the first time in a four-year cycle, from 2014 to 2017. It was announced a while ago that this cycle would be aligned with the cycle of the municipal councils, i.e. six-yearly. In the meantime, that has been decided for the zonal safety plans. An extension of the existing zonal safety plan 2014-2017 is foreseen for two years - 2018-2019 - so that a new management team can draw up a new zonal safety plan for six years. The same scenario has been predicted for the strategic safety and prevention plans, but this is still not being implemented. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, will you extend the application of the safety and prevention plans in accordance with the decision on the zonal safety plans until 2019? Secondly, when will that be decided? Thirdly, are you considering savings in these benefits, which are very important for cities and municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u4	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the evaluation and work of the strategic safety and prevention plans have begun. Optimum coordination between all policy texts will be considered. The SVPPs will thus be complementary to the Integrated Security Framework Paper, to the National Security Plan and to the zonal security plans. This is entirely in accordance with the Royal Decree of 7 November 2013. That principle is important, because, as you said, the zonal security plans were adapted to the local policy cycle. No reference was made to the strategic safety and prevention plans, but the government agreement provides for an extension after an in-depth review. As regards timing, I would like to present the basic principles - award criteria, methodology and type of initiatives to be subsidised - of the new cycle of strategic safety and prevention plans to my colleagues in the government before the recess. As far as your third and final question on savings is concerned, I have always maintained, as far as possible, the funds allocated to the municipalities. We didn't save up on that. I would like to remind you that the funds allocated to each municipality in the current cycle are by no means a right for the next cycle. There will therefore be no savings on the global pot, but that does not mean that each municipality will necessarily receive the same. The distribution of subsidies for this next cycle is a decision that is ultimately reserved for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Forgive me if I ask you again for the sake of clarity, so we should not be entirely reassured that we will get the same amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u6	No, if I were to respond positively, I would anticipate the situation. The pot remains the same, but just like last time we look at how we distribute these subsidies among the municipalities. The better your plans, the more sure you are of your subsidies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir 16447 was converted into a written question. Mr Blanchart is still present in the Committee on Justice and will be here as soon as possible. We shall now continue with Mr Nollet's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u8	Mr President, Minister, during our recent on-site visit, the company's management informed us that, according to them, everything was in order and that the date for the re-launching of the plant could be maintained by 15 February. However, this 9 February, a fifth postponement has just been announced to the market. Tihange 1 power station has been under arrest since 7 September, more than five months now. Can you explain where we are? Has Electrabel submitted all the necessary documents? Has AFCN ever given the operator a return? Did it require additional information? Which ones? Can you now tell us what the AFCN's analysis of the safety demonstration documents, particularly with regard to the seismic resistance calculations of the building, has given us? At what level is resistance guaranteed? Is it at a higher level than before September 7, 2016? Can you also tell us what still needs to be done and/or tested and/or analyzed before you can consider a possible restart? Is the date of February 28 credible as a "possible" date of a restart or should we once again expect a further postponement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u9	Mr. Nollet, I'm not going to repeat myself. Various questions have already been asked on the subject. I will give you an update on the previous questions and answers. Since September 2016, the Safety Authority has held regular follow-up meetings with the operator Electrabel and, among other things, has required on-site and laboratory tests to characterize the nature of the loosely-consolidated embankment layer, the justification for the stability (carrying capacity and compaction) in the normal and accidental situation of the Tihange 1 safety structures located on the loosely-consolidated embankment layer and the justification for the development of the loosely-consolidated embankment layer. To date, the operator Electrabel has provided a considerable number of documents to the Security Authority. The Commission analyses them with a view to assessing the extent to which the questions it has asked to date have been answered in a favourable manner and in order to verify whether the installation safety is demonstrated. Discussions are still ongoing. In particular, the stability of the W building in normal and accidental conditions is not clearly demonstrated. The justification for displacement in the event of an earthquake must be completed and reviewed. Justifications for the stability of other buildings are being analysed. For your second question, concerning the guarantee in terms of resistance, I refer to the answer I have already given to Question No 15861. So we're not going to change our requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u10	Minister, I agree, but I guess we're waiting to see what's going on with this guarantee. You're talking about the goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u11	Yes, yes. We're making a comparison. They must reach this level of guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u12	But we don't know what's going on yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u13	There you go. Finally, as I have told you on several occasions, the Safety Authority cannot decide on a possible start date for the Tihange 1 reactor until all the safety studies provided by the operator have been evaluated and accepted. As I have already explained in my previous replies, I can assure you that no relaunch can be envisaged without the approval of the Safety Authority. All safety demonstrations will be reviewed before the green light is given. This is indeed difficult, because the most recent document may still raise new questions. In any case, I assure you that the operator must answer all the questions and that the required levels must be reached, otherwise the reactors will not restart.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u14	On this point, I have no doubt. You've already talked about it several times. My problem is that this is the fifth announced restart date. And there's a market disruption. As we announce 15 February, then we postpone and, if I have heard your answer, at this stage, things are not clearly demonstrated in terms of seismic resistance capability. It means it'll take some more time. So I'm not asking for a date, but does the AFCN think it's credible that it's February 28th? It seems to me difficult, given all that is yet to be done and the uncertainties that you are talking about today for the first time about seismic resistance. It means, and it's normal since this is the procedure, that a dialogue is still under way between AFCN and Electrabel. I am still concerned about the fact that five times we give different information to the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u15	Dates are the responsibility of the operator. That is not our responsibility. What I said at the beginning of my answer comes from the documents they recently provided. I can't believe it's enough before we can examine everything. When this is done and it turns out that all the answers are given, in this case, 28 February may be possible. The only guarantee I can provide is that every question will have to find a proper answer, otherwise they will not be able to restart. Apart from that, it's the operator's responsibility. Neither do I find it very clever to communicate in this way, but it belongs to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u16	I fully understand your reasoning. The fact is that they cannot announce dates that are already perceived as unreachable. It's their responsibility. They have to answer to the markets. Not in front of AFCN, you're right about that. But before the markets, they must respond and this date must be credible. Considering all the documents, I'd be surprised if it was ready. But we'll see. I will ask you again about the evolution of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir 16447 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir's 16510 was converted into a written question. The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 16560 by Mr Alain Summit on VAT controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u18	Minister, questions are asked about the title of the question. It is not about VAT controls, but it may have something to do with it. It's about hacking elections, about practicing. VAT checks are also about that, so that's how one can make a bridge. No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u19	My agenda mentions the VAT checks, but your question is indeed about the Dutch decision not to vote electronically anymore. That's why.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u20	I didn't remember submitting a question about VAT checks. Mr Minister, after reports that the American elections would have been hacked, you asked for an analysis of the possible dangers to our ballot box, including the risk of piracy on our electronic voting systems. The Netherlands recently announced that in the upcoming elections, all votes will be counted by hand in four weeks' time for fear of hackers. Dutch minister Ronald Plasterk responded as follows: "Now that there are also international indications that, for example, the Russians might be interested in the electoral process, we have to fall back on the good old paperwork just before the upcoming elections. Belgium is one of the only countries in Europe where there is a large-scale electronic vote. There's only one reason for that: safety. In addition to the fact that the system can be hacked, a lot of people accidentally vote wrong. Moreover, electronic voting is up to three times more expensive than pencil and paper voting and sometimes deters older voters. Our country has known some cyber security issues in recent years. I have already put questions about that. Until recently, it was possible to find documents containing confidential information online. Even after they were deleted, one could still consult the documents via the cache memory of e.g. Google. Firstly, do you have any results from the analysis? Or when do you expect it? Secondly, if the results of the analysis for the electronic voting method were negative or suspected, would you consider falling back on pencil and paper?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u21	Mr Top, it is clear that the services of the Home Office are evaluating the risks of piracy of electronic voting systems. The recent votes in America, as well as the recent decision in the Netherlands, gave rise to this. I would like to make it clear that our material has an important characteristic, which is different from that of the two countries mentioned. Because our material does not contain a hard drive, no software can be stored from any other elections. It is also important to mention that voting machines in Belgian polling stations are not connected to the Internet. The computers of a polling station are not even interconnected or connected to the bureau president's computer. So it's all about stand-alone PCs. In addition, there is the FOD Home Affairs computer that is used for the creation and duplication of the USB keys with the voting software. That computer isn't connected to the Internet either. The whole procedure is therefore completely independent of the Internet. Only certain authorised personnel of the FPS Home Office will have physical access to the area where the USB keys are created and duplicated. Procedures are, of course, developed for the security of the voting software. The services of the FPS Home Affairs also evaluate the implementation of new forms of control in the light of technological developments and experience around the world. In addition, there are contacts between the FOD Home Affairs and the Cybersecurity Centre in Belgium to evaluate the risks of cyberattacks for the Belgian electoral process. With the new computers for the next ballot one can now also make a printout on paper of the vote, check and insert into an urn. So there is a backup in the case of anomalies. Based on all these elements, the security of our electronic voting system will evolve permanently and in a calm manner, but right now I have no reason to say that we are going back to the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u22	Minister, you said in the press that you would ask for an analysis. I suppose you asked for that analysis, too. Is what you're saying coming from that analysis? Is that the full analysis you have today? After all, you say that you are sure today that it is all right. Is that the analysis you referred to in the press release? If so, I will see or hear from you that the analysis indicates that, at least in Belgium, there are no risks of hacking or influencing the voting results from outside our elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u23	Mr Top, the analysis is permanent. This is about the elements that make me decide today that I have no reason to do so now. There are also contacts with the Center for Cybersecurity. Those contacts have not yet demonstrated hackability and the risk of cyber attacks on our systems. These are all elements that lead me to conclude that there is no reason at the moment. However, if the contacts with the Center for Cybersecurity show that there would be dangers, we will see whether or not we can reduce these dangers. The technology isn't standing still. The evaluation of such systems in the field of safety and hackability is also ongoing. That's a continuous process.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u24	Mr President, first of all, the report was a response to the problems in America. You made it clear that this had to be analysed. There are two analyses, namely what you yourself announced about an analysis and an evaluation. I assume that at that time or now you indicate that the analysis has taken place today and that there is no problem. That's what I'd like to hear from you. That's all that matters. Secondly, you are effectively right when you say that there is a need for continuous evaluation. The system doesn't stop. Mr President, I thought I had the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u25	You have the last word, but the speaking time is limited. I refer to the Rules of Procedure and ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u26	Minister, I continue to insist that we continue to analyse very carefully, which may bring with it new elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u27	Mr President, Minister, since the attacks and the crisis situation, Belgium, like other countries of the European Union, has adapted to inform citizens as best it can. To do this, the Crisis Centre of the Interior FPS has developed BE-Alert which, when the authority has decided, informs the citizen through various communication channels such as text messages or email. The services of the French Interior have also developed a smartphone app, called SAIP (System of Alert and Information of the Populations) which, by geolocation, informs the citizen of the following dangers: attacks, nuclear problems, rupture of hydraulic works and dangerous products. For each situation, the application also gives simple and clear advice to people to respond properly. Minister, why was the BE-Alert system preferred, based on a pre-selected online record, to a geolocation application? Is it envisaged in the future to develop a geolocation system? What constraints prevent the implementation of this system in our country? What means are available to Belgian citizens to obtain clear and simple information on how to respond to crisis situations? According to your department's analysis, is it feasible to put in place a coordinated application in all European countries, which would inform the citizen according to his position?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u28	Mrs Jadin, the BE-Alert system consists of a platform for alerting and informing the public in the event of an emergency, allowing the simultaneous activation of several information channels such as text messages (sms to mobile phones), voice messages (mainly to fixed phones), but also emails and social networks. The aim of this multichannel approach is to reach as many people as possible, regardless of the preferred communication channel. A single application system is only for people who have a smartphone and have downloaded the application. However, BE-Alert will be a flexible and evolving tool, which will adapt to the technological changes in our society and to the use of technologies by our fellow citizens. It is not excluded that one or more applications are developed or associated with the platform. Nevertheless, my services favour the development of a kit for app developers and, in this case, the applications most used by our citizens: information, social networks, etc., so that an alert can be read by them. In this way, citizens should not download an additional application but would be warned as they navigate through their usual applications. The goal is to reach as many people as possible. The BE-Alert platform makes it possible to reach the citizens affected by an emergency situation in two different ways. First, it can reach citizens through their registration in the system, which we strongly encourage them to do, by encoding their landline and/or mobile phone numbers, as well as their addresses, home or work, if any. However, this first way of doing things will be complemented by Alert-SMS technology, which allows a text message to be sent, at a given time, to all people present in an area, with a mobile phone on, even those who are not registered in the system. This looks like geolocation, but it is not because mobile phones are not geolocationd but present in a specific area, i.e. near a particular antenna. The establishment of a geolocation system presents technological and legal constraints, in particular in relation to respect for the right to privacy. For several years now, the Crisis Centre has been developing an approach to raising citizens' awareness of self-protection and solidarity in crisis situations. The aim is to teach them the actions they can take in the face of risks in our society in order to ensure their own safety and that of their loved ones. This can take the form of information sessions and brochures, as well as actions on the ground, such as the passage of the Federal Truck in June 2016, in several municipalities concerned with the risk Seveso or, in November and December 2016, in several schools to raise awareness of the risks in particular. All these initiatives are sensitized around a web portal info-risks.be, launched in 2014, and recently complemented by a Facebook page dedicated to this subject, to encourage discussions with and between citizens. Through these continuously available channels, citizens can learn about more than fifteen safety, health, technological or natural risks in order to know the right behaviours to adopt in the face of these risks or in the event of a crisis. In addition, the Crisis Centre launched a risk information campaign in 2016. It will be carried out until 2019 and will be implemented through various awareness-raising actions at national and local level. All the tools and visuals developed in the framework of this info-risks.be campaign are also made available to all municipalities in the country so that they can inform their citizens of the risks present in their territory in a consistent and uniform manner. As warning is the first crisis communication action, it is equally important to raise awareness of how it will be done. Information to the general public about BE-Alert and its awareness of the alert as such are therefore part of the same global approach. Finally, as already explained, the BE-Alert tool aims to be flexible, scalable and flexible, in order to be able to adapt to the technological changes of the coming years, including integration and connection to other warning tools. The Crisis Centre will gladly join a European initiative once it is initiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u29	Minister, thank you. Indeed, I believe that you have met all my expectations when I tabled this question, namely the evolution of the instruments you are reporting on in the light of the evolution of technological progress, with the facilitation of the flow of information that is most useful to reach the citizens as quickly as possible, especially depending on where they are. So I understand very well that geolocation - and that's what I think too - would, although certainly interesting, be a tool to be put in place, but you have explained very well the constraints, both those relating to the protection of privacy and those relating to all the legal aspects to be put in place around it. Finally, in relation to the results achieved, the many instruments available to us can very well supplement this system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u30	Mr President, Minister, the website of Knack magazine recently told us that the police and your firm wanted to keep the images collected by the Automatic number flat recognition (ANPR) system – I quote the whole word because it's important: we're talking about a flat number – for a year while the current law on cameras only allows us to keep them for a month. That is how you would work to change the legal framework. But this article also tells us that these same ANPR cameras photograph much more than the mineralogic plate of vehicles using our road network. Chief Commissioner Chris Drieskens, responsible for the federal police project, said: "It is true that a picture of the entire vehicle, including the occupants, is taken. When there is enough light, there is no reflection on the windscreen and the camera is photographed from the right angle, you can see the number of people in the car and recognize them. The ANPR cameras that are on the market are already in high definition: the information is sufficiently detailed". This information prompted the Chair of the Privacy Commission to react: "I did not know at all that ANPR cameras could also be used for facial recognition. And practice teaches me that what is technically possible will actually be applied." Hence, Deputy Prime Minister, my four questions. Do the ANPR cameras currently installed, according to the Knack article, on 13 border crossings and on the outskirts of Brussels and Charleroi airports already record the faces of the occupants of the vehicles photographed? Is it the photo as a whole and not just the plate number of the vehicle photographed that is currently stored in the police ANPR database? Do you confirm your wish to have a dialogue with other police databases on an ANPR database covering the faces of vehicle occupants photographed during the implementation of the iPolice system, which we have already discussed widely here? Are your services considering a permanent operation of this facial recognition or a strict use in the event of an imminent and/or proven threat of terrorist attack?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u31	Mr. Hellings, the ANPR cameras installed on the thirteen border crossings record the entire vehicle, including the occupants, but are not capable of doing facial recognition. You must also understand that facial recognition on ANPR cameras is not obvious and that the current generation of cameras is not able to provide good results. This is related in particular to the distance between the cameras and the vehicles photographed, to the angle in which they are located (usually oblique, so that they can properly record the plate number), to the atmospheric conditions (rain, snow, fog), to the light that is reflected on the front window, etc. It is therefore a path that will probably offer opportunities in the future but that is not yet on the agenda. Yes, the picture as a whole is stored in the police ANPR database. At present, the exact scope of the iPolice solution has not yet been defined. It is clear that the supplier will be asked to optimize the current police processes (interventions, research, neighbourhood work) and to stimulate intelligence-led policing (the information-led police). Apart from facial recognition, there are a multitude of intelligent tools that are of interest to the police. The purpose of the harvest will always be the conductive line. This means, for example, that if the police are looking for a fugitive terrorist in an emergency and throughout the national territory and if the ANPR cameras are capable of recognizing faces, a police officer authorized to draw up requests with a national impact and with an ad hoc level of access to the databases could activate a request to identify that person through ANPR cameras active on Belgian territory by comparing the registered faces with that of the wanted terrorist. This will in no way mean that the system will constantly collect faces, identify them all and store their identities in a data bank and/or compare them with those contained in another data bank. However, it would be possible for permanent cross-references to be made between specific lists, e.g. of wanted authors, and the ANPR database in order to find guides to locate such persons. This principle will be the same as currently applied with registration data, i.e. the ANPR database is not crossed with the entire police database, but only with one or more specific lists, called black lists, such as lists for unpaid insurance, wanted cars, involved in a criminal act, etc. In this case, the objective of the crossing was defined in advance. When we talk about storing images for a year, it is to allow the search for the license plate of a car or a face likely to one day be involved in a crime of which the police become aware only after a few months; for example, because the involvement of its driver is only discovered after a few months of investigation. Again, the objective of the research is well defined. The officer authorized to execute the request can only view the results that concern him, but cannot view the images stored on the ANPR server. The iPolice project is based on the need to properly protect personal data. In a world of big data, where tools know how to browse masses of information, access to these results and the management of these accesses become much more important. In this sense, the iPolice project calls on suppliers to pay a great deal of attention to this issue and to allow the police to protect the data as much as possible and to use it for specific, well-defined purposes, not only for the protection of privacy but also for the sound management of police processes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u32	Minister, obviously, there is an evolution between the first statement of the ANPR system manager in the police and what you have just said. So, today, not all cameras are capable of recognizing faces. I repeat, ANPR is about the plate numbers. It's in the name. Facial recognition is not planned. The purpose of the ANPR system is to be able, via cameras, to photograph a plate number so that, as you have specified, you can search for a person on the basis of this number. There is no question of facial recognition. I can hear the precautions you took. In the event that we are looking for someone extremely dangerous, who is going to commit or has committed an attack, in an exceptional and limited way, I think that this system can be used and temporarily and proportionately put on the road, given the threat or crime committed. The terrorist attack is one of them. The environmentalists agree on this. From the moment it is determined and limited. On the other hand, turning these cameras permanently is not proportionate. We will therefore be very attentive on the day you come with your bill to keep this data, including facial data, for a year. Because there is the measure. If we agree that in a given period we must be able to use facial recognition, in general – we have the chance to live in a peaceful and democratic country – it is not necessary. The photograph of the vehicle must be sufficient to obtain its plate and not the head of the drivers and passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u33	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have already had an opportunity to have an exchange with you about your functional treatment project within the police, which you announced in your policy brief. Since then, the main stakeholders are still waiting for a decision. This blur leaves workers in doubt and they fear that their wages will be planed. We agree that the premium system within the police is quite complex. But the overhaul of this system must not be accompanied by a loss of wages. Minister, what is the status of this functional treatment project? Have the unions been co-ordinated in this context? Do you intend to inform the workers soon? Will this new formula exclude bonuses from pay? How do you envisage it? What will be the concrete impact on workers' incomes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the process of functional remuneration has been in progress for a long time. We are moving forward gradually, certainly in small steps, but the direction is clearly set and reflected in the government agreement. There are already some concrete achievements or drafts. Thus, we already find traces of this in the more or less recent regulatory achievements with respect to the compensation of the Commissioner General, the Inspector General and his deputy. The Royal Decree of 25 November 2016 was adapted in order to amend the allowance for the road police. In the very short term, I will ask for an opinion from the Council of Mayors on a more functional remuneration for the agents, with a view to making the functional salary effort more appropriate to their level of responsibility. You probably know that last December I started sectoral negotiations with the police unions without any determination of an envelope and therefore logically subject to any reservation. In the wake of the Negotiating Committee, a working group was established. The Committee has already begun its work and will continue its work next month. It is through this channel that we will see, in the end, what is possible or not. I have the firm will to reach an agreement, but my deep conviction is that it will take time. We must, in fact, take into account the current circumstances in which this conceptual and technical work is carried out. I am, of course, not just referring here to the budgetary context. In the current context of the status of the case, I cannot at the moment comment on the exclusion of certain premiums and on the concrete impact on income. It's a work in progress, as they say.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u35	I was just going to go back to another question in my reply, about timing, but you answered it. You have set up a working group, which has already met and will meet again in the near future. I will not fail to follow this file very closely. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u36	Question No 16582 by Mr Emir Kir has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u37	Minister, I have a brief follow-up question concerning the reform of civil protection. It's been on your schedule for some time now. There is concern among the staff, who are afraid to wait for buttons to be cut. First of all, how many days a week are the barracks operational? Secondly, on what days are the different barracks operational? Thirdly, how will the closure of certain barracks be completed on certain days? Finally, what is the state of trade union consultation on the future of civil protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u38	In five of the six barracks there is permanent, seven days on seven, operational staff and for the sixth barracks, Jabbeke, that is three days on four. There are therefore no direct interventions from the sixth barracks on the day when no operational personnel are present. In the sixth barracks there is always a telephone operator present, making it possible to call for interventions. The requests are passed on to another barracks to ensure their implementation. Once the government has reached agreement on the overall reorganisation of civil protection, which concerns both its mission, its unity, its status and its working arrangements, the detailed proposal will be the subject of trade union negotiations. The alignment of the Staff Regulations of Civil Protection and Fire Departments, consisting of the adaptation of the Staff Regulations of Civil Protection to those of Fire Departments, has already been discussed with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u39	Mr Minister, I will not repeat the whole debate on the reasons; this aspect has already been discussed extensively in the discussion of the policy letter on the 2017 budget. The reason for the submission of this question is the uncertainty among staff about the future, especially the staff of the barracks who are supposed to be closed down. Rumor has it that the barracks of Brasschaat and Crisnée would be preserved, while the other barracks would be on the slope. In particular, the local authorities and individuals involved in security in the north of the province of West Flanders are concerned about whether the specialized tasks currently being taken into account by Jabbeke's civil protection will be carried out equally well and equally efficiently. That's what you were talking about in your policy letters. In short, on the basis of what I know today, I am not convinced that in the event of a greater disaster, the fire-fighting zones which have to replace the closed barracks of civil protection have the necessary resources at their disposal. In addition, fire zones, which intervene in the zone, may act in the event of minor disasters, but they do not currently have the means to resolve larger disasters for a long time. I therefore call for clarity on the continuation of the barracks of civil protection and on the security of our country. Will the necessary resources be made available to the provinces and fire zones to take over the tasks of civil protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u40	Mr Top, I can clearly confirm what you are asking. It is clear that we will not remove tasks from civil protection before they can be properly taken over by the fire zones. It's a trial, by the way. I hope that we can make the decision quickly and then we will look at task by task, fire station by fire station, fire zone by fire zone. I have said from the outset that if we transfer civil protection tasks to the fire zones, that will be with resources - read hardware - with people and also with funding for those people. I have said that from the beginning, and we will make that very clear. It is clear that if one considers that tasks in the safety chain are no longer part of one but one another, one cannot simply reject those tasks, but that the new performer of those tasks agrees with them and is also well equipped to do so. You are right when you say that the decision in principle should be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u41	Take it from me that we will certainly continue to follow up the file in West Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u42	On January 24, 2017, an incident occurred at CWB in Gaurain-Ramecroix, a company specializing in quarries for the production of cement, aggregates and concrete. One electrician found that a radioactive source, used to measure the density of cement, was no longer in its container. It was a source of Césium-137 for an activity of 1.4 gigabecquerel (GBq). Fortunately, this electrician was able to recover the radioactive source and place it in his container. But during this operation, he received a dose of 5 microsieverts. What are the causes of the non-presence of the radioactive source in its container? Why was this event ranked at Level 1 on the INES scale? What steps have been taken to ensure that such an incident does not occur again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u43	The cause of this accident is currently under investigation. However, this could be linked to the presence of a compressed air gun installed while the source was already in place. Repetition of the shocks caused by the latter could have caused the radioactive source to be removed from its container. This reason, however, must be confirmed. The dose to which the electrician was exposed is 130 microsieverts and not 5 microsieverts. Classification on the INES scale follows the methodology prescribed in the INES manual, published by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). An event is analysed on the basis of a number of criteria, such as the impact of the dose on the worker, on the environment or on the defence system in depth. In view of the impact of the dose received and the consequences suffered by the worker and the environment, this incident was classified at INES level 1 for reasons of defence in depth: loss of safety barriers. In order to prevent such an incident from occurring, a check of all containers in service was carried out. Platelets have been placed on all containers that are currently free of them. The identification plate did not appear on the source door of the radioactive source concerned. This plate must be removed when replacing the source but not necessarily put back in place. Although it did not fulfil a priori any safety function, it turned out that its presence would have prevented the incident. It was therefore decided to place an identification badge on the containers which are currently without one. The operator also has an obligation to assess whether other medium- or long-term measures should be taken to prevent the reproduction of such an event. An action plan is expected on 28 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u44	Mr.Minister, I will therefore ask you again at the beginning of March, since I assume that we will see more clearly at that time about the cause of this event. You are telling us that the analysis is under way and so I hope that we will see more clearly on the action plan. I propose that these elements be postponed to the beginning of March. On the other hand, I am surprised by the dose the worker received since you are talking about 130 or 136 microsieverts. I just saw on the AFCN website that there are five microsieverts. I guess we'll correct that information by then.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u45	Mr President, Minister, at our meeting on January 18, I asked you what type of aircraft are resistant to the nuclear power plants and the building that houses the 610 m3 of spent fuel. To be precise, I asked you to assure us that these buildings resisted, among other things, the fall of a Boeing 747 cargo version like those of the TNT company at the Bierset airport. I was also asking you if there is a study that proves that. In your answer, you indicated to me that information about the type of aircraft used in the design of the tests is classified as confidential and cannot be disclosed. You even told me that similar detailed questions about the resistance of other nuclear facilities to aircraft crashes had never been answered in the past for the same reasons of confidentiality. Continuing to work on this subject, it was not my surprise to discover that such information is in no way confidential. Indeed, in the following documents I was able to find the following information. On page 125 of the Belgian national report under the Convention on Nuclear Safety, I found confirmation that it was a B767 that was taken into account in the tests, not a 747. On page 92 of the CEN final report on stress tests, second confirmation of B767 use. Same as slide 12 of the AFCN "stress test" presentation of November 28, 2011. You will agree with me that, contrary to what some have told you, such clarifications are therefore in no way confidential. I therefore come back with my very simple calculation: since the kinetic energy released by the fall of a Boeing 747 is - at almost equal speed - 2.5 and 4 times greater, respectively, than that of a B767 and knowing that at the speed level, the evaluation took into account a speed at the time of impact of 150 m/s, whereas it appeared that at the time of impact, at least one of the aircraft of 11 September was flying at 260 m/s, kinetic energy varying like the square of speed, almost twice as high means a kinetic energy almost 4 times higher. Make the count yourself, with the size, the weight, the speed, the impact of a B747 could produce more than ten times more kinetic energy than the one tested in 2011. Given this information and this very simple calculation, are you still able to guarantee that a 747 will not be able to break the walls of the Tihange reactors and buildings?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u46	Mr Nollet, I would first like to refer to the AFCN website, which indicates 130 microsieverts. We also tested the French version.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u47	I'll show the document to your collaborator right after or he can come see himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u48	You may need to buy a new computer! Maybe we have a Nollet version!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u49	We're actually on two different pages. Your collaborator is on the "incidents" page and I am on the "INES surveys and rankings" page.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u50	As far as this question is concerned, you have already asked me several times in different forms this question of the impact of a plane fall. I therefore refer you to question No 4777, to which I answered on 10 June 2015. With regard to the confidentiality of certain data in the past, some input parameters for aircraft fall studies, such as aircraft types, have been made public for transparency purposes. However, the technical results of these studies have never been disclosed for obvious reasons of confidentiality. In the current climate, however, it appears that the input parameters (e.g. aircraft type, speed, inclination, fuel quantity, etc.) are now also considered confidential. There is a development in this area. So I can't confirm or invalidate the data you're making. I can confirm, however, that the latest studies have been based on commercial aircraft, which together represent the majority of aircraft flying over Belgian territory. It is also important to note that the calculations you set out in your question do not fully reflect the actual relationship with respect to the impact of larger commercial aircraft. In calculating the penetration impact of an aeroplane, the most important factor is not the total mass but rather the mass and density of the largest part, namely the engine of the aeroplane with the greatest penetration capacity. Therefore, it is not because the overall mass is dispersed but it is the most massive element of the aircraft, the engine, that determines the impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u51	Mr Minister, I fully agree that my calculation is basic, but it is done by lack of transparency and lack of information. That said, on the basis of what was made public at the time – I understand it is no longer so today – and knowing that new calculations have not been made, today, thanks to your answer, one can say that the tests have been carried out and validated on a B767. I'm going to take my information back from the aviation sector. I'm going to recalculate the most "impacting" part, the engine, in relation to the dispersion. Still it is that these B747, as they fly over Tihange – of course, there are other aircraft that also fly on which the tests have been made – they, it seems to me and you do not give the opposite information, are able to penetrate inside with damage that can not always be measured obviously but that could be catastrophic. I will therefore submit the elements that are now clear to a new analysis in view of this precision as to the point of impact and the density of this point of impact. But the conclusion does not change and it is really problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u52	Minister, what is the status of the adoption of the final nuclear crisis management plan? What changes or clarifications have you made to the plan as a result of our discussions in the subcommittee? You said you were waiting for the opinion of the European Commission. Did you get it? What's in it? What remarks? Can we have a copy of the opinion of the European Commission? Have you changed your plan to take it into account? If not, when is it planned, if it does not yet exist? Furthermore, as far as the distribution of iodine tablets is concerned, can you confirm to me, as Mrs De Block has claimed, that every citizen, wherever he or she lives in the country, will be able to obtain free and preventive packages of iodine tablets, even if he or she has nothing specific to justify his or her request in relation to the target audiences you have identified? It is not a pregnant woman, nor a parent, nor a grandfather, but only a citizen who wants to acquire these pills in a preventive way. Will there be access to it? I'd like you to confirm that. What pre-distribution will you do to communities such as schools, nurseries or sports clubs? How and when will these pre-distributions be realized?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u53	As part of the update of the nuclear emergency plan, most of the more than 550 comments made so far on the draft plan dating from the end of August 2016 have been evaluated by the drafting team composed of the coordinators of the emergency plan of the AFCN Crisis Centre and its subsidiary BEL V. The texts of the project are currently adapted to the results of this evaluation. As regards any changes to the contingency plan after the discussions in the sub-committee, I would refer you to my request of 10 January to the members of the sub-committee, asking them to provide me with their comments on this draft contingency plan within two weeks. So far, no comments have been made to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u54	Mr Minister, in the sitting I said "beyond what was said in committee", because there are things that have been said in committee. You have read the committee's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u55	I asked to formulate it. I repeated it a few weeks ago to Mr Calvo, who asked me the same questions, but I do not want to limit myself to these two weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u56	You have my remarks in the committee's report. I can send you the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u57	I would ask you to make your remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u58	I thought the committee report was enough for you. Should I send it to your co-worker?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u59	Yes. I have not yet received the opinion of the European Commission on this matter. My request for an opinion was registered with the Commission on 24 November. The Commission has three months to reply. So it's for the end of February. In this period of time, we would like to receive your comments and those of Mr Calvo. As soon as the opinion of the European Commission is available and depending on the need for possible adjustments to the text of the plan and the time it will take, if necessary, the crisis centre will present me as soon as possible with a new draft emergency plan which will then be submitted to the Federal Government for discussion. With regard to your second question about iodine tablets, as already mentioned on several occasions, the distribution of iodine tablets outside the 20-kilometre zone around nuclear facilities throughout the country is aimed at vulnerable and specific groups: pregnant women, children and breast-feeding women. But no one is excluded and I confirm Mrs De Block's words. The above groups are encouraged to go ahead and pick up tablets from nearby pharmacists. The fact that this additional pre-distribution is aimed at the protection of children, including in utero, is based on the fact that the risk of exposure to radioactive iodine decreases with the distance from the source. In addition, the risk of developing thyroid cancer by taking radioactive iodine decreases sharply with age. This is in line with the opinions I have received. By stating that no one is excluded, this means that grandparents also have the opportunity to go ahead and get iodine tablets for their grandchildren. This possibility will also exist for people who are not directly related to these target groups, although this is not encouraged. So everyone's entitled to it, but we're going to go to the target groups. Anyone who asks for tablets in the pharmacy will receive them. In addition, outside the 20-kilometre zone, pre-distribution of iodine tablets to communities is also planned for the specific target groups mentioned above. The terms and conditions will be further specified in consultation between the Minister of Public Health and myself. The campaign for the distribution of iodine tablets, scheduled for the end of 2017, will go hand in hand with an information campaign on nuclear risks where particular attention will be paid to information on the blocking of the thyroid gland via stable iodine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u60	Minister, I think we're moving forward. On the issue of the distribution of iodine pills – I am not talking here about communities because, here, I mean you need to refine things further – to the citizens, there is a positive step forward that I want to highlight. There is, in any case, a clarification: anyone who so wishes will be able to receive iodine tablets in a pharmacy, free of charge and preventively, not when a siren sounds or when there is an incident. This is a positive step forward. It's not a pre-distribution, I can hear it. It's limited to an area and an audience, but at least they'll be able to pick up these iodine pills for free, even if they're not part of the target audience. For target audiences, you will also take a proactive approach. I regret, of course, that the process is not pro-active for everyone, but I welcome the fact that it is made accessible to everyone. Taking advantage of the campaign, we'll say everyone can pick them up. I'll make sure to let you know, you can count on me. I see you smiling, you know what that means, too!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u61	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u62	For the rest, I will share my remarks and come back later on the issue of communities once the plan is defined. I also want to say it when things are clarifying and moving forward positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u63	Mr President, Minister, there is concern in the German border communes about the situation of the Tihange 2 nuclear reactor, which has thousands of cracks in its tank. This legitimate concern has returned to Berlin. The German nuclear gendarmerie therefore seems to want to analyse the risks himself in the event of a nuclear incident in the Walloon power station. Mrs Jadin is here and listens carefully. Do you confirm this decision? Why does the German gendarme not trust the Belgian gendarme in this matter? This is in any case a famous affront for our agency! Should a formal application be submitted to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency? Has she ever been? Do you have more information on the motivations, exact scope and timing of this counter-study? Will the results be made public? Mrs Jadin will be as attentive as I am, I am sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u64	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u65	Mr Nollet, first of all, I would like to make it clear that I do not agree with your comments concerning the confidence of the German gendarme in the Belgian gendarme, who are the result of your personal interpretation. Be aware that, for my part, I have complete confidence in the AFCN. And I don't think it's a question of German mistrust. As regards the German application, such an application was submitted by the BMUB (Bundesministerium für Umwelt, Naturschutz, Bau und Reaktorsicherheit). On 1 December 2016, at an ad hoc bilateral meeting between AFCN and BMUB, the two safety authorities assessed the potential radiological impact of a failure of the reactor pressure vessel at the Tihange 2 nuclear centre. At that meeting, BMUB orally expressed its wish to receive additional information on Tihange 2, so that it could draw up its own impact calculations. However, no formal request was made by BMUB to clarify or formalize this issue. They told us they wanted to ask more questions. As soon as we are in possession of these, we will be able to respond to them, as usual.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answer. You confirm that a decision on this matter has been taken but is not yet operational, as they will forward the request later. For the rest, our views are diverging as to the confidence we can have, but we will look at the work that will be done by our German friends and we will pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u67	Minister, at our exchange on January 18 you were telling me that before the amendment was introduced by royal decree of August 10, 2015, the possibility of a delayed dismantling already existed. Following this exchange, your collaborator informed me that it was the royal decree of 30 November 2011 that already provided for this. I immediately asked him what article was involved in this 2011 royal decree, but, despite two revivals, I still did not receive an answer to this question, which is why I come back to it and apologize. Minister, could you identify the article that, in the 2011 Royal Order, allowed and marked a delayed dismantling of our nuclear power plants? In addition, the 2015 amendment requires an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of delayed dismantling. Do you confirm that, if the disadvantages are greater than the advantages, there will be a refusal to postpone dismantling or is it just a question of drawing up a double list without drawing any conclusion from it? Who sees advantages and disadvantages and, above all, who determines, if the disadvantages are greater than the advantages, not to accept the request to postpone dismantling?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u68	Mr Nollet, the deferred dismantling was not mentioned as such in this royal decree. However, it was not prohibited even before the introduction of this article in 2015. The provisions concerning the authorisation procedure for dismantling are laid down in Article 17 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 on the general regulation for the protection of the population, workers and the environment from the danger of ionizing radiation. Although not mentioned, delayed dismantling is one of the possible dismantling strategies subject to an application for authorisation. Prior to the introduction of this provision, the possibility of delayed dismantling already existed. This new order merely added stricter conditions in the event that an operator chooses a deferred dismantling, including an obligation to justify this strategy and an adequate maintenance and monitoring programme that ensures the safety of the establishment during the period prior to the commencement of the dismantling. In the event that the operator opts for a deferred decommissioning, the competent authority, namely the King or the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN), will objectively assess the justification provided by the operator, including an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of the delayed dismantling compared to those of an immediate decommissioning, and an analysis of the implications for safety. The competent authority shall provide its decision on the basis of this justification. In accordance with Article 17 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 on the general regulation of the protection of the population, workers and the environment against the danger of ionizing radiation, two situations are observed: the dismantling of installations forming part of Class 1 establishments is subject to authorization by the King; the dismantling of installations forming part of Class 2 establishments is subject to authorisation by the Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u69	Minister, you are creating ex post facto justification, but I will review the 2001 Order. Never in the past, a delayed dismantling has been mentioned. This is part of the strategy of some nuclear operators to "give time". In France, for example, EDF has asked four of these plants to postpone the start of the decommissioning of the plant from 50 to 60 years. We must imagine the consequences of this. These plants will be dismantled in the 21st century! All this because they are in a difficult financial situation. I'm talking about EDF, not ENGIE Electrabel yet. Deferring to 50 or 60 years of age, with discount rates of 4.5, or even 4.6 or 4.7 in France (you come from the finance sector, you can see the interest on discount rates), allows them not to have to increase and, on the contrary, to reduce the provisions, since they rely on provisions that will be used much later. This obviously makes the financial framework much less robust. I fear that in Belgium, ENGIE, at one point, just before closing or before going into Bianca form, will proceed in the same way. That is why you have introduced this possibility. You say you don't. You say it already existed. I will read your answer carefully. I have no guarantee that, if the disadvantages are greater than the advantages, the decision will not be taken by the operator, but by the Federal Agency, which could maintain immediate dismantling because the disadvantages are greater. I plead that the legal framework should be strengthened and that it is not the operator who can choose, but the Federal Agency which refuses on the grounds that, although it is feasible, it would be more secure to do so right away. The Agency should be able to impose its views on the operator.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u70	Depending on the type, this is up to the Agency or the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u71	Who will judge pros and cons?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u72	I mentioned the criteria in my answer. The Agency or government must also justify itself against these criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u73	On this point, I will read your answer carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u74	Mr President, Minister, anti-alcohol controls on roads are an essential part of the fight against alcohol driving. The recent BOB campaign took place over a period of 68 days with more than 450,000 controlled drivers. "Only" 10 205 of them proved to be positive. Although impressive, these figures depend on different criteria, namely the location and time of the checks. On average, the percentage of drunk drivers varies from 5% at night to 1% per day, while the vast majority of checks are carried out during the day. The new technological means also allow drivers to easily avoid such checks. Minister, has your department read the BOB campaign figures? If so, what is its analysis? What is your opinion on anti-alcohol testing? Do you think they are effective? According to your department, when and how is it best to carry out anti-alcohol roadside checks? What is your department's analysis of the relevance of performing spectacular checks? On average, for a check, what police personnel are required? Are there sufficient staff to carry out police checks throughout the national territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u75	Mr President, dear colleague, between 25 November 2016 and 30 January 2017, 450,903 drivers were checked, which is equivalent to an average of 6,821 drivers per day. In addition, 2.26% of those under control were positive. This means that the negative trend continues. During the 2015–16 campaign, 2.5% of the controlled drivers were positive. The previous year, the percentage was 2.9. With the pre-test starting in all police units, the number of drivers checked has increased significantly in recent years. Proportionally, the number of people checked at night is low. Nevertheless, in many road accidents, driving under the influence of alcohol occurs more by night than by day. It can be seen, both during the night and during the day, that many drivers are driving under the influence of alcohol. As the volume of traffic is significantly lower at night, the frequency of drivers to be checked is also lower. Checks must therefore take place both during the day and at night to continue to give the impression that you can be tested at any time. Controls may be carried out in the framework of large static devices as well as by mobile control teams which remove drivers from traffic for control. Any control method has advantages and disadvantages. A large static control allows you to test any driver that goes through it, but because of the use of social media, positions are quickly made public. As the deployment of such control takes a long time, its frequent displacement is not obvious. Mobile controls, on the other hand, are unpredictable and very effective in some bottled points as on diverted lanes. The disadvantage is that the frequency of control (the number of people tested) is lower. The advantage is that such actions require fewer mobilised staff. The number of staff to be mobilized therefore depends heavily on the method of monitoring. For a large control system, these are several police teams. Mobile teams consist of two to three operational members. Engaging more capacity would positively influence the effectiveness of the campaign, certainly at night and on weekends. In addition, it should be borne in mind that, alongside these BOB campaigns, other important missions also require additional capacity. The level of threat identified, many events requiring additional protection, do not allow for the mobilization of additional personnel. In the meantime, every effort is being made to strengthen police capacity through new recruitment and training. Each year, a target is set with the participation of the Belgian Road Safety Institute and, this year, the target has again been achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u76	Minister, I congratulate you on that. I know the efforts made in this campaign and the results prove that. At the impossible, no one is bound. We can continue to strive to improve results with the means at our disposal. Perhaps in the future, new opportunities will come to us with new recruitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u77	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer's 16689 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u78	Mr President, Minister, you announced a reform of civil protection in your policy note. You said that in 2006, the Paulus Commission advocated this reform, but that implementation could take years. The staff is very worried about their future, especially since, at the end of last year, you announced the abolition of 4 barracks: 2 in Flanders and 2 in Wallonia. These agents whose effectiveness is no longer to be demonstrated, especially during very delicate and special missions, are trained to use very specific tools. Following the reform of regional fire services in response areas, they were underutilized and left in barracks without a mission order. The material becomes obsolete because it is very little used. A budget of 10 million had been promised, but they didn't see anything coming. Over the course of a few years, their numbers have also declined, and only volunteers are still recruited while the economy is not demonstrated by this system. Volunteers are paid as hourly wages. These officers regularly work in support of the judicial police or during prison strikes. They are also very important in natural disasters, such as the provision of drinking water. But beyond these missions, and as we live in a level of security or attacks, as recently in Maelbeek for de-incarceration, so my questions are as follows. Do you think it is prudent at the moment to close barracks knowing that the response time would be almost quadrupled? What is your agenda for this reform? The latter risking creating a real earthquake for the agents, for their careers and for their families, do you not fear to make it a generation sacrificed as it was during the police reform? Moreover, the Commission of Inquiry Attentats highlights flaws in the transmission of information, which was one of the foundations of police reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u79	Mr. Carcaci, repetitio is mater studiorum. I can repeat myself every week with the same questions. It is easy for Members to introduce identical questions every week. I remain polite and will therefore reformulate the same answers to the same questions that have been raised several times in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u80	Minister, you don't even have to do that. You can simply refer to the numbers and authors of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u81	Mr. Speaker, out of respect for the members of the House, I will give the answer. Repetitio is mater studiorum! The federal government's Kern has not yet decided on the number of positions. They currently number six and are expected to decrease in principle, although their number is not yet known. Contrary to what you say, we will guarantee a future for civil protection. During the civil protection reform, it was the great unknown. What are we going to do about civil protection? I now guarantee him a future! Civil protection is becoming a specialized second-line service in the security chain. Civil protection therefore has a necessary and guaranteed place and offers an exclusive complementary service. These will be complex tasks requiring specialized skills and/or long-term tasks. These could include, for example, CBRNs (chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear), Search & Rescue and Crisis Management & Heavy Support. It will become a reinforcement service in depth and more in width. Civil protection will have three tasks in the future. First, specialized tasks, by the equipment used or the skills required. Second, long-term tasks. Some disasters last longer than a day or two and we need teams that can perform tasks for a longer period of time. Finally, the CBRN tasks. There is therefore a clear definition of the tasks of civil protection. All emergency front-line tasks will be transferred to the emergency areas following the reform of the fire zones. Previously, this was not possible because there was a great difference in the level of professionalism between fire zones. Now, once the reorganization is actually implemented, capacity and professionalism are better. This means that the urgent tasks, first line, will be transferred to the relief areas, following the reform which is a political decision taken by the previous government. The current federal government implements these decisions and maintains the logic of this reform. Therefore: urgent tasks for emergency areas; specialized, long-term tasks and in the CBRN for civil protection. The file on civil protection reform was thoroughly prepared in 2016 by my administration and my cabinet. A comprehensive agreement on the various aspects has been prepared. He'll be in Kern soon. There are still several scenarios. It is premature to set a date for the political decision. As far as your third question is concerned, the final number after the reform has not yet been fixed. We already know that there will be fewer of them. This will depend on the actual division of labour and the number of operational units still to be defined. The reform will also ultimately result in fewer but more specialized staff. Civil protection personnel shall have the same status as fire zone personnel. So, again, civil protection officers are paid less than firefighters. So we're going to give them the same status as firefighters, so that we can make exchanges between the two bodies easier, for people who want to specialize, for those who want to change places of work, etc. We are reducing staff because we are going to transfer tasks from civil protection to fire areas. The transfer of the personnel who perform them is also justified. This reform will not result in a dry dismissal – not at all. Most of the staff will remain in service with a more attractive status, namely, that of personnel in the relief areas. However, career paths are planned for staff considering retraining, for example because the unit would disappear. For these individuals, solutions will be sought in emergency areas near or within another federal service. The same will apply to all existing units.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u82	Minister, thank you. Errare humanum is, since you started in Latin. I took note of your answers. I assure you, I will no longer come back with the same questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 16702 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u84	Minister, the technical and scientific police filed a notice of a national strike. It denounces a shortage of staff and a disinvestment in infrastructure for laboratories. The unions and my group have been concerned about the possibility of reducing the number of scientific laboratories. Different scenarios are under discussion, as you also mentioned, but nothing has yet been announced. What follow-up and what response do you intend to give to the filing of this notice of strike and the concerns expressed through it? What will be the consequences of the interruption of the activity in the technical and scientific laboratory following this strike taking place today? Since your last answer, could you say more about the scenario being considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u85	Dear colleague, the Negotiating Committee for Police Services (CNSP 408) is organized today to address, among other things, this notice of strike and the various points raised by the CSGP in its document. No interruption of the activity of technical and scientific police laboratory will be recorded because, as provided for in Article 126(2) of the Law of 7 December 1998, laboratory personnel will be requisitioned to ensure daily emission and permanence services within each technical and scientific police laboratory. With regard to the future accreditation of laboratories, several scenarios were analysed and compared during 2016. Very recently, additional information has been added to the file by the Federal Police. These will enable my services, as well as those of my colleague Koen Geens, to make a decision and communicate it as quickly as possible to the Commissioner General of the Federal Police. The federal police as a whole face capacity problems that need to be allocated according to priorities. In addition to this general situation, laboratories are also faced with the fact that many CALog level B staff members – this is the extinct setting within the lab – want to join the cadre of specialized police inspectors. They must therefore undergo training. The nine candidates currently in training will complete their unit internship from 1 April of this year and will be appointed on 1 July. Twenty candidates will complete their training in May 2018. A new recruitment of specialized lab police inspectors will be organized in the course of 2017. The Director-General of the Judicial Police is attentive to this situation and ensures that an equivalent minimum service is guaranteed throughout the country. Pending a decision in the context of the accreditation dossier, it shall therefore ensure that the available capacity is allocated among all the PJFs, taking into account all the parameters: the workload, the extent of the territory, etc. In addition, judicial directors are made aware of what lateral support can provide in the context of the problem. For this reason, they are encouraged to sign the protocols to help each other cope with the workload, including through a court of appeal. The judicial directors are currently conducting a national reflection on the rationalization of "crimes" permanences. As I said, we are increasing capacity, but it takes time. Specialized training takes time but is ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u86	Mr Minister, it will indeed take time for training, but if I understand correctly, you will be able to make further progress on this issue in consultation with Minister Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u87	Mr President, Minister, before the crossing into zones, the fire departments had a doctor within their bodies. Unfortunately, with the reform of civil security, the status of these doctors no longer exists. In addition, in the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 on the administrative status of operational personnel in emergency areas, the medical officer in service at the time of the entry into force of the Order may continue to raise his rank in an honorary capacity. Minister, what happens to these former body doctors? Why was there a body doctor for fire services before crossing into zones and why is this no longer necessary? Unlike nurses who now have zonal status, body doctors no longer exist. Would it not be opportune and conceivable to create an area doctor status?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u88	Mr Blanchart, prior to the passage into emergency zones, the communes were indeed obliged to provide, within the framework provided for their fire service, for the employment of a medical officer. It was a part-time volunteer or professional medical officer job, depending on the size of the fire department. Some communes voluntarily left the job vacant and wondered about the usefulness of maintaining a function that had lost many of its missions over the years. For example, pre-service medical examination had become an exclusive competence of occupational medicine. Another example was that medical absences could no longer be checked by a physician with a subordination relationship with the employer. As part of the reform, it was therefore decided not to resume the function of doctor in the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014 on minimum administrative and operational functions. The emergency zone may therefore provide for the function of doctor in its administrative personnel plan, but this is not an obligation. During the transition to emergency areas, the on-duty medical officers were transferred to the emergency area as administrative personnel. They are not operational personnel within the meaning of Article 103 of the Law of 15 May 2007 on Civil Security. However, as you point out, they can continue to raise their rank in an honorary capacity. As you know, the law of 15 May 2007 entrusts the area with the task of determining the status of its administrative staff. It is therefore up to the rescue zone to determine the status of a possible zone doctor, if it decides to maintain this function. If the function is not maintained or if the number of doctors transferred exceeds the number of doctors provided for in the zone, the Zone Council shall lay down transitional rules for transferred personnel, either by placing one or more jobs in extinction or by providing for reclassification or termination measures for permanent withdrawal of employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In fact, this is mainly a problem of representativeness of the staff who work as doctors. You know, like me, that they are still very useful on the ground, especially as part of the coverage of major events. Anyway, informally, doctors still operate in the areas. You therefore believe that the Zone Council can deliberate to formalize the function. This is good news. Having said that, I know that you are not responsible for this reform and I understand your difficulties. Minister, I will communicate your answer to the Zone Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic598x.u90	Subject to my mistakes, we have dealt with all the items for today, the agenda has been exhausted and the sitting has been raised.
