ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u1	Minister, the anti-avoidance directive of 12 July 2016 contains a general anti-abuse rule, in particular Article 6 of the Directive. For the purposes of calculating the tax due, a construction or a series of constructions should be constructed with one of the main objectives of obtaining a tax advantage that undermines the purpose or application of the applicable tax law and is artificial. The preamble to the Directive states that it is important to ensure that the general anti-abuse rules apply uniformly to domestic situations within the Union and to third countries, so that their scope and the results of their application do not differ in domestic and cross-border situations. Mr Minister, do you agree with me that this requires that the general anti-abuse provision in Article 344 of the Income Tax Code be amended to bring it into line with the Directive of 12 July 2016? If so, how will Article 344 be adapted? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u2	Mr Vanvelthoven, the deadline for transposing the anti-avoidance directive expires on 31 December 2018. We will, of course, introduce this. It is currently under examination whether, and if so, how, the anti-abuse provision of the Code needs to be effectively adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u3	Mr. Secretary, we'll wait and see. I also think it is right that this committee should have an exchange of views on this matter before our country or the government takes a position on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u4	Mr. Paul-Olivier Delannois will join us at about 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u5	Mr President, Minister, the personal tax declaration was extended to include the legal arrangements in 2016. The legal form and address of the legal arrangement must also be declared by the taxable person since the tax year 2016. From your answer to Parliament's question No. 1475 of 6 February 2017 shows that 1 567 declarations of a legal construction were submitted for the 2016 tax year. Data on the breakdown by legal form and jurisdiction were not yet available at the beginning of February because the operational services were still analysing these data. I assume that this analysis has now been completed and that this data is available. That is why I would have liked an answer to the next question. Can you explain to us the analysis of the operational services on the declarations for the 2016 tax year that indicate a legal construction and divide it into, on the one hand, the legal form and, on the other hand, the jurisdiction where the legal construction is located?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u6	Mr Vanvelthoven, I have to tell you that the analysis you mentioned earlier in February is still going on today. This is because additional data will be available all the time. As soon as there is a meaningful conclusion that allows us to draw meaningful conclusions, I will be happy to present it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u7	Mr. Secretary, if the analysis isn't complete, she won't be ready. I can't add much to that. It's about the cayman tax. I think it is important that we get the necessary analyses and can discuss them here. A lot has been said and written about that caiman tax. I think that an analysis can only help us to check whether this is being handled correctly by taxpayers. I hope that you will follow that up with your administration and that you will be behind this in order to complete the analysis in the near future or in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u8	Mr President, Mr Minister, my question mainly concerns the border workers, in particular the Luxembourg border workers. According to several accountants and accountants, it appears that the Tax-on-web tax calculation program for the 2017 tax year does not properly apply the charge of exempt dependency supplements when one of the spouses receives higher foreign income. This is surprising, especially since it would appear that the program for previous years is available and functional. It was intended that the program would be adapted for fiscal year 2017 in such a way that, when the common tax is established, the exemption supplement referred to in section 132 of the Code is charged to the spouse who has the highest income, unless the charge of these supplements in the other spouse's account is more favourable. As a result of the circular, the calculation is likely to generate claims, and therefore unnecessary additional work for the administration and taxpayers. Minister, can you clarify the situation? What about the program for fiscal year 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u9	Mr.President, Mr. Piedboeuf, the 2017 calculation program is being adapted to take into account the directives contained in Circular 2017/C/31 of May 18th. It will apply by the end of October of this year at the latest. Enrolment of the required declarations will begin at that time. Taxpayers will therefore not have to file a claim. Priority was given to adapting the calculation programs of previous tax years to deal with outstanding claims as quickly as possible. The adjustment of the 2017 calculation program is much more complex because it is a question of determining, in an automated way, the most favourable calculation for the taxpayer, whereas the programs of previous years are limited to manual optimisation, only possible in the event of a claim.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u10	That's perfect, Minister. When we all get there, we go in the right direction and everything's fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u11	Mr President, Minister, you have included in both the government agreement and in your previous policy notes and in your major 2015 anti-fraud plan that you would work on the full codification, harmonisation and simplification of all recovery rules and debt recovery procedures in relation to all tax or public law claims. We have always supported and welcomed this idea. I believe that it can effectively add a great deal to the administrative simplification and simplification of taxation if the rules and procedures are simplified and the various tax measures are uniform. According to the studies, this could also reduce the huge amount of EUR 18 billion of outstanding tax debts. This is an additional advantage, in addition to the general simplification. We can certainly use that money for our budget. Hence my questions. First of all, does it intend to standardise the tax procedures? Can you clarify how the work on the Code of Recovery is going? Do you think that much progress has been made? What is the exact state of affairs? When is the final phase scheduled? And when can the texts come to Parliament? Secondly, will VAT procedures also be unified? It is important that there should also be further simplification in this area, particularly in the recovery and recovery procedures. Thirdly, and finally, what timing has been set for the government's consideration and then for Parliament's consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, 18 billion is indeed a fine amount. The Finance Administration, together with the Cabinet, has prepared a number of draft texts, which will be discussed literally in the coming weeks through the regular procedures. The preparatory texts, to which I have just referred, are based on the principle of harmonising the provisions of the various codes and on the provisions on the collection and recovery of non-fiscal claims entrusted to the FPS Finance, on the rules governing the collection and recovery of income taxes, on VAT and, as it is called, on the various tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u13	Mr Minister, I understand that there is a lot of work going on and that, I presume, this will be discussed within the government and in However, it will still take a few months for the texts to be submitted effectively to Parliament. I hope that they can nevertheless be dealt with here before 2018. We must all work on it, all the more so because it could generate a great deal of revenue and we are all talking about the simplification of taxation. The dossier could really contribute to the simplification of taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u14	Mr Minister, the declaration of company income may require an explanation of 275F. That explanation shall be a declaration of payments made to States which do not effectively and substantially apply the OECD standard in the field of information exchange or to States without or with low taxation. As an example, I referred in my question to purchases or payments in Hong Kong. For such purchases or services, accompanying invoices must be received with all necessary information. These are then included in the Explanatory Memorandum 275F. However, when a company incurs local charges and pays by credit card, such as hotel charges, travel costs or other accommodation costs, there is a problem in completing or not completing that explanation 275F. The company then has no details of the payment, as the money is taken from the account by the issuer of the credit card. Thus, one does not, as it were, pay directly to the person entitled to the payment of the service provided or the goods sold. So the company has no idea which account, which bank or which country exactly that money goes to. Therefore, the company has no or limited information from the actual supplier, often in a language that is not always readable. The legislation on the Explanatory Memorandum 275F shows that the purpose of this declaration is to make tax controls on payments to tax havens more efficient and, mainly, to detect artificial structures designed to avoid tax in Belgium. With respect for that objective, I still have a number of questions. What can companies do to properly include locally incurred costs paid by credit card in the notes 275F? Is there any tolerance if such expenditure is not included or incompletely in the Explanatory Memorandum 275F? Is the legislation on this expenditure and the obligation to declare with explanatory note 275F sufficiently clear or do you consider that there may be a need for adjustments to the circular?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u15	Mrs Van Cauter, if the total amount of payments made during the taxable period to persons established in certain States (the States to which you are referring) reaches EUR 100 000, those payments must indeed be entered by the company in the form 275F. For the payments made by credit card, the statement of expenditure which the issuer of the credit card periodically delivers to the company is undoubtedly a useful source of information for the correct completion of that form. As the legislation relating to the problem you mentioned has a broad scope, there is indeed no provision for any tolerance. I believe that the legislation is clear enough not to immediately think of a change. I do not think that a change is immediately necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that the explanatory statement you are giving today will make it possible in practice to fill out the forms correctly. One could interpret the words in the circular in such a way that the statement of expenditure would be insufficient to comply with that obligation of information, but you confirm that this is sufficient. I believe that in practice this will provide the necessary clarity and manageability when completing the form. That was the point of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u17	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about a situation in the press which I am strongly concerned about. This is the story of an 80-year-old woman whose daughter has been missing for 23 years. Since the judicial investigation at the time could not reach conclusions confirming or invalidating that the missing girl had died, her mother receives an annual warning-extract from the tax administration to supplement to the attention of her daughter. However, each year, it refers to the administration the documents attesting to the disappearance. A fine was even sent to him because the statement had not been signed by the disappeared person! You will understand that this annual reminder on the part of the tax administration has no meaning and weighs on the morale of a grieving mother. Minister, this surreal situation leads me to ask you the following questions. Is it normal for a person who has been missing for more than 20 years and for whom the judicial investigation has not given anything to receive an annual tax return to be completed? What is the rule in this respect? What steps should be taken to ensure that the tax administration ceases this procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u18	Mr Delannois, persons whose disappearance has been reported are normally specifically mentioned in the population register. This information is reflected in the signs of my administration and has the effect of suspending the sending of mail to the person concerned. In the case you refer to, it is likely that the status of disappeared person is not mentioned in the national register. As my administration cannot replace the competent authorities in this area, it is necessary to contact the municipality in which the disappeared person is entered in the population register in order to bring the mention of his disappearance to the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u19	Minister, I would like to make it clear that this is not a person who is registered with my municipality. So I can't tell you if she's listed in the population register as a missing person. I'll check with the administration. I am reassured to hear that there is a way to avoid this type of situation. Admit that this is something very difficult to live for the mother. If there is a solution, I will ensure that it is implemented. Socially speaking, this lady may not have taken some steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u20	Minister, according to some observers, the European Central Bank is holding a rate that is too broad and too lax. Among other things, my good colleague Sander Loones has repeatedly opposed too much quantitative easing. Buying-up of bonds runs out of real value through artificially low interest rates. What has been the impact on the interest costs of the Belgian budget? Suppose the European Central Bank had done no or much less quantitative easing, how much more interest charges would the federal government, Entity I, have paid since the beginning of the legislature? What is your political attitude towards this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u21	There is no doubt that the interventions of the monetary authorities..... I think we all agreed on this.... were crucial in curbing what we experienced in 2007 to 2009, which at some point looked particularly frightening, and in fighting the subsequent severe recession, not to mention the sovereign debt crisis in Europe. Only history will determine whether the accommodating monetary policy can be reduced in time. What I observe is that the valuations of many financial assets but also of real estate again reach reasonable levels. As far as the impact on the budget is concerned, that is a very complex exercise. After all, we need to break down what evolution would have been if there had been no such policy, which is not so obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u22	Higher interest charges.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u23	How much higher interest charges would we have had if there had not been this type of monetary policy? We must then first make assumptions as to what the substitute monetary policy might have been and what its impact on interest rates might have been. Those are two nuances that need to be made. I have asked the National Bank to make that analysis, but I have not yet received the results. That will teach us a lot, but if we want to do this seriously, that is a very delicate analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u24	Minister, I note that you are not a great supporter of quantitative easing, not after the crisis years. For the real impact on the budget, we await the response of the National Bank. Hopefully that will come within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u25	Minister, many companies could have avoided bankruptcy if they had not fallen into a spiral of debt. This spiral is not only caused by high court bailiff fees, but sometimes also by the tax authorities, which still apply very high interest rates when a company in difficulty pays or cannot pay its VAT, tax and social charges. Of course, the tax authorities must be able to collect what is due to them, but I wonder what policy is being pursued with regard to companies which could or might not have been able to get out of the difficulties if they did not find themselves completely in a debt spiral. In the Netherlands, I read, a recovery interest rate of 4 % would be applied. Then why is that percentage with us, depending on whether 7% or 9.6 %, almost double the percentage in the Netherlands? Our interest rates appear to be from the 1970s or 1980s. Is it not possible, Minister, that it would be better to make the negligence interests more proportionate to current interest rates, or at least in relation to interest rates in our neighbouring countries, which also occasionally happens in other areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u26	Mr Bogaert, you are quite right to point out the problems of interest. Of course, it's a double-edged sword. The sword cuts differently, depending on which side of the barrier one sits. We are faced with a similar problem when it comes to advance payments. As far as advance payments are concerned, we have put things in order by changing the formula that is being applied. The omission and moratorium concerns are contained in the corporate tax reform, which is now being finalised. I would therefore ask you not to have unnecessary preliminary discussions about whether we can discuss this issue at the time when we are discussing the reform of corporate taxation. I will then be able to tell you in concrete terms what the adjustment of both the negligence and the moratorium interests will look like.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u27	Those interest rates are going down, that's what I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u28	They're being adapted to today's reality. But it remains a double-edged sword.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u29	Because you're less intuitive?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u30	Yeah, there's less humanization and less collection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u31	That's right. It is true that the state treasury needs to be monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u32	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u33	This could be an exam question. What do you think is a structural budget deficit, Mr Bogaert?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u34	Mr President, I refer to this in my question. I once got Minister Reynders mad when I asked him an oral multiplechoice question. So I'll never do that again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u35	I never get mad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u36	He was really angry back then. We were in the opposition then, and that was of course a slightly different position. Minister, I would like to ask what your opinion is on the definition of structural deficit. Some mean that we do not have one-off effects and effects of the economic situation, so that we get a more pure and fair definition of balance on the budget. It is, of course, important to determine what is a normal economic situation. If I am not mistaken, an economic growth of 2.5% will be taken as a reference point. However, it is increasingly clear to neutral observers that the trend growth is no longer 2.5 %, but unfortunately it is close to 1.5 %, 1.8 % or 2 %. Of course, the impact is big. The higher one assumes trend growth, the lower the fiscal bar will be. The lower one assumes trend growth, the higher one sets the bar for the country in question. If the trend growth is estimated at 1%, then we are already above it and we should already be stricter. However, as long as the trend growth is at 2.5 %, one is a bit laxer and more indulgent because the bar is structurally lower. This is, of course, a political question, as well as a question of information, because whether or not to be more lax has a lot of implications. What do you think is the relevant trend growth that Europe should take into account for Belgium? I am referring in this question to the trend growth for Belgium, but of course I am interested in other countries as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u37	Mr President, Mr Bogaert, a structural approach to the balance corrects the balance to be observed on the one hand for the impact of the economic situation and on the other hand for the budgetary impact of one-off and temporary factors. The correction for the impact of the economic cycle is made on the basis of an indicator of the Belgian economy's position in the cycle and an indicator of the sensitivity of the budget balance expressed as a percentage of GDP for this cycle, set by the European Commission in 2014 at 0.61 for Belgium. The cyclical position of the economy is expressed as a "Crucial output gap', which is equal to the difference between the output level observed in that year and the potential output level, expressed as a percentage of the potential output level. The concept of potential output captures the level of output if all the factors of production in the economy are at their potential level, for example, if all people who meet what the labour market requires are also effectively employed in employment. As this is by definition an impossible variable to observe, it is important to note that the potential output level and its growth are always estimated. I can assure you, by the way, that there are great discussions on this at European level, where younger economies, for example Slovenia as a concrete case, often have very large fluctuations in the estimation of output gap. After all, the definition of a young economy is that many things are still changing, and if that is still a small economy, a few investments are sometimes sufficient to cause all kinds of shifts there. As a result, for example, the derivations to the structural deficit of such a country can give numbers which, certainly as a political fact, are rather annoying. Within the Belgian context, estimates of potential growth are often used by the Federal Planning Bureau, the basis also for budgets. The Federal Planning Bureau uses a very similar methodology, almost the same as the European Commission, but uses its own data sets and projections as input. Both the Federal Planning Office and the European Commission are currently estimating potential growth between 1.3 % and 1.4 %. They're also very close together, and you were pretty close.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u38	Mr President, Minister, that means that we are in principle above it, that we are in a good economic situation compared to the reference point 1.3 or 1.4 %. The reference point of growth is lower than I thought, namely between 1.3 and 1.4 %. It seems to me that, in the current economic conditions in Belgium, we can look at this in a structural or nominal way. At the moment, we might as well look at it in nominal terms. That would help us more than if we looked at it structurally. I mean the opposite. It would help us to merge the definitions. Personally, I think it would be better to look at the nominal deficit from a certain point of view. After all, one can make debts and still have a structural balance. That is strange, because only billions of euros will always be added to the debt that will ever have to be paid off. In the current economic situation, we are better able to switch to nominal terms, including politically. It communicates better with the population. What's the hole? Structurally then comes in second order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u39	Mr President, Mr Bogaert, I can partly agree with you in your reasoning, also because, when the government is implementing a number of reforms, there is a good chance that there will be an upward puncture of potential growth. For example, because of what is happening on the labour market, people who were more or less lost to the labour market before the reforms can now get their place on the labour market. This creates an effect on potential growth and on the output gap. I would therefore not be surprised, although I cannot do anything about it in advance, that, on the basis of the reforms, we will soon have a potential growth rate which is again higher than the aforementioned 1.3 or 1.4 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u40	In that case, you'll punish yourself somewhat. (...) that figure and the more stringent Europe is in structural terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u41	That is true, but that is not the only thing that matters when it comes to implementing reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u42	This is where I stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u43	I remember the discussion in the 1970s. Minister Geens was then Minister of the Budget. I used to work in his cabinet as a speechwriter. Every week he went to speak. The budget deficit had to be calculated as a full employment budget. He then actually justified what exploded in 1975 or 1976, namely that it was because of unemployment, unemployment benefits, lower growth and less revenue, but that the budget was actually in balance. He sold that story for a number of years, until when all that was no longer justifiable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u44	Mr President, that approach was the precursor to the current approach. This was focused on employment (...). What we are doing now is actually extending that approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u45	At the time, it was called a full employment budget, which is a very dangerous route. If the budget is calculated in this way, it can never be restored. This will only be possible in a state of high economic growth, which will probably not be done. That is a comment, however.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u46	With your questions, do you remain a little in the spirit of the Verhofstadt Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u47	I hope I'm not driving a landmine all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u48	You're still in the opposition a little bit?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u49	I'm compensating the tone of the questions a little bit. Minister, during the Verhofstadt government, the aim was to achieve the balance of the budget by effecting a number of tax debts and then selling them to large financial institutions. It was often typical that the recovery by the Belgian tax authorities simply continued. What are the results of these collections so far? Were these results better than expected or worse than planned and passed on to the financial institutions with which they were then contracted? I saw those big contracts back then. They were fucking contracts. What are the contractual consequences of the effective collection for the two or more contractual parties? Has the federal government done a good thing about this overall? What is your political attitude towards the use of securitisation and specifically selling the affected tax debts? Is the federal government still in on that today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u50	Mr Bogaert, the results of the recovery of the affected claims were previously communicated in response to your own oral question of 8 June 2011. In the meantime, it should be noted that the three securitisation operations that have taken place were finally concluded by the Debt Agency, in accordance with the applicable procedure and rules. The last official closure operation took place in 2015. This means that all claims that have been the subject of the three securitisation operations were at that time recovered by the competent departments of the FPS Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u51	What are the financial consequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u52	Since recovery is complete, I believe that the final net effect is zero.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u53	Once recovered, it is possible that the contractual parties received part of the proceeds. This might lead us too far now. Maybe I should come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u54	I can always ask for more details on the nominal results of the recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u55	As the recovery went ahead, I wonder if the tax authorities would have any interest in continuing with the recovery. At some point a reckoning was made. Everything may have been contracted, but we are of course interested in how this ended and who got what part of the cake.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u56	I'll get more details. This may take a while, because this will require a lot of research, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u57	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Verherstraeten's 20882 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u58	Mr Narjes, in reply to Question No 5, by Mr Narjes, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 20584 you said that our country has submitted a request for renewal with regard to Article 4 of the Anti-Avoidance Directive of 12 July 2016. This means that you argue that, with regard to the limitation of the deductibility of interest, our country has national rules that are as effective as the limitation of interest rates laid down in the directive. This also means that the deferred transposition of Article 4 of the aforementioned Directive cannot have a significant budgetary impact. Do you confirm that no budgetary impact is envisaged for the transposition of the directive on the limitation of interest relief? If not, what short-term and cruising impact have you recorded in the table by which you demonstrated to your colleagues this summer that the corporate tax reform is fiscally neutral?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u59	Mr Vanvelthoven, you are asking a question about how we will transpose into our national law the directive of 12 July 2016 laying down rules to combat tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market. The limitation of the deductibility of interest is an important measure in the whole of the corporate tax reform, which is currently being completed. I would therefore ask you to conduct this debate, which is very legitimate, at a time when the whole of the corporate tax project is ahead of us, which will take place in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u60	Minister, I think it is a little too easy to postpone everything for you now. I understand that that decision has been taken, in particular that you have submitted a request for an extension. This means that you believe that we already have an effective rule in this area. Once that decision has been taken, the budgetary impact of this must be known, mustn't it? That's exactly my question. What is the budgetary impact of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u61	The budgetary impact will be reflected in the financing table of the corporate tax reform as this measure has been withdrawn there. The budgetary impact lies in the corporate tax reform, where every measure obviously has an impact on the final budgetary outcome. Because all this clearly belongs in the sphere of corporate taxation, it is grouped into the reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u62	I understand that the reform of corporate taxation has not yet been worked out in detail, that texts still need to be fine-tuned. I understand that, but you have made a decision that you have communicated to Europe. The moment you decide on this is known what the consequence is. I will have to come back to that, because you do not seem to want to give the answer to that today, but I do not think it is right for you to move it because that decision was taken here. I understand that corporate tax still needs to be fine tuned, but a decision has been taken here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u63	This is a decision that comes with a certain timing in the budget debate, in particular the timing with which this measure is inserted throughout the corporate tax financing table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u64	I can't believe you're making a decision if you don't know what the financial consequences are.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u65	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u66	You're not telling us, that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u67	Because it's part of corporate tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u68	The question is about payments to tax havens, including Dubai, and about the discussion on double taxation treaties.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u69	Mr President, you have already asked a general question on this subject in plenary last Thursday. I want to ask more specific questions now. Mr Minister, my question is indeed about the EUR 82 billion in payments to tax havens, which were declared last year. Some 62 billion of them went to Dubai tax haven, at least according to De Standaard. Most of the payments to people in Dubai would come from one company. The IRS would have confirmed that to the newspaper. Mr. Secretary, can you confirm this information? Has this information given rise to a tax check? If so, what was the result? If there has been no control at the company concerned, will you still give the order? Are you prepared to renegotiate the double taxation agreement with the United Arab Emirates in order to counter double non-taxation? Do you agree with me, if there is no effective tax paid in another country, that there is no good reason to exempt profits in Belgium? Are you prepared to review all conventions and renegotiate them in cases where there is a risk of double non-taxation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u70	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, in relation to your first question, I can confirm that your information is in line with reality. I would like to stress that this is about payments and not about profits or anything like that. However, I confirm what you just said. As far as your second question is concerned, there has not yet been a check on the declaration of this large payment to Dubai, but I would like to make it quite clear, Mr Vanvelthoven, that the time limit for monitoring this has not yet expired, and in other words is still running. Then I come to your third question. The power of control of a given company is delegated to the tax administration. It is the CAF service that makes an assessment on the basis of the company's risk profile in this respect. The level of the amount of the payment is a factor involved in the final assessment of the administration, at least I assume that a check on the file in question is appropriate, although the nature of the payment seems to me to be more important than the mere amount. I can answer the following questions to your last three questions. A further analysis of payments from Belgium to Dubai will have to show whether and to what extent the double taxation agreement between Belgium and the United Arab Emirates of September 1996 is effectively used to avoid or evade taxes and what is the best way to deal with it: using existing national measures, adapting national law or negotiating the double taxation treaty. Apart from that, Belgium will contact all relevant partner countries with a view to adapting the double taxation conventions to the minimum standards laid down in the BEPS Convention, in particular by including a general anti-abuse clause. This should allow Belgium to effectively and effectively combat cases of double non-taxation or reduced taxation through tax evasion or evasion structures. Since the double taxation treaties with the States which, like Belgium, signed the multilateral BEPS Convention are automatically adapted to these minimum standards, Belgium will contact all countries that have not signed this multilateral treaty, including, of course, the United Arab Emirates. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Belgium is taking the measures on the so-called CFC, Controlled Foreign Company, as included in the European Anti-Avoidance Directive, into account in the corporate tax reform. I also pointed out on Thursday that this will allow Belgium to include the profits of untaxed or undertaxed fortunate 12.5 % of Belgian companies in Belgian taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u71	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is indeed important to analyse the double taxation treaty with the United Arab Emirates, but also with the other partner countries. This is a recommendation which will undoubtedly be included in the conclusions of the Panama Commission. We will support you in that regard, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u72	Minister, the government states that the introduction of the mobility budget is neutral for the budget because the mobility budget will be treated fiscally and parafiscally in the same way as the company car. Since the scheme can only be applied by workers who surrender their current company car, the number of beneficiaries cannot in principle increase. However, a number of situations are conceivable where there are budgetary costs for the government. I am thinking, for example, of an employee who had a company car with his previous employer, but no longer with his new employer, who does offer it to other employees, for example. I would also like to give an example of the employee who has several commercial cars, for example a small one and a large one, where he converts the large company car into a mobility budget and then redeems the small company car for a large one, without impact on the mobility budget. Minister, I would like to hear from you whether you have any information that allows an assessment of the above examples. Could that have a budgetary impact? Will the mobility budget be excluded for people with more than one company car?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u73	Mr Vanvelthoven, I will begin with your second question, because I can answer it more specifically. The mobility budget will not necessarily be excluded for workers with more than one company car. As far as your first question is concerned, we finally approved it in the government last week. Everything is now on its way here very quickly, so that we can soon have the discussion of its budgetary impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and look forward to the texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u75	Minister, you have repeatedly indicated that you are not in favour of the fairness tax. As a result of my previous question No. 19664 on the ruling of the European Court of Justice on fairness tax, you carefully confirmed that a repair is possible following that judgment, but that you wished to await the judgment of the Constitutional Court before proposing any legislative changes. The agreement on corporate tax reform does not mention the fairness tax, at least not in the notices published. The chairman of the VBO recently stated in an interview that this was one of the construction errors in the agreement. In reply to my question No. 20670 asked you not to be able to answer detailed questions concerning the reform of corporate taxation. I shall come back to this, Minister, because I do not think that the question of whether or not the fairness tax is retained is a detail. It's something that's stopped or not. That is why I am asking you the simple question of whether the fairness tax is being abolished or not. It is also possible that the government has not yet taken a decision. As far as the figures are concerned, I asked you how much the individual attack on the fairness tax in recent years was.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u76	Mr Vanvelthoven, the fairness tax is indeed still in the whole of corporate tax reform. I do not, of course, need to remind you that we have had a legal problem there that has to be resolved and that can probably be solved. So I can confirm that the fairness tax is in the corporate tax reform. Once again, I must ask you to have a more concrete, substantive discussion on this at that time. I agree with the President once again when he says that the discussion on corporate tax reform will be a very interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u77	Thank you, Minister. The figures I asked for should be given to me on occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u78	As soon as I have them, I'll get them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u79	Minister, the anti-avoidance directive of 12 July 2016 contains provisions on the CFC rules. The Directive does not provide for an exception for the transposition of Article 5 on the CFC rules. The Directive requires Member States to adopt, by 31 December 2018, the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with it and to apply those provisions from 1 January 2019. However, under the Summer Agreement, the government communicated that the CFC rules will not apply until 2020. In my humble opinion, this is a breach of the provisions of the directive. Again, I would like to say that this question is separate from the details of the Summer Agreement. I would like to hear from you, Minister, whether the government has indeed decided that the CFC rules will only apply by 2020 and not, as provided for in the directive, from 1 January 2019. What's the reason for the delay? Have you informed the European Commission of this in a concrete and formal manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u80	Mr Vanvelthoven, I have indeed heard you say that you know that it is in the corporate tax reform. That's right, I'll confirm that again. There have been good reasons to do so by 2020. On that occasion, I will also be pleased to explain it in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u81	Minister, you seem to want to increase the tension!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u82	I worked for the media once.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u83	With some goodwill, you could reply to this today. Of course, we'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u84	We welcome two guests, Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and Mr Kristof Calvo, who would like to ask a budgetary technical question, or a more political question on the Marc Stockbroekx case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u85	Mr President, Minister, the programme on this subject drew our attention to the fact that, in a decision of yours, the tax control of the use of the VAT exemption was outsourced by diplomats to a figure on which there is no doubt. For example, the prosecutor said about him that he is at the top of his list for breaches of accounting law and bankruptcy law. The same person was described by the Brussels appeal court as a dangerous antisocial personality. He was convicted of abusing trust there. Of course, that raises questions. How is it possible for such a person to be placed in a position of trust to exercise control over the VAT exemption for diplomats? That is why I have a number of questions for you, which I would like to have a detailed answer to in the reply. First of all, how many contacts have there been with yourself and/or your cabinet? I would have liked to have been given details. Were they personal contacts? On what day? Was that by e-mail or by phone? Secondly, how many contacts have there been between the administration and Mr Stockbroekx? Thirdly, at how many meetings on the new VAT regime for diplomats, with members of your cabinet and/or administration, was Mr Stockbroekx present? Fourthly, as I have heard from the media, you did not know that the person concerned had been convicted. In your party, however, he must be very well known. After all, there is an article from Trends, a weekly that you are sufficiently well-known. The person concerned was then chairman of the N-VA division Borgerhout and had to resign there. You have a cabinet with a lot of N-VA people, which I don't blame you for. We would be very surprised if no one knew the history of Mr Stockbroekx. Is it correct that the man was referred to you by your colleague, Minister Jan Jambon? Fifthly, which screening was carried out prior to the authorisation of the VAT regime for diplomats? Finally, I have to say to you, Minister. I have already asked you about Practicali earlier this year. I have seen that last week or the week before, my colleague Mr Vanvelthoven asked you a question about the visit you had accepted from someone who was in an important tax dispute with the BBI, namely Mr Sarens. Now we see this here. Here's what I'm wondering. Do you impose certain deontological rules, ethical rules or rules of good governance on your cabinet employees? One of these rules seems to me to be that only very reliable people are considering the possibility of outsourceing tax audits. Another rule is that a minister and a cabinet are not in contact with people who are in dispute with the BBI. Do you have rules of good governance, deontology or ethics that you apply to yourself and your cabinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u86	Mr President, I am somewhat surprised that Mr Van der Maelen and I are the only ones who are asking questions about this, because I suspect that we are not the only ones who have seen the report in question. That reportage raises a lot of questions. The man in question has gathered a nice palmares. That palmares has also been known for some time. This is also my first question, Minister. How does such a man come into contact with you? Mr Van der Maelen has already referred to Trends in 2010. I don't know if you were still editor-in-chief back then. When N-VA Minister claims that you and your cabinet were not aware of the profile of the person concerned, it seems doubtful to me. I believe the male's profile was well known, especially in N-VA circles. You have done everything you can to minimize the contacts in response to the reportage of Terzonder. However, in the meantime, there are elements that show that there has been intensive cooperation. I have an e-mail conversation that has also been published on the internet from October 2016 between a cabinet employee and the person in question. This shows that there was cooperation on the theme and design in question. In that e-mail there is also a personal meeting. Did that meeting happen? Did you personally contact the man in question as a minister? I have a number of assumptions about this, but I would like to invite you to be transparent about it yourself. The system itself, then. It is about the VAT exemption for diplomats. In the meantime, if I am not mistaken, three companies have received such authorization or authorisation. You said that the new system is more efficient and more fraud-proof. I note that Mr Stockbroekx's company, as the only one of the three companies that received this authorisation, offers a service on its website in which VAT can be immediately exempted at the time of purchase. If I am not mistaken, this goes against the new rules. What's your attitude on the matter? The person you were working with would now set up a system that just went against those new rules. I must certainly address a topic with you as a former journalist, namely the attack you and your cabinet have launched against the reportage, by calling it tendentious coverage. This fits in the corporate style of the N-VA: either it is the fault of the left, or of the media. On the other hand, sweeping in front of your own door is much rarer. On what do you base this suspicion of tendentious coverage? Ultimately, this reportage is based on facts, figures, emails, meetings and the profile of the man in question. I'd like some explanation on that, too. Finally, I believe that it will certainly not be the last time we come back to this. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to share all your contacts with Parliament, as well as all correspondence and e-mails. Perhaps we will have to come back to this later. In the last part of my question I would like to look ahead anyway. I have already called for a general framework on a transparency register. It is about being transparent about the contacts that a cabinet and a minister has with civil society. That doesn't always have to be negative contacts. I assume that contacts with crooks are more of an exception than a rule. I have also specifically argued in favour of your cabinet in this respect. The Practicali case, on which a lot of questions can be asked, has already been mentioned. As a result of the Summer Agreement, I also found it very remarkable that many tax consultants had the information very quickly. Officially, we have not yet received a single text on corporation tax. Two days after the Summer Agreement, however, the information was on at least three websites of tax consultancy firms from a to z. So this is a cooperation that I do not quite like. I am therefore quite sure in my question. If there is no general transparency register in the government, on which I have questioned the Prime Minister several times, then I would ask you to at least introduce it for your cabinet. The Finance Office deals with very sensitive matters. Following recent events in a number of files, this may be at least the beginning of a solution in your cabinet. I hope to hear a little more about this today, although I suspect that, depending on your answer, we will have to come back to this later. I would like to invite you to be complete and correct at this stage, as new elements may always emerge.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my detailed reply with an explanation of the substance of the matter. What exactly is this about? You know that diplomats are subject to a specific VAT regime. They shall be exempt from their purchases for personal or official use under certain conditions. In practice, the exemption is carried out by electronic verification by authorised intermediaries issuing an e-certificate. The use of such an e-certificate has been in place since 2012. The administrative handling of the procedure for obtaining the VAT exemption is carried out with the so-called authorised companies. This is also the case in other Member States. It is therefore not right that we have introduced some new system or would be the only Member State to apply such a system. With us, the first such authorised companies, including the company endorsed here, have been recognised and active since 29 June 2012. Over the past few days, the media has given the impression that the tax authorities would outsource tax controls and that this is a disgrace. If that is a disgrace, it has been the case for years and throughout Europe. The fact is that the undertakings concerned are not, to put it mildly, given an authorisation. They must follow precise procedures and comply with strict conditions. What is true, however, is that the existing system, which we inherited, was too susceptible to fraud, that too few verification times were built in and that monitoring in the tax administration was inadequate. We have changed this by opening that specific limited market to other new players and by imposing stricter rules on the granting and retention of authorisations. My administration launched this in 2015, which was further developed in concrete terms in conjunction between the policy cell and the administration. The new regulation that we have worked out has made it more fraud-proof. The Finance Inspectorate itself states that this was absolutely necessary. However, I have not heard a word about this in the press. In developing the enhanced regime, we regularly informed all the actors concerned, in this case the three authorised companies, i.e. the bvba Red All Belgium, the bvba Diplomatic Card Services Belgium and the NV Forax, as well as Comeos, the umbrella sector organisation. It seems to me that it is not only logical but also very desirable that we should inform the actors and sectors involved in amending legislation, which we do in all cases. In the media, then, the picture has been created that someone would have held the pen when changing the rules, with a view to obtaining a monopoly position. That's bullshit. I repeat, I regret this tendentious report. I only ask one thing: look at the end result. Look at the new procedure. It's more transparent. She's opening up the market. She's more fraud-proof. She allows to intervene in case of fraud or convictions etc. If it were true that someone would have held the pen, would this new system have been the result? I don't think so. There's something else I need to get off my chest. At some point, a journalist of the programme on the subject shared a screen image via social media, namely an image of an email between one of my employees and Mr Stockbroekx. That image gives the impression that my cabinet would have an exclusive communication with one of the authorised companies. I think you should know that this image was manipulated. The other authorised companies, in this case Red All Belgium and Forax, as well as Comeos, were also with the recipients of that mail. The journalist in question has removed those addressees and also acknowledges that he has done so. My spokesperson asked him to make that right. I can only say that this has not happened and I would like to express my deep regret at this way of reporting. I would also like to stress once again that each of the authorised companies concerned was subject to a thorough review by the BBI in the context of the amending regulation at the initiative of my cabinet. The conclusion of that report from the BBI is that each of the authorised companies concerned is generally subject to tax legislation. It is also reported that each of the companies concerned still needs to make a number of changes in order to comply with the new rules. However, this is not a question of major, but rather of procedural, technical adjustments in any of the cases. In short, the audit of the BBI, together with the new regulation, has ensured that there is much more transparency, that the infringements can be dealt with and that there is a level playing field. For this legislature, this authorisation was given without prior examination. I should like to comment on the contacts with Mr Stockbroekx himself. Yes, I did receive him briefly, in the presence of my advisors, on 14 January 2015. I referred him to my advisers and to the departments of the administration concerned for his questions and concerns about possible fraud in the sector, the change in the legislation at that time and the relationship between authorised companies. After that, there were four more contacts with my policy cell's advisors. In two cases these were meetings at which the administration was present: once to explain its views on fraud in the application of the exemption and once to obtain explanations on the application of the existing regime. There was also an IT technical consultation with two DCS programmers to explain the implications of the new scheme. One of the other companies, in particular Forax, had also requested such technical maintenance, which therefore took place. DCS was also present at the presentation of the new scheme, including Comeos. As I said earlier, it goes without saying that there was and is an exchange of information with the actors involved, but that was done with each of the actors involved. Finally, I would like to return to the audit by the BBI. It includes a reference, and no more than a reference, to a criminal conviction of Mr Stockbroekx dating from 2016. An appeal against this would have been brought. I do not know any more about this at the moment. Although this is not relevant for the assessment of the authorised company because DCS currently has another manager, I would like to point out that that conviction dates from after my meeting with him. Further enquiries show that certain convictions were also committed in 1998 and 2006, but they were not even visible to the FBI in its audit and were therefore not included in this report. I would also like to point out that it is impossible to screen every visitor on the cabinet exhaustively. The facts are what they are. I have clearly distanced myself from the person concerned and I repeat that again today. My cabinet and myself have been deontologically correct at all times. I would like to mention that there have been many years of legal proceedings between authorised companies. I don't have any business with that. The court will do its job. I believe that this context has not been sufficiently taken into account in certain reports. I have heard questions about a lobby register, questions about copies of e-mails and so on. I believe that these subjects were discussed exhaustively in the Working Party on Political Renewal, from which certain conclusions were drawn. I refer in this respect to the views and answers given by the Prime Minister on behalf of the whole government. I think I have informed you more than enough with my answer. In this way, my cabinet has informed the press well over the last few days. I regret the way in which certain aspects of this were dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u88	Minister, I must confess that you have not removed the great doubts I have expressed. Jan Jambon knew very well who Mr Stockbroekx was. He referred that man to you. I can't imagine you or your cabinet didn't know who Mr Stockbroekx was. I do not think it is possible to prepare regulations which give a very important role to authorised companies with which the tax authorities should have a relationship of trust. I can't believe neither you nor your cabinet knew who Mr Stockbroekx was. You said that the first contact dates from January 2015. I've heard you say in the media: "Once we knew who this gentleman was, we've put him down. I can't imagine that you didn't know this in January 2015, that this didn't happen until after the mail in October. You said there were still four contacts after your contact. So people kept working with that guy. What you're saying doesn't add up to the first reaction you've given. I would like to receive a written summary from you of all the contacts that have been between yourself, Mr Stockbroekx, your cabinet and the administration, Minister. You say that you have not only been in contact with Mr Stockbroekx. I'm inclined to believe that. I believe that you have also been in contact with Comeos and the other companies, but that does not mean that the N-VA, with their knowledge of that person, should have all the alarm bells ring. This man should not have been given a position of trust. I want to make a call. In the new regulation there is a possibility to withdraw the authorisation. Mr Calvo has already referred to the fact that he alone grants an immediate exemption from VAT. There are also rumours that he organises evenings together with certain companies on which others, non-diplomats, on the conto of diplomats, can buy goods with a VAT exemption. I think you should investigate that, Minister. If what Mr Calvo has said is correct, if what I am saying is correct, then there is only one slope, in particular that the authorization of that company is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u89	Do you have a response to the question I have asked you, which is now being re-established by Mr Van der Maelen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u90	The Minister has given an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u91	Yeah, but it does happen that a question can be recalled if...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u92	These are the Rules of Procedure, Mr Calvo. You shouldn't try to add... you've asked questions and the Minister has answered. Now you're gonna get a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u93	The concept of questions is that they are usually answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u94	You have to tell me what you think of the answer...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u95	...immediate exemption... I ask a series of political questions, I ask a technical question...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u96	If you think the answer is wrong, you can take those questions again. But at the current state of the answer, what is your reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u97	The fact that the Minister does not answer that one technical question does not, of course, make the dossier more attractive and attractive. I would like to invite you to check how this new regulation is being applied and implemented by the company in question today. I think this is the least we can ask. I'm sorry you didn't...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u98	In my reply, I made a clear reference to the fact that the BBI in its audit, if I can please you with that, I would like to reassure you and Mr Van der Maelen that the BBI audit stated that there was indeed a number of adjustments to be made on that website. That is what will happen, and that will be followed up. So don't say I didn't answer that. I did answer that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u99	Then I would like to thank you for the clarification. I do find it very annoying that even someone who actively cooperates with new regulations does not seem to find it worthwhile to modify their site. I hope that the BBI has not just taken note of the fact that there are these problems, but that this is also actively followed up. I'd like to receive the audit. Secondly, I find it very difficult with your answer that you did not find out who it was until after 2015, after those meetings. You do not discuss whether or not that person was introduced by Jan Jambon, but in 2010 it was already known who it was about. You, as leader of the N-VA in your own province, as a fervent reader of Trends, should have known that or you knew that. I'm not going to say that you knew by definition, but despite everyone who actually knew, you've met that man and there have been several contacts within the framework of regulation. I'm having a hard time with that. What I particularly regret, Mr Van Overtveldt, is that as an opposition we are actually proposing a solution to tackle at least part of similar issues in the future and that you simply ignore that solution. I have the advantage of being very active in the Working Party on Political Renewal. The only reason why there is nothing about a transparency register in the conclusions of the Political Renewal Working Group is that the government simply did not answer that question. Even within Parliament, even within the majority, there was actually a very strong support for forcing the government to take steps. Michel, however, has always taken a very hypocritical attitude. He said he wanted to, but he didn't reply to the letter and didn't come up with any proposals to address a number of specific issues. In the Finance Office, after Practicali, after what I still find very uncomfortable, consultative offices share, distribute and even organise training on it before we have it in Parliament and after this issue, do not say that you will voluntarily introduce it into your cabinet. You're in charge of your own cabinet. You can enter it today. You would take a very clear step forward. You are not doing that, and I am very sorry to hear that. Honestly, I don't really understand that. That also makes the rest of your answer much less credible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic736x.u100	I might be able to give an additional explanation. Firstly, Mr van der Maelen, as regards the practices you are talking about, follow-up and monitoring is being carried out. If these practices are correct, I do not know, I cannot at this time reply in the affirmative or in the negative, then of course there will be intervention. The involvement of the BBI in this file is very clear. Secondly, Mr Jambon himself said, through his spokesman, that he did indeed do that introduction. So I can only confirm that, but I thought that, since you read Trends carefully, you read other media carefully and were already aware of it. Thirdly, I did not have any personal contact with the man in question after that. The fact that the discussions have been conducted as they have been, I have explained sufficiently in the context of the firm on which they are concerned.
