ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u1	Mr President, Minister, according to an article on the RTL website, published on 18 September, 80 people are checked for lack of car insurance every day in Belgium. Most offenders are in the 25-34 age group, followed by those under 25. In 2016, 29,233 infringements were found with road users without insurance for their vehicle. They were just under 30,000 in 2015 and just over 31,000 in 2014. The figures are therefore stable. Penal sanctions range from fines to the withdrawal of permits and, in some cases, imprisonment. Drivers who are punished two or three times for serious offences shall be removed from their licence for at least three months and shall represent their driving tests. The Minister of Mobility, François Bellot, and you yourself intend to tighten the crackdown. Therefore, Minister, let me ask you the following questions. Could you help me with the status and timing of the implementation of the bill? What urgent measures are you considering announcing in this regard? In the case of a vehicle that has been seized, how long do the owners have to put themselves in order for insurance? What documents must they submit in order to obtain the return of their vehicle? What about those whose owners don't appear? Are they sold? How long?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u2	Kir, the road safety improvement bill was prepared in consultation with Minister Bellot. The Regions have recently issued their opinions. The draft is before the Council of State for its opinion. Article 38(6) of the Act of 16 March 1968 currently provides for a series of offences for which cross-recidivism can be found. With my colleague, I propose in the bill that the lack of assurance be added to this list. In other words, the judge will have to rule on the revocation of the right to drive a motor vehicle for a period of at least three months instead of the current eight days and impose the passing of 4 examinations (theoretical, practical, medical and psychological) in order to recover the right to drive if the offender of an offence, within a period of three years, is again convicted of one of these offences. For example, driving without insurance and driving in a state of drunkenness. In the event of a second recidivism, the minimum will be 6 months and 9 months for the third recidivism. The procedure in the case of a vehicle which has been seized is described in article 21 of the Act of 29 November 1989 on compulsory insurance of liability for motor vehicles. Where it is demonstrated that, at the time of the seizure, the civil liability to which the vehicle could give rise was covered by insurance, the seizure shall be lifted by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the investigating court and the court of judgment seised. In other cases, the seizure may be lifted only after the reason for the conclusion of an insurance contract in accordance with the provisions of this Law and the payment of the costs of seizure and retention of the vehicle.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u3	According to the newspaper Le Figaro of 28 September, a confidential United Nations document considers that the circumstances of the death of Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld are not accidental: his plane was shot down. Tanzanian judge Mohamed Chande Othman, who has been in charge of the investigation since February 2017, submitted on 9 August last to Antonio Guterres, a report indicating new elements, notably provided by the US, English and Belgian governments. Mr Othman concluded: "on the basis of all the information we have in our hands, it is plausible that the air crash was caused by an external attack or threat, either directly and physically on the DC-6 leading to its fall, or by a momentary distraction of the pilots". In response to one of my written questions, on 23 February, you replied that the State Security had not been consulted by UN investigators during their visit to Belgium. However, it is known that the State Security now stores part of the so-called African archives, formerly stored in the SPF Foreign Affairs. I am thinking in particular of documents from colonial security. Hence, minister, my questions. One of the main advances of this ongoing UN investigation is the verification of the statements of a French diplomat, Claude de Kémoularia, to whom a former Belgian fighter pilot named or nicknamed "Beukels" reportedly confided in 1967, evoking a blunder after an attempt to hijack the aircraft in question. Judge Othman had access to the agenda, letters and other personal documents of this French diplomat. He cannot, however, determine the exact identity of our possible compatriot. Does the State Security have classified or non-classified documents relating to the identity or activities of a so-called "Beukels"? I particularly stress the colonial security archives, which have recently been transferred to the State Security Service. My second question concerns the recommendations. Judge Othman asks the UN itself, but above all the countries involved in this case – including Belgium – to make every effort to declassify and make available to investigators all the data that could shed light on this case. On the other hand, it calls on the countries concerned to state explicitly and unequivocally that they do not possess this type of historical material. Do you therefore envisage a declassification of documents that date back to the most recent, from 1962, that is, 55 years? If not, can you state explicitly that the State Security does not have it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u4	Mr Hellings, as regards the so-called Beukels - sometimes spelled "Breukel" according to press articles - no information was found about him, regardless of the spelling used. The Sûreté de l'État has undertaken the necessary research in the "Sûreté congolaise" fund. However, the latter stopped at the abolition of the service, following the independence of the Congo in June 1960. It is logical that it should not contain information on the circumstances of the death of Secretary-General Hammarskjöld in September 1961. On the basis of sources such as the list of names transmitted by the Department of Foreign Affairs, State Security declassified certain files which were subsequently forwarded to the Department with a view to sending a response to Mr. Othman of the United Nations. These files contained documents relating to the period 1940-1970. Moreover, since the State Security Service is an active defensive service on Belgian soil, the information relating to the period in question was mainly provided by the Belgian diplomatic channels or came from the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u5	Mr Minister, you have not answered my question as to whether Belgium has classified archives. If she doesn't own it, say it openly! On 25 October, in a week's time, the report will be completed. The UN Secretary-General will publish it on the organisation's website and therefore make it public in the eyes of the general public. This recommendation will come to light and will be addressed not only to the United States, the United Kingdom, South Africa, but also to Belgium. In my opinion, our country would grow - fifty-five years after the facts! - helping the United Nations to discover how, in increasingly disturbing circumstances, the only Secretary-General of the United Nations to have been murdered to date has disappeared.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u6	Mr. President, Minister, according to an article on the DH website, parents continue to leave their children alone in the family vehicle despite criminal sanctions. Indeed, abandoning or abandoning your child in a car is a criminal offence which, unfortunately, is not so rare in Belgium. A dangerous behaviour which, even if the child does not suffer the consequences, is, in any case, punishable by an administrative penalty of 60 euros for three years within the Bruno police zone (Schaerbeek, Evere, Saint-Josse). The authorities had decided to act on this territory, after the death, in 2012, of a child forgotten in the heat by his father. The infant had not survived. It should be pointed out that in 2014, this father was acquitted by the Brussels courts, the latter considering that this omission, as some studies show, does not depend on the affective or emotional, and that therefore the human cannot control him. Is this issue being addressed by the Minister's strategic unit? Are there figures available for this phenomenon? Does the minister see the value of attracting more public opinion, for example through an information and awareness campaign, in order to reduce the number of accidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u7	Mr President, Mr Kir, abandoning or abandoning his child in a car may indeed be the subject of a criminal offence. Article 423 of the Criminal Code penalizes those who abandon or abandon in any place a minor or a person whose situation of vulnerability due to age, pregnancy, illness, infirmity or apparent physical or mental disability is known to the perpetrator. It is always up to the trial judge to assess whether all the elements of an offence are present. Material and moral elements are involved here. The punishable intention. As you know, I cannot get figures from the Public Prosecutor's Office in such a short time to respond to your request for statistical data. Furthermore, the statistical tool used by the Public Prosecutor's Office does not allow the offence to be isolated from abandoning or abandoning a child in a car within the broader phenomenon of neglect or abandonment of vulnerable and needy children and persons. At present, no change is envisaged at the purely criminal level. Beyond the issue of criminalization, I share your concern about the importance of information and awareness-raising campaigns. However, this is not within my jurisdiction as Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u8	I thank the Minister for his full response. As the statistical element is not included in the questions, I understand that it is difficult to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u9	Mrs. De Wit was unable to attend.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u10	Mr President, Minister, more than 120 detainees in Saint-Gilles prison have recently sent you, according to the press, a petition asking you to stop broadcasting in the cells of Arab television channels that they consider fundamentalist. According to them, these channels broadcast programmes that apologies for martyrs, hatred and anti-Semitism. It appears that many requests have already been addressed to management but have not been addressed. Mr Minister, at a time when the problem of radicalisation in prison has never been so serious - I have been able to see it personally - this type of information is most intriguing. Did you receive this petition? Do you confirm the facts of this case? Is this problem specific to Saint-Gilles prison or is it widespread in all prisons? What do you intend to do to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u11	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, since the question was also asked by Mrs De Wit, I answer in both languages. Of course, access to television channels in prison is via an operator. The prisons only work with authorized operators. It is obvious that the package of offered channels may vary from operator to operator. With regard to Saint-Gilles Prison, no formal petition had been submitted to the Directorate General of Prisons at the time you filed your question. She'd have been here ever since. The television offered in this establishment is offered via satellite, but the installation is currently obsolete, regularly causing technical problems such as the intermittent nature of certain channels. Most of the inmates' complaints deal with this aspect. Management is aware of this and is working to solve the problem. As far as the supply of the proposed channels is concerned, it is established taking into account, as far as possible, the wishes of the detainees, but also has to deal with technological constraints. Of course, the channels remain official channels as they depend on official operators. Recently, two of them (Tawhid and Saudi TV), having appeared as a result of the reboot of the installation, were deleted due to complaints from detainees about the religious content of the messages broadcast. The prison responded to the request of a number of detainees to remove these channels, because it was feared that the nature of the broadcast programmes on these channels could pose a risk to order and security in the establishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u12	(...) Events following the submission of my question on 29 September show that there were some concerns. Thank you. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u13	Mr President, Minister, justice of the peace plays an essential role in living together and social cohesion. This is the judicial body closest to the citizen. It is precisely for this reason that the municipalities of Auderghem and Watermael-Boitsfort brought an action for annulment of your decision of 27 March 2017 to abolish the justice of peace in Auderghem. On 3 August 2017, the Conseil d'État gave the two municipalities a right, stating that it is up to the legislator alone and not to the Minister of Justice to fix the judicial cantons and the seats of the justices of the peace, since this implies a revision of the law of 10 October 1967 containing the Judicial Code. The Council of State adds that "when the Minister of Justice decides to close the justice of peace located in a commune, he exercises a jurisdiction that is clearly not his own." When I introduced my question, your bill was not yet known to us. He was finally introduced yesterday and is not of such a nature to reassure me. I would like to ask you whether its drafting would be carried out in consultation with the communes concerned and whether it would take into account the workload of the seats of the justices of the peace and their geographical proximity to the people concerned. However, I observe that the canton of Auderghem is well removed. I also take note of the criteria on which you based your reorganization: the workload, the number of inhabitants, the presence of institutions for the mentally ill in a canton, the state of the existing buildings, the size of the present framework, the extent of the canton, the economic activity in the region and the obligations arising from the Act of 15 June 1935 concerning the use of languages in judicial matters. However, the opinion of the Council of State criticises the consequences of the rule that alternate justices of the peace who were appointed in an deleted canton would become alternate justices of the peace in the canton or cantons to which their former canton is attached, on the reasoned proposal of the president of the justices of the peace and the judges in the police court. This arrangement may create problems when an deleted canton where special linguistic conditions prevail for certain judges because of the existence of a municipality with a special linguistic regime is attached to a canton where such conditions do not apply. Minister, why have the municipalities of the deleted cantons not been involved in your reflection?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u14	Mr Minister, my question was oddly merged with other questions, although it is not really about reducing the number of peace courts, but about one particular peace court, with other problems, in particular the peace court of Saint Joost-ten-Node. On 9 August 2017, on behalf of the Federal Public Service Employment, Labour and Social Consultation, the building of the peace court in Saint-Joost-ten-Node was sealed for security reasons. The inspector of the FOD WASO ruled that it was too dangerous to let the building enter by the staff and visitors. Therefore, the peace court was temporarily housed in another building of the municipality of Sint-Joost-ten-Node. However, no consent was given by the FOD WASO. The seals were broken on their own accord and removed by the court of peace itself. Staff must go to the building twice a day for the collection of files and printed documents and for the copying of files. They enter the building without any protection. I have the following questions, Minister. First of all, are you aware that the Justice of the Peace broke through the seals single-handedly? Secondly, will sanctions be applied to the justice of the peace, which, let us be honest, should set an example to society? Thirdly, the peace process in Saint-Joost-ten-Node was sealed for security reasons for staff and visitors, but now the staff must enter the building without any protection. Will you act against this and stand up for the safety of the staff? Fourthly, what measures will you take? Fifth, when can the original peace process in Saint-Joost-ten-Node be reopened?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u15	Mr President, Minister, you launched your Justice Plan in spring 2015. A chapter was also devoted to the peace appetizers. All this gave rise to a thorough rationalization exercise and a three-stage plan for the peace courts. In the meantime, you have decided that 34 peace dishes will close the doors, including the peace dishes of Harelbeke, Diksmuide and Wervik, while Wervik has just been building a brand new building, which has only been in use for two years. There is a lease that stipulates that the Buildings Direction will have to rent the property until 2030. There was never any contact with the mayors of the cities and municipalities concerned, nor is there any knowledge of the closure procedure. I would therefore like an answer to the following questions. Firstly, 34 peace courts will close. On the basis of what criteria has it been decided which peace courts should close the doors? In response to a parliamentary question by Mr Goffin dated 8 June 2015, it appeared that the choice of the new seat would be based on the following criteria: the geographical choice and status of the building and the preference of the peace judges and presidents concerned, taking into account the most practical location and workload. Secondly, have you taken a decision on this peace court on the basis of the same criteria? If so, how do you explain that the new building in Wervik will no longer be used? Do some criteria weigh more heavily than others? Thirdly, to what extent do you take account of any proposals made by the Presidents of the Peace Courts? Fourthly, what will happen to the new building in Wervik that will have to be rented for another 15 years? Fifthly, what will be the future of the peace judges who were appointed for a peace court in a specific canton, which is now closed? Sixthly, has this decision already been approved by the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on several occasions the plan for justices of peace has been set out here. Everyone knows, therefore, that it is composed of three phases. The proposal to close the headquarters of Auderghem is part of the third phase. When the draft law was approved by the Council of Ministers for submission to Parliament, we opted for an appropriate opening and communication to all the mayors concerned, whether it was a commune with a closed justice of the peace, a commune where justice of the peace would remain, or a commune which would belong to another canton in the future. In short, we sought to be open and honest. It was this letter that was challenged at the level of the Council of State. The reform plan also provides for the closure of the Kraainem siege. This is indeed a seat of the double canton with Rhode-Saint-Genèse. All the double and triple cantons are now centralized in one place within the canton. The workload was so low in Kraainem that another decision was not possible. For Wervik too, we have tried to consider all the criteria that have been explained here. I understand that this is not an easy matter for many mayors. We need to organise this more efficiently within the Court of Justice and there will always be dissatisfaction from one angle or another. I understand this, but I am trying to ensure that services are still guaranteed. In the meantime, the parliamentary process has started for the overall draft law. I gave the introduction to the Justice Committee yesterday. I have already explained that this was discussed with the relevant partners, and that seems to me to be the peace judges and/or their presidents in the first place. Of course, to a very important extent, the workload was taken into account. The proximity is also taken into account, although in Brussels, given the density and the wide range of public transport services, this is something else. Finally, as regards the peace process of Saint Joost-ten-Node. This case is currently separate from the reform plan, just because, because of the very poor infrastructure and the closure by the FOD WASO, an urgent solution had to be found here. I would remind you that the responsibility for this accommodation rests with my colleague for the Directorate of Buildings. They found a new place through rent. After all, renovation of the old peace court proved impossible, or at least not to lead to a good result in the short term. The file for the hiring is in a final phase. The budget administration agreement has just been obtained. It will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval in the coming weeks. In the meantime, a temporary accommodation was offered by the municipality, as mayor Emir Kir has just come to confirm me. I do not understand your comment that the FOD WASO would not have given permission to do so as this is not necessary here. I have recently and indirectly been informed of the fact that the Justice of the Peace broke the seals. I do not make any further comments on this, as this is the responsibility of the court of peace and disciplinary action concerned, in particular the President of the Court of First Instance. From the FOD a customized support with other printers was offered. Meanwhile, I have instructed my administration to break the network line so that one can no longer print in the old sealed building.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u17	Minister, I hear your position very well. I would remind you, however, that justice of peace is justice of proximity. This is where the citizen is most involved in everyday life and conflict. I take the example of my municipality, Kraainem, and Wezembeek. You say there are few cases: I ask that this be checked. Today, people living in our communes must go to Rhode-Saint-Genèse and you are aware of all the problems of access and mobility that exist between these two entities. You're causing a big human problem by removing Kraainem's seat. I had questioned you a few months ago because we had problems with buildings, but we were ready to find a solution to accommodate our justice of peace in a completely correct way. I know the case of people who come to me, who today have to reserve more than a morning or afternoon for an appointment, and who have to take leave, because they do not know exactly when they will be received. In terms of human relations, it is a disaster for our two municipalities of Kraainem and Wezembeek. I think Auderghem will experience further twists as a result of these decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u18	Mrs Lambrecht, you have the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u19	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u20	Okay. Mr Top, you have the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There has been a debate on the proximity of peace courts before, and I have already asked a question about this myself. Following the draft law, there will soon be another debate on this in the Committee on Justice, so I am not going to go into it in more detail. However, the situation remains peculiar, if I compare Wervik and Menen. In Wervik a brand new building was built, which is only used for two and a half years and for which the Buildings Regie will have to pay a considerable amount of rent for more than fifteen years. Apparently, this does not add up enough to the investments that will soon have to be made in Menen, where there is no decent housing and where there will therefore have to be built, rented or purchased. Apparently, these considerations are not sufficient to accommodate, at least temporarily and for the duration of the rent in Wervik, Menen's peace court. I think that could be part of the rationalisation exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u22	Mr President, Minister, the press recently revealed your initiative, in collaboration with the Prime Minister, to establish an English-speaking international jurisdiction in the Brussels Region: the Brussels International Business Court. If I believe the information published on this subject in the media, the files would be pleaded in English and the aim would be to be able to deal with major international commercial conflicts between companies through a single-level arbitration procedure. As the seat of many international institutions and companies, our capital is indeed a place of choice for dealing with this type of litigation, especially since our country also enjoys an excellent reputation for arbitration. At the present time, the bill would be well under way and a draft bill would have already been discussed at the government table, according to the information I was able to read in the media. Allow me, Minister, to welcome this initiative taken jointly with the Prime Minister. This is a good and ambitious project for our capital, because the creation of such a jurisdiction is a first for a non-English-speaking country. In addition, positive impacts can be expected in terms of economic activity and employment. I would also like to ask you the following questions. Could you outline the content and objectives of this project? What will be the way this new jurisdiction is organised and operated? What budget will be allocated for the establishment of this court and according to what timetable? Finally, what are the avenues currently envisaged for choosing the location of the building that could accommodate this jurisdiction here in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u23	Mr Calomne, I can indeed confirm that a draft bill to this effect will very shortly be presented to the Council of Ministers. The national and international economic and political developments of recent months have in fact underlined the important need for a high-level specialized state court in Belgium, capable of adjudicating cross-border commercial disputes, by its very nature in the language of international trade, namely English. Many of these disputes are thus currently outside the jurisdiction of the Belgian courts. It is therefore envisaged to organise a single English-speaking commercial court called the "Brussels International Business Court", in abbreviated BIBC, in which consular judges will sit called "Judges in the Brussels International Business Court". Although the BIBC is a State court, the fact remains that the specialization and linguistic knowledge required in this case must also be provided by recourse within the judiciary to non-professional judges, which makes it possible to react effectively quantitatively to a request that is not necessarily constant. The Act of 15 June 1935 concerning the use of languages in judicial matters will of course be adapted to allow an English-speaking procedure before the BIBC. There will be no proper framework, only a contingent of consular judges who will sit with a professional magistrate on loan from a court or tribunal. A collegial jurisprudence developed by eminent experts in the field of international trade law will also allow the BIBC to rule first and last instance, which will contribute to the efficiency of the procedure and the authority of its judgements. The alignment of the BIBC with the international business community in order to settle international commercial disputes also requires its dissociation from the Belgian common procedural law, which does not necessarily contain the most suitable instruments for the settlement of these various disputes, a fortiori if they have no connection with Belgium in legal or content terms. With regard to the sensu stricto procedure, the BIBC will apply, mutatis mutandis and at least in principle, because it is indeed a State tribunal and not an arbitral tribunal, the Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law. And in the event that a hiatus still exists, the BIBC itself will determine how to continue to proceed. It is also important that the BIBC be self-sufficient, which is justified not only because of the limitation of public resources but also because of the particular costs that go hand in hand with the use of eminent internationally respected experts, and therefore not only Belgians. The parties will pay substantial registration fees; a fee that will cover these costs, including those related to the remuneration and compensation of lay judges. These fees will be payable in advance by the parties and will be liquidated as all legal costs. As soon as the principles of the organisation, competence and procedure of the BIBC are established, it will be ensured, in collaboration with other stakeholders and in particular the regional authorities, to propose an appropriate infrastructure that fully meets the needs of an efficient administration of justice, which is also adapted to the modern and digital era. This is not related to the question of the financing of the Brussels courthouse. The latter is not responsible for the budget of Justice, but for the budget of the Régie des Bâtiments. This project will have no impact on this funding. By its nature, the BIBC will therefore have its own funding and status. The BIBC is expected to be operational by 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u24	I thank you, Minister, for all this information that was complementary to what we had discovered in the media. I wanted to stress, through this question, the positive initiative for our country, which will have a much wider impact than on the legal question alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u25	Mrs Lambrecht, we are waiting a few minutes for Mrs Özen, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and Mrs Van Cauter to come to the questions put together. That is why I propose that you ask your question 21143 first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u26	Mr President, for me the problem is that I have to go to another committee meeting shortly. I understand that you will first give me the floor for the next question on the agenda, but with your permission, I would like to ask the combined question afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u27	All right, we'll deal with that as next item.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u28	Thank you very much. Minister, the law amending the rules for the transfer of names to the child or the adopted person entered into force on 1 June 2014 has now been in force for more than three years. Our country was looking at a European legal conviction and Belgium had to amend the legislation. To measure the impact of that law, I requested statistical data from the National Register in a written question to Minister Jambon. From the answer I can conclude that for the time being, as predicted, the new naming legislation has not had much effect. 90% of the parents keep it in the father's name, as it used to be. In 2016, 866 of the 105 556 born children received a double name mother-father, which represents less than a percent. Minister, what conclusions do you draw from these figures? Are these figures consistent with the figures in our neighbouring countries? If not, how do you explain that difference with our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u29	Mrs Lambrecht, on the basis of the figures, I can only conclude that an overwhelming majority of parents still seem to choose the father's name. This does not prevent the new law from allowing 10% of parents to choose the name of the mother or the double name. I would also like to make some nuance of the figures relating to the use of the double family name. It cannot be derived from those figures whether the name of the father in those cases is always the result of an effective choice, or whether the parents did not agree or did not make a choice. The standard rule in those cases was that the father's name is given. In addition, the figures date from before 1 January 2017, the date of entry into force of the Law of 25 March 2016 amending Articles 335 and 335b of the Civil Code concerning the method of handing over the name to the child. That law amended those articles as a result of the annulment judgment of the Constitutional Court. Those articles stipulated that in the event of disagreement or in the absence of a choice of parents concerning the surname of the child at the time of the birth declaration, the child would bear the name of the father. The latter was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. Since 1 January 2017, therefore, in case of disagreement between parents about the child's family name, the child is given the double family name and no longer the father's name. This new standard scheme may affect the number of cases in which a dual family name is awarded. My services do not have general recent figures from neighbouring countries on the allocation of a double family name. In 2015, the French Institut national de la statistique et les études économiques announced that of all children born in France in 2014, 83 % bears the father's name, 7 percent the mother's name and 10 percent the double name. In the case of married couples, 95% bear the father's name. The study by the Dutch magazine WIJ Jonge Parents from 2016 would show that in the Netherlands 87 % still chooses the surname of the father. I must mention that in the Netherlands it is not possible to give the double name. So our figures seem to be in line with those of our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Terwingen has been postponed to 21135.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u32	Minister, the Registry of the French-speaking Court of Justice in the Brussels Palace of Justice is closed because the ground has collapsed. No document of conviction may be brought to the Registry through the French-speaking court. The Registry of the Court of First Instance is located in the basements of the Brussels courthouse. According to the French-speaking court president Luc Hennart, this decision was taken for security reasons. It is a crumbling space in which weapons and ammunition are stored that were seized during investigations. Luc Hennart cites three reasons for which I have already asked a number of questions, in particular the preservation of a number of dangerous products which are no longer legally allowed to be kept, the persistent fungal problem and the soil that has been lost in certain places. As far as the latter is concerned, I would like to make a bridge to the alleged alarming disappearance of the telephone tapes I mentioned earlier. In the Dutch-speaking Registry, this means that the documents of conviction in the Dutch-speaking Registry temporarily disappear and then appear after the judgment and after the case was postponed five times. In the French-speaking Registry, they risk sinking into the ground again. This situation is untenable, hence my questions. Is it true that the ground has collapsed and that the Registry is closed? If so, when will the Registry reopen? How will it be possible to obtain the necessary documents of conviction to conduct proceedings while the Registry is closed, assuming that they will be recovered in good time? When will the problems of ammunition, mold and soil degradation be resolved in the Justice Palace?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u33	You have a second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u34	Mr President, Minister, I will group my questions together. On 9 October 2017, the French-speaking court still decided to close the doors of the Registry because it was unable to guarantee the security of the Brussels Justice Palace. A few days later, the Dutch court takes the same decision. The premises in the Brussels Palace of Justice where the police give evidence of criminal law in detention are so bad that the court sees no other way than to keep the doors closed. Dangerous substances can no longer be stored in regulations. Floors and ceilings are dropping. There's water damage. The humidity is unhealthy high and then there is the fungus growth. As a result, certain places are only accessible with protective clothing, mask and gloves. That is not a pleasant place to work for the staff. That's why I have a few questions. What measures do you take to ensure the safety of the staff in the Palace of Justice? How will you solve this problem? When will the staff of the Brussels Justice Palace be better served? Is there a timing here?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u35	Mrs Lambrecht, at the beginning of this year there was an effective groundbreaking in the Brussels Justice Palace. The problem is situated in a relatively small local area where archives of civil status are currently stored. The Government of the Buildings has carried out a stability study to map the aforementioned subsidence. In the light of the results, it has issued a ban on entering the local area. However, due to the ground subsidence, the relative humidity in the respective and some surrounding areas has increased, causing fungi to begin to form. In addition to the deterioration of some of the archives of the civil status, there are also visible traces of molding on the packaging of certain documents as well as on a limited number of articles of conviction. This last contamination is located in a remote location. At the request of the Government of the Buildings, the Scientific Institute for Public Health carried out measurements last June. The report drawn up by this body shows that, as a precautionary measure, the premises concerned may only be entered with personal protective equipment such as a mouth mask. On the basis of that report, the occupational physician has recently banned access to a limited space in which highly moldy archives are stored, unless for the repair of these premises and the preservation of the archives. It should also be stressed that the impacted area of beliefs concerns only a fraction of all the premises in the Palace of Justice in which there are documents of conviction. According to the employer, the area in question may still be entered to a limited extent, also subject to the use of personal protective equipment. In addition, it was also proposed to the President of the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels to physically isolate the affected beliefs in order to avoid, on the one hand, the further development of fungi in the relevant local area and, on the other hand, to help better understand the origin and development of contamination in this particular local area. However, the President in question has decided to refuse any further adoption of documents of conviction by his jurisdiction. The chairman of the Dutch-speaking court followed him afterwards. I can assure you that the Régie des Bâtiments is working very hard with my services to find an alternative to the temporary storage place for the new exhibits. We've been doing a lot of work on this in the last few days. A new site has been found. This concrete proposal has been forwarded to the courts concerned. We await their response so that the registry can be reopened, allowing, again, the filing of exhibits. In addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office has issued an instruction to the Public Prosecutor's Office concerned. This directive clarifies the impact of the court decision and, in particular, provides for certain concrete measures concerning the temporary storage of exhibits by the police. The Registry of the exhibits is of course responsible for making available the documents which are requested in the course of investigations or judicial cases. In other boroughs, my services have already found that these removals are relatively limited in relation to the total number of objects stored. So far, I am not aware of a case that has had to be postponed in practice because of this mould problem. More generally, I also do not have figures on judicial cases that have been delayed due to such external factors. In principle, the necessary documents can be extracted by the staff of the court. The necessary personal protective equipment is made available by my services to the court staff and provides adequate protection. Of course, these are exceptional circumstances and the Buildings Control, in cooperation with my services and the courts themselves, should work towards a rapid normalisation of this situation, provided that the necessary structural remedial measures are taken. Since it is not just my services that need to intervene in this whole process, it is not possible to give an exact timing. In addition, a number of procedures should also be followed which have a certain lead time. We are, of course, trying to keep these deadlines as short as possible. There is also the problem of the size of the number of documents of conviction in general and of ammunition in particular. This requires all actors to assume their responsibilities. For example, the influx should be reviewed critically by police and police services. In addition, it is up to the courts concerned to manage the number of documents of conviction, to dispose and destroy of documents in which a decision was taken by the prosecution pursuant to Article 28 novies of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The FPS Justice sensitizes all relevant services on a regular basis about this matter. Specifically for the disposal of ammunition, there is a protocol agreement between the FPS and the Department of Defence, which can be used by the judicial authorities for the management of the matter. In addition to the infrastructure for the storage of evidence, the proper management of the matter plays an extremely important role in keeping this problem manageable. As has just been pointed out, this is the responsibility of the judicial system itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u36	Minister, I have asked several questions about this and the answer is always about the same. Apparently, it wouldn't be that bad. However, I don't only hear the story here, I've also, like you probably, seen the footage of the reportage. It is unworthy of a country like Belgium that has a justice palace in the capital spaces that look like we saw in the reportage. I remember that a new site would have been found, a new place to preserve beliefs. I hope it's in the vicinity, but I don't think you'll want to tell us the location right now. You also mention that it is very difficult to do so, and I can understand it somewhat, because it is not just your services that have to take care of things there. Perhaps now is the time to think about the creation of a kind of cell so that not always the ping-pong game between the Government of the Buildings and the FPS Justice pops up again. I assume that there should be proper consultation on this matter. I do not think it is acceptable for the services to move this towards each other. I hear there's a lot of pieces to be destroyed that don't need to be destroyed. I am certainly beginning to wonder whether the courts have good guidelines for that, because I cannot imagine that they will keep up with all those documents if they are not needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u37	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u38	Isn't it? Then I think that is a very heavy responsibility that has been wrongly placed on you before. If pieces are kept that do not need to be kept any longer, then we have a very big problem. In your opinion, good management plays a role. That is true, but there too it seems that training is needed in order to achieve such good management. I wonder if there is sufficient information and training. In your view, a large part of the responsibility lies with the courts themselves, which hold too many pieces and which, moreover, do not always manage them well. I don't know if this is a correct interpretation of your answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u39	It is not the responsibility of the court, but of the public prosecutors to be involved in the documents. Since the Brussels incident, instructions have now been given to make this work much more systematic and automatic. This is urgently needed. It is also true that a new space is available. I am only waiting for the approval of the Brussels Presidents to use that space.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u40	Minister, I understand that the public prosecutors have been given directives. That's very good news. Will the application of these directives also be followed? Do you have any power in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u41	I will do my best, Mrs Lambrecht.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u42	Merged Questions No. No 21213, by Mrs Pas and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr Maingain's 21330 were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 21323 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u43	f
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u44	Mr President, Minister, anyone who pays a traffic ticket via the recently launched website www.verkeinsboten.be can easily see who was flashed at the same time. That's what the specialist magazine Traffic Specialist discovered. The CV number, the base to log in, is easy to manipulate. If certain figures are changed, or at least they are given access to another fine. Indeed, until 8 September, all the data were visible in this way. Then the FPS Justice deleted the names of the pages. All other data, such as number plates and date of infringement, were still visible at the time of submission of the request. According to the privacy committee, the FPS Justice went wrong. In particular, the Privacy Act provides that data processors must ensure data confidentiality and security. Moreover, the government has an exemplary role to play and it is a matter of judicial data, which is an extra sensitive issue. The FPS Justice has already announced that there are additional interventions coming. The website will provide a unique code by letter from mid-January 2018. In this way, it is excluded that someone can accidentally access the data of another offender. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, the data from this website are on a website of an American firm. According to the US case law, American firms must always give all data to the US security services if they so request. Have you and the FDA Justice taken this into account? Secondly, why was it not chosen for a Belgian firm, in order to support, in addition to protecting our legal data, the Belgian hosting industry in its efforts to create a safer and better environment in Belgium? Third, was this website tested before she went online? How come the problems mentioned were not noticed? Finally, why doesn't the website close until the problem is completely solved? The name of the offender may be invisible, but the license plate is still not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u45	Mr President, Mr Top, the website www.verkeins.be is hosted in Belgium and the data is stored in the system of the FPS Justice. Several functional and safety tests have been carried out, but the error in the generation sequence of PV numbers has not been revealed. A solution based on a unique identification code is currently being worked out. This solution will be available in the next phase of the project, beginning 2018. The current solution does not allow to identify the person as only the number plate of the amount to be paid is visible. Only the DIV, the Vehicle Registration Service, currently connects the license plate to persons in its authentic database. The ordinary citizen therefore does not have access to this data and does not know who has the license plate. In addition to the consultation, the online payment is the only function currently available, without the possibility of changing the data of the beneficiary. Pending the new identification solution and given the current level of data protection, it is desirable that the website remains accessible. The results so far, including the payment of traffic fines by foreigners, show that this is the right approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u46	Mr Minister, for the record, I think this is rather amateurish in terms of privacy and in terms of making a computer application operational. Allow me to say that. It should be noted that personal information is first visible on the website and that response is only made after someone notices it. Secondly, as regards the fact that the number plate is still visible, you say that no identification can be attached to it. Of course you can't, and luckily so. However, it is still not according to the Privacy Commission's guidelines. Actually, we're just gonna keep chasing things around. So it remains a precarious or bad situation to serve as an example for the security of computer applications by the public authorities. A few weeks ago we received an evaluation of the municipal websites. It was also noted that certain personal data are clearly freely available. There is therefore a need to adapt to this. I find it particularly regrettable that the federal government and the FPS Justice Department are also making a mistake here. I hope that this will be followed up more quickly in the future and that at least all safety tests will be carried out before anything like this is put online.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u47	Mr President, Minister, young lawyers have recently launched a new technology incubator, designed to make their colleagues aware of them and to anticipate the consequences of the digital wave in the practice of their profession. Among the innovative concepts, we can also mention the "legaltech", these legal start-ups promising a certain automation of the legal procedure, guaranteeing in particular a better dissemination of support and communication between legal professionals and, by extension, better communication of decisions to the litigants. Presented at the General Assembly of Avocats.be, this incubator wants to put lawyers at the heart of innovation and not put them in competition in the face of new technologies. Also, since the digital wave is both a source of opportunities, but also a source of legitimate fears, I would like to know how you judge the incorporation of automated procedures into the functioning of justice. Could such procedures be developed in a strict, medium- and long-term framework? Have you started thinking about this with your services? If so, what is the state of the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u48	Mr President, Mr Calomne, the pursuit of the automation and digitalisation of justice is indeed of great necessity. This can increase the accessibility, efficiency and transparency of judicial proceedings to the benefit of the litigants. Various projects have already been carried out; others are still under way. In my Justice Plan, my vision of tomorrow's law and in the various policy statements, I have already indicated how we are developing, step by step, digital procedures as part of our ICT strategy. To this end, we work intensively with the legal professions. In June 2016, the Justice FPS and I signed a Memorandum of Collaboration with the three legal professions. This agreement provides for the maximum connection of ICT platforms managed by the Justice FPS with the core ICT platforms of professional groups such as, for example, the Diplat platform of the Bar Association. Active proceedings are, for example, the filing of findings and the filing of bankruptcy claims. In the course of 2018, e.g. electronic filing of requests and requests for service will be further implemented. Digital debt settlement and administration records and procedures are also planned for 2018. As you can see, we are making progress, step by step, in making electronic procedures available. There are ongoing consultations with professional groups on the next steps in digitisation. It will now be a matter of making maximum use of the opportunities offered. Indeed, the lawyer is confronted with several aspects in the field of new technologies. Artificial intelligence, blockchain and other technological tsunamis will upset our legal landscape and transform the legal profession. Although artificial intelligence can create some fear in us, we must nevertheless accept technological changes and consider them an opportunity, not a threat to the profession. In the short term, lawyers will be free to develop digital applications themselves at any time in order to provide the best service to their clients. Technology is a certainty; fighting it makes no sense. Artificial intelligence in the legal landscape is coming soon, including at home. New technologies are tools that will be essential to enable lawyers to provide their services more quickly, and above all more efficiently and at the right price. The two experts I have appointed to develop a plan to modernize the legal profession will pay great attention to the application of technological developments in this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u49	Minister, thank you for your information. As you have pointed out, in the face of technological change, there is no reason to oppose it by perceive it as a threat, but rather to accompany it as an opportunity. Indeed, the world of justice does not escape this phenomenon. I am therefore pleased to hear you develop a positive approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u50	Question No 21262 by Mrs Muriel Gerkens is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u51	Mr President, Minister, on 22 February 2016, a royal decree on the settlement of cases within the first instance court of Liège changed the treatment of cases to be tried in the province of Liège. Huy and Verviers were deprived of much of the cases that made the daily life of their respective courthouses. For the most part, litigants, as well as lawyers, are asked to move more. This change was a consequence of the merger of judicial districts in December 2013. In addition to the cases falling within the exclusive jurisdiction of each division (Verviers, Liège or Huy), Liège obtained from the civil court the cases concerning public contracts, those relating to the discipline of notaries and judicial officers and those relating to intellectual property. In the correctional system, Liège has been granted economic and financial matters under social criminal law and relating to trafficking in human beings, in addition to those relating to extradition and European mandates. Verviers only obtained military criminal cases. As for Huy, she had to settle for the criminal cases of urban planning and the environment, a magistrate who was known to be specialized in these matters being already based there. In short, the eastern and western parts of the province have to settle for crumbs, while the provincial capital has gained most of the skills. In this new organization, litigants and lawyers from the districts of Huy and Verviers are asked to travel. On 18 April 2016, the Bars of Huy and Verviers attacked the Belgian State at the Council of State. In its judgment before the holidays, the Council of State rejected the application of the Bars of Huy and Verviers. If justice certainly saves money in this operation, the principle of proximity justice is in my view severely degraded. Minister, after more than a year, has this new organization been evaluated? Otherwise, is this expected in the coming months? Has the time taken to process cases in Liège increased, and to what extent? What legal means exist, if any, to review this organization in the long term and to entrust new cases to the courts of Huy and Verviers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u52	Mr Frédéric, the rules governing the allocation of cases of a court are applied on the proposal of the president of the court concerned with a view to improving the functioning of the court. This was also the case for the first instance court in Liège. The operation of a case allocation settlement shall be assessed daily by the President and, if necessary, adjustments within the courts shall be made. According to information from the President, the disposition of cases generally works very well. A certain delay in the handling of social criminal law cases has been made and a solution has been found by providing for the addition of a hearing in Liège on these cases. Such an intervention is precisely made possible by concentrating this type of business within a larger department. In civil cases, lawyers look forward to working with specialized judges. Disciplinary cases against judicial officers and notaries are exceptional procedures. The impact of centralization is very limited. At any time, each President may issue a proposal for the disposition of cases if the functioning of the court is improved. For the moment, however, there is no reference to a new project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u53	Mr Minister, I take note of your answer, which obviously will not satisfy the people who work there, the people who are litigants, the magistrates and the lawyers, since there is a finding of a significant imbalance between the volume of cases handled in Liège – the capital of the province, I can understand – and in the courthouses of other districts. You had the pleasure of visiting the courthouse of Verviers, a beautiful city. His courthouse is a little less so. My fear, in the long run, is that by emptying the egg shell, only the empty shell remains. I will remain very attentive to developments in the whole of the province of Liège in general and in Verviers in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u54	Minister, there has been a favourable wind on the press table of an internal e-mail to the Federal Police, dated June 2016, which gives clear instructions on the refusal to allow access to certain police databases in the context of the fight against terrorism, even to the liaison officers sent to ensure the proper flow of information. This situation, which echoes some of the findings of the committee of inquiry, you will agree, is unacceptable. In such cases, we must see all efforts converge towards a quick result – and there is no room for bell-tower quarrels. The Committee of Inquiry's recommendations in this respect are clear: the flow of information between the various security services needs to be improved in order to carry out an effective fight against terrorism and violent radicalism. To this end, the Commission recommended the establishment of platforms between police, security and judicial actors fighting terrorism, the appointment of liaison officers at strategic locations, access to databases for these liaison officers and the establishment of a mid-term data hub. All these obligations of collaboration are imposed. Minister, I would therefore like to hear from you on the following points. What is the current situation on the ground with regard to the flow of information, particularly in these sensitive cases? What are the reasons used by the federal police to deny access to the database to intelligence services? As soon as the entire report of the Committee of Inquiry has been approved, how do you intend to put an end to these secret practices between the counter-terrorism agencies? In particular, I am thinking of measures giving access to databases by liaison officers, without shortening the privacy measures specific to these databases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u55	Mr Frédéric, on 19 May 2016, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Federal Judicial Police in Brussels, the State Security, the General Intelligence and Defence Security Service and the OCAM. This led to the creation of a joint merger unit. Its objective is to gather all relevant information and intelligence in the context of terrorism and to enable the services to coordinate their efforts. The collaboration between the PJF Brussels and the VSSE is, within this intense and fruitful framework. Information is shared daily. This exchange of information shall take place in accordance with the legal framework. The possibility of direct access to police data banks is explicitly regulated in the Police Function Act. A direct examination by the VSSE of police data banks is provided for in the law only for the General National Data Bank (BNG). Implementation of this aspect is under way. The 2016 e-mail, which was included in several recent press articles, was intended to remind investigators of the obligation to respect the above-mentioned legal framework. Both the Sûreté de l'Etat and the Federal Police confirm that this has in no way resulted in a collaboration and an exchange of problematic information, on the contrary. Although the State Security Service does not have direct access to the relevant police data banks, the members of the PJF have in fact always communicated the relevant information and information to the State Security Service. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry proposes the creation of joint intelligence centres and joint decision centres based in particular on the model of the Memorandum of Understanding applied in Brussels. The rules are being developed. The committee of inquiry proposes, in the long run, the development of a security bank. This is a longer-term objective under discussion, in particular with the Minister of the Interior and Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u56	Minister, I will be satisfied with your answer by insisting – even if you are well informed in this regard – on the importance of communication. During the committee of inquiry in which I participated, we were able to realise that the difficulties we were facing were, of course, problems of human and technological means but mainly problems of communication between the police and intelligence services as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u57	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, the question had been addressed to the Minister of Health as it was an order she made, and to you as it affects your jurisdiction. She's coming home. You're replacing everyone; that's what we call versatility! Thank you for your availability. We were aware of the adoption of a new royal decree of 6 September 2017 regulating narcotic, psychotropic and soporific substances. On reading it, and in particular Articles 6, § 2, and 61, it would appear that there is a change in criminal policy with regard to the possession and production of cannabis for personal use, as set out in the circular of 1 February 2005 which I must not remind you of. In the interests of legal certainty, allow me, Minister, to ask you the following questions. What is the impact of this Royal Order on tolerance to cannabis users as set out in the 2005 Circular? What are the consequences of the Royal Decree on current criminal policy? What interpretation can now be given to this royal decree for consumers and for police prosecutors? Did any consultation with industry specialists take place before the Royal Decree was adopted?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u58	Mr President, Mr Frédéric, the Judgment of the Court of Arbitration No 158/2004 of 20 October 2004 annulled Article 11 of the Drugs Act, which was inserted into the Act of 3 May 2003. The Court of Arbitration held that the concept of public nuisances was not sufficiently defined only in order to be able to find a criminal offence. This cancellation also temporarily rendered the royal decrees of 31 December 1930 and 22 January 1998 inapplicable. The two royal decrees are replaced by the Royal Decree of 6 September 2017, which was drawn up in collaboration with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the INCC. Since the drug law has not been reinstated since then, the second category of cannabis possession offences, namely possession for personal use and without aggravating circumstances for which the lesser penalties of Article 2ter, 1 to 3° are applicable, has become obsolete. Consequently, all the offences relating to possession of cannabis were covered by the sentences of 2bis. Article 61(2) of the new Royal Decree does not have a new legal interpretation. It is therefore a matter of restoring the spirit of the 2003 reform, but in a text of better quality and sufficiently precise so that everyone knows what is permitted or not. This does not lead to fundamental changes in the current drug policy, which has been taken up since 2015 in the new COL15/2015 directive. In a way, this directive already provides for more severe action to be taken in response to the finding of possession of cannabis for personal use, since the illegal product will always be confiscated by the police service which made the finding. However, on the whole, the same principles regarding possession of cannabis for personal use and without aggravating circumstances prevail. The possession of a quantity of cannabis less than 3 grams or of a single cannabis plant without any indication of sale, aggravating circumstances or disorder to public order continues to be the lowest priority in prosecutions, and will result in a simplified record. However, it may still be derogated from because of local situations, in the event of a directive issued by the College of King's Prosecutors, or in consultation between the mayor, the police and the prosecutor's office. In accordance with the Government Agreement, Belgium does not in fact apply a policy of tolerance towards illegal drugs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. My will is not to argue, but to try to understand what the exact impact of this decree is. If I can hear you correctly, the 2005 directive placed this type of problem as a top priority, and today the text is being cleaned up. For personal consumers who are in possession of up to 3 grams or a single cannabis plant, a simplified report is limited to a simple report, while saying that zero tolerance is applied. I sum up your answer, as a Lambda citizen I am. Is that correct? Who says no word consent. Thank you for your confirmation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u60	Minister, the central file of notices of seizure, delegation, assignment, collective settlement of debts and protest, in short FCA, was created in 2011 by the National Chamber of Judicial Officers (CNHB) and constitutes a data bank to which various users defined by law have access. On the basis of article 1391 of the Judicial Code, it is provided that notaries, lawyers, registries of courts of first instance, mediators of debts, judicial officers, etc. may consult the notices contained in the FCA. Only judicial officers, magistrates, clerks and tax collectors have direct access to this file. Banks have indirect access to the file through the National Bank. Lawyers, notaries and debt mediators also have indirect access, including through an application to the authority responsible for their authentication. Thus, for lawyers, the intervention of orders is, under article 1391 of the Judicial Code, required. According to my information, the FCA consultation system through orders has not yet been implemented. Lawyers should therefore apply to a judicial officer for any consultation with the FCA, which obviously entails a cost. I would therefore like, Mr Minister, to take stock of the consultation of the central file of notices of seizure by lawyers. Do lawyers have to contact a judicial officer to consult the FCA? How much does this procedure cost? Are lawyers now in a position to consult with the CFA through orders? If so, is there a plan to implement the FCA consultation for lawyers through the orders? What is the deadline? How?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u61	Mr Goffin, Article 1391, § 1, paragraph 1 of the Judicial Code specifies that "lawyers, at the intervention of the Order of French-speaking and German-speaking Bar Associations and of Orde van Vlaamse Balies, judicial officers and receivers of the administration of direct contributions, the administration of VAT, registration and the general administration of customs and excises, regional receivers, members of the staff of Agentschap Vlaamse Belastingsdienst and the provincial and municipal receivers responsible for prompting a procedure of recovery on the merits by means of seizure against a specified person may take note of the opinions provided for in Articles 1390 to 1390 quater established on behalf of that person." In other words, if a lawyer wishes to obtain data from the central notice file, he or she is allowed to conduct this search only through the order on which he or she depends. In this regard, the OVB has established an authentic source to certify the status of lawyer in the leadership of its members. They are therefore able to consult the central file of opinions through their ordinal body. On the other hand, the authentic source of the OBFG would still be under development, so that the consultation of the central file of notices for French-speaking lawyers through their order is not yet timely. De facto and de jure, they are still deprived of effective access to this data bank. However, if a judicial officer is given a warrant of judicial recovery by a lawyer, thus complying with the legal requirement of article 1391 mentioned above, he will be able to consult the files in question in the context of the file for which he is in charge on behalf of his attorney. The judicial officer will then have the legal purpose required to do so. In this case, the cost of the consultation consists of the amount of the legal remuneration, two euros, to increase the right of information, pursuant to Article 13, 3°, and the royal decree of 30 November 1976 fixing the tariff of the acts performed by judicial officers in civil and commercial matters as well as that of certain allowances, to 14,61 euros excluding VAT for 2017. I will not fail to contact the OBFG so that it accelerates the measures allowing its members to connect to the central file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. That's good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic756x.u63	Question No 21351 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question, as is question No 21259 by Mrs Özen.
