ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 14922 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u2	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, thank you for your good wishes that I return to you, of course, and that I also express to the whole committee. I have already sent my wishes to the Minister at 00:02 on 1 January. I reformulate them to you and I hope that you will also continue to do me a little service, namely that this beautiful barracks in Tournai remains of course in Tournai. Minister, for years, Defence has been providing the City of Tournai with the Saint John Barracks, including the BM9 Block, to accommodate homeless people in the area during the night during the winter season. Since last year, the barracks were requisitioned by Fedasil to accommodate the refugee candidates, so it is no longer able to accommodate the homeless. My goal is certainly not to oppose each other but to find lasting solutions for all! During the migration crisis in summer 2015, the government promised to provide an alternative solution for the reception of the homeless. National Defence had promised that the homeless could continue to be accommodated at the Saint John Barracks as a result of exchanges with the Urban Social Relay in Tournai. Moreover, on 6 October 2015, the government, through the voices of the Secretaries of State Théo Francken and Elke Sleurs, assured me that the problem of hosting homeless people in Tournai for the Great Cold Plan was on its agenda. The note of the Council of Ministers of 7 August 2015 attests this by stating very clearly that a solution in this regard would be sought between your cabinet and those of Mrs Sleurs and Mr Francken. It must be noted, however, that for last winter and this winter no logistical or material assistance came from the government. Tournai therefore had to take the lead with the help of the CPAS, which provided a building to accommodate the homeless. Unfortunately, this solution is only temporary. The building is now sold as part of the restructuring of the Centre hospitalier de Wallonie picarde and will no longer be usable for the Plan great cold as of next year. After a meeting held in Tournai last September with various stakeholders in the case, including a member of your firm, a lasting solution could be found to ensure the implementation of the "great cold" plan in Tournai in the years to come. It consists of the use of an old chapel located within the Saint John barracks. This building is not used by the army or FEDASIL. Moreover, it is for the moment in an outdated state. Its compliance seems to be a very sustainable solution for the reception of homeless people. Irrespective of the future political decisions to be taken within the framework of the plan for the geographical location of the Belgian military districts, could you tell me whether the army and the government are prepared to commit themselves to undertaking the various works necessary to bring the building into conformity and to accommodate the homeless in the context of the future "great cold" plans? If so, could you give me the agenda for the next steps? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u3	Mr Delannois, first of all, I would like to point out that housing for the homeless is a matter of local competence and therefore not a matter for the Defence. I must be clear about that. On the other hand, you know very well that my department helps when it can, according to specific agreements with the local authorities. However, as long as the government has not made a decision on the geographic location of the neighbourhoods, I would prefer not to comment on the possible allocation of part of the Saint John Barracks to house homeless people. In any case, it will not be used permanently in this sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u4	Minister, you didn't teach me anything by telling me that this was a local jurisdiction. I know that, but it's not me...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u5	You have not yet (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u6	No, but it wasn't me in 2015 who said – by your mouth, as well as by those of Mr Franken and Mrs Sleurs and Mrs Marghem, who sometimes forgets that she comes from Tournai –: "we will find a solution". As long as I hear that you are going – and when I say "you", I am not aiming at you personally; I am talking about the government – finding one, it is relatively logical that I come to ask you how you solved the problem, as you promised me. When you tell me it's a local problem, you don't teach me anything. On the other hand, you teach me that your government is the king in creating problems in Tournai without ever finding a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hufkens' 15278 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u8	Minister, a press article published on November 5th mentions that the Barracks in Poitie would not meet the conditions necessary to accommodate more activities within the Barracks. It does refer to several buildings that would have to be renovated because they do not meet the standards of public safety and health. At present, does the Barracks of Puisie meet all the conditions necessary to be able to be assigned additional activities in its buildings?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u9	Mr Delannois, the district of Puisie has a certain potential to host additional activities. Overall, the condition of the buildings is good, but this is only one of the many criteria taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u10	Are you done? I wonder if we're not making fun of people. [[It's okay.]] I hear that the building in Puisie is very good and I assume that the current press is wrong when it says that there are problems with the buildings and the old barracks. I'm glad for the barracks in Puie. I would also remind you that elsewhere you have invested 39 million euros, which you are ready to put in the trash.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u11	Minister, the federal government's strategic vision for defence provides for a decrease in Belgian military quarters in the country. The geographical location of the barracks still needs to be defined through a political agreement within the government. Within the principles adopted in December 2015 by the Council of Ministers restricted and acted by the Council of Ministers of 29 June 2016 is the assurance of a regional balance, during the implementation phase for the distribution of neighbourhoods, staff and capacities. My question will be simple. Minister, is SHAPE, located in Cambron-Casteau, part of the infrastructure you're taking into account in your military neighbourhood allocation plan, as Minister Marghem recently reported on television? We can go listen to her again, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u12	As I have already communicated in various oral and written questions – written questions Nos. 584, 893, 930 and 944, and oral questions Nos. 5129, 8044, 11272, 12950 and 13635 – the future geographical distribution of Defence will take into account the strategic vision, the government's agreement, the north-south balance, the well-being of staff and the outcome of political negotiations. This will, of course, have an impact on the future of neighbourhoods. In concrete terms, the future of neighbourhoods will be known after the government's decision, and any conclusion is therefore premature until the government has agreed on a geographical location plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u13	Minister, do you know why you have questions? That's because you're not answering. So I'm going to rest it for you again. My question is not about whether the geographical distribution has been made. I ask you a clear and precise question: in this division, do you consider SHAPE to be part of the province of Hainaut in terms of military defence? I know the answer, but I'd like to hear it from your mouth. Indeed, Mrs Marghem tells me that it is indeed necessary to take into account that SHAPE is part of the Hainaut. Tell your colleague that SHAPE is not necessarily National Defence. I wish to hear it from your mouth.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u14	Mr Delannois, we must be clear. Within SHAPE, many Belgian soldiers and civilians work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u15	I'm not asking you if there are Belgians working there, I'm asking you if it's National Defence!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u16	Your question is whether there are Belgians working there, yes or no? If there are Belgian soldiers, yes or no? Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u17	Belgian soldiers who depend on National Defence? I'm not sure you know the file perfectly! It doesn't matter, Trump will fix the problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u18	There was good news about Peutie anyway. Questions Nos 15492 by Mrs Hufkens and 15524 by Mrs Fonck will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u19	Thank you, Madam President. My two questions seem to have been merged, I'll ask both. First of all, a short question, Minister. I quote an answer you gave on 5 October 2016. I have always said that I want to take the next step by the end of the year. We're going to the end of the year now. If we are in the initial phase and we are starting the programme phase, I will soon have a discussion with the Council of Ministers to get into the programme phase. That's the exact stage we're in today. I would like an answer to the following questions. What exactly is the correct state of this dossier? Do you and the government intend to replace the fighter planes? Secondly, was the replacement of those fighter planes discussed at the Council of Ministers since 5 October? If not, for what reason? If so, why are we not in this programme phase at the moment? Finally, if you intend to replace the fighter planes, what new timing do you propose to take the next step in this dossier? Then I have a second question concerning the contact register. Last year, the committee had the pleasure of hearing a statement from Colonel Harold Van Pee. This presentation dealt with the market exploration organised by the Belgian Defence in the context of the file on the replacement of the F-16 fighter aircraft. Colonel Van Pee spoke, among other things, about the high level of transparency in this dossier. I quote Mr Harold Van Pee: "Too open communication at this stage can lead to a situation in which candidates can move into a stronger position with regard to the Belgian Defence. There is a risk that interim results will be published which will expose the strengths and weaknesses of the candidates openly. The fewer agencies and manufacturers have information on the other proposals, the better the Belgian State can position itself at a later stage. During this preparatory phase, the Defence Staff is very transparent about the process aspects of the programme. For this purpose, the DOD keeps a record of all its contacts. The preliminary survey was published on the Defence website and several press releases have already been organised. Belgian Defence goes far beyond what is common in neighbouring countries: it is only from the programme phase, from the moment the purchase process is effectively started, or even from the acquisition phase, when the first binding commitments have been made. So much for the quote. I understand that the Defence Staff wants to be very transparent as long as the information does not fall into the hands of the agencies and the manufacturers. That's right. I can follow that. Defence would also have a contact register. I have a few questions about this contact register. Firstly, Minister, can you confirm that this register exists effectively? Second, is this registry up-to-date? Is it frequently modified? Thirdly, what types of contacts are included in this register? Fourthly and finally, can the members of this committee or possibly the members of the Army Procurement and Sales Commission have access to this register?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u20	Minister, in an answer to one of my written questions, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has revealed the government's willingness to maintain nuclear capability for fighter aircraft that will replace the F-16s. I quote: "In the Alliance, Belgium accepted five decades ago that its fighter aircraft have both conventional and nuclear capabilities. Taking into account a joint analysis of the global threat, NATO is asking us to continue to maintain our available fighter aircraft for possible such missions. We intend to fulfil all our obligations in this context." In addition to the fact that it is therefore NATO that dictates government policy, Didier Reynders thus reveals what could be expected but that the government had not so far dared to assert openly. If this choice is confirmed, the PTB obviously condemns it. The choice of replacing fighter jets for billions of euros is already, in itself, a very bad choice, but opting for nuclear capability is totally going into a climbing game with potentially dramatic consequences. This would also mean that the Gripen, one of the five candidates, would de facto be out of play. Why? Because Sweden is making the political choice not to allow Saab to sell its aircraft with nuclear capability by virtue of the fact that the country has signed the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. This is a consistent country with its signatures. It was also said that Dassault would also withdraw his Rafale from the race simply because the nuclear weapons stationed in Belgium were American and would be incompatible with French aircraft. This is a communication from Dassault dated 26 June 2015. Minister, do you confirm Minister Reynders' assertion that the government intends to replace the F-16s with planes that also have nuclear capability? Do you not consider that this nuclear capability is incompatible with the commitments of Belgium, which not only signed the non-proliferation agreement in 1975, but also committed itself in the government agreement and in a resolution of April 2015, to work through concrete steps towards nuclear disarmament? I repeat that Sweden seems to be consistent with its choices on this matter. If the choice of nuclear capability is confirmed, it would seem that it would then greatly reduce the scope of the possibilities and plead in favour of the American aircraft which would agree with the American nuclear bombs stationed on Belgian soil. However, it is known that American aircraft in general, and the F-35 aircraft in particular, are the most expensive. The F-35, whose cost is estimated at 150 million euros the unit, has indeed been judged the most expensive plane in history, so much so that even President Trump would have announced his willingness to subscribe it. Would this eventually be a disguised way of responding to Washington's injunctions and its military-industrial complex? The budgetary consequences of this choice would again fall on the population. I'm done with my questions and I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u21	Madam President, Minister, the replacement of the present fighter aircraft is a preliminary phase. Then, of course, the programme phase follows. The route was already explained in this committee by Colonel Van Pee in February of last year. During the programme phase, a dossier must be submitted to the government for approval of its start-up, after which a Request for Government Proposal is sent to the relevant authorities. I have one simple and specific question: what is the state of this programme phase?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my intention, and I am convinced of it, and I am also convinced of the government's intention, to replace the F-16 and therefore to buy new fighter planes. For the purpose of withdrawing the F-16 dynamometers from circulation, ideally the contract for the replacement of these aeroplanes should be notified in the second half of 2018. The Defense Department's staff provides for a year and a half to bring the procedure to a successful conclusion. We are ready for the launch of the specifications, also called Request for Government Proposal or RFGP. As far as nuclear missions are concerned, the maintenance of Belgian Defence combat aircraft for these missions is the decision of the government, a decision which I will respect. As I have already specified in my reply to Mr Top's oral question No 13476, the dossier, in the phase of a request for prior agreement, will be submitted to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. This file will contain the award criteria that will be used to complete the RFGP. As prescribed by the relevant administrative process, the Parliamentary Committee on Military Procurement will be informed of the matter in advance to the Council of Ministers. The level of publicity of the RFGP will be the subject of a government decision as soon as the final version is made available to state agencies. But you know that, as far as I am concerned, I am in favour of a complete opening of the publication of the dossier. The RFGP is the specification. This means that, on the basis of this document, the Government and Defence must be able to identify the best partner for the next 40 years in the field of air operations, in accordance with the amount foreseen for the programme. The RFGP will be an expression of the need of the Belgian government. You should know that Belgium has no obligation to the agencies which have shown themselves to be candidates for the replacement of the F-16 on the basis of the RFI, the previous document. As far as your question on economic benefits is concerned, I refer to the answer to Mr Calomne's written question No 963. European public procurement rules do not support the clean economy. Nevertheless, as stated in the Government Agreement, military investments can and must be a source of economic incentives and innovation. Mr Top, I can confirm that the AcaP office is indeed keeping a register of its contacts and that this register is up-to-date. This register shall re-establish all contacts with the State agencies and with the representatives of the respective manufacturers. Moreover, your colleague, Mr Hellings, regularly asks me for an overview of these contacts. They were published in the written questions and answers related to Defense. For the period from January 2014 to July 2016, I can therefore refer to my answers to the written questions of Mr Hellings nr. 65 of 20 October 2014, No. 168 of 5 March 2015 and No. 772 of 30 June 2016. There is a niche in front of you, Mr Top, concerning the contacts we have had since July 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u23	Minister, if I understand your answer to my first question correctly, the file, if it depends on the military summit, will be ready for publication. Apparently, the time is running out, if it takes a year and a half to go through the entire file and examine it, in order to make the decision effectively by the second half of 2018. I conclude from your reply that we will hear a message shortly. I find it strange that Mr Yüksel is joining with a question for a state of affairs. I thought Mr Yüksel belonged to the majority. (...): Should members of the majority not ask questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u24	I do, but I find it strange that the majority do not know the state of affairs. As regards the questions on the register, I would like to thank you for referring to your answers to Mr Hellings' written questions. I do have a thought. You said that contacts with the state agencies and the representatives of the manufacturers were recorded. You know as well as I do that other people are entering that world, who are not officially linked to a state agency or a constructor, namely the lobbyists. In addition, I would have liked to know whether those contacts are recorded and kept up to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u25	I would like to answer that, Mr Top. A contact must be registered as soon as there is effective and open contact in connection with the replacement file. I believe that Colonel Van Pee and his and also the people of my cabinet are acting very purely. Of course, it is always the question of the extent to which contacts should be maintained or not. When I speak to the British ambassador, and he asks me the question: "What is the situation with the file?" Is that a formal contact with the replacement file, or is that an informal question from someone who, in general, diplomatically wants to know where it stands? That's a very difficult story. I believe that the AcaP team knows very well, and I myself as a politically responsible too, that if we want to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion, we must consider ethical considerations as much as possible. In this sense, I trust that it will be recorded effectively where necessary with whom one is in contact. It is a fact that not everyone can just present themselves; it does not work that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u26	For the record, I do not doubt the people who deal with the file, let that be clear. You have given an example of an ethical balance, concerning an ambassador who informally asks about the state of affairs. Of course, it's normal for him to show interest in the state of affairs. That is indeed not something that is written in that register. However, there are other issues which remain informal but which are closer to the dossier. It concerns me about that question. The question is how is that judged? I'm sure people are doing the right thing. That was my approximate question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u27	I would like to add the following: if anyone in this House has any suggestions on additional matters to be kept, we will assess them on their feasibility and so on, but we will respond favourably to them. The impression can be given very quickly that there are a great many lobbyists of all kinds around the dossier active and on the move. That may be your experience, but that's not mine. You also know that the doors of my cabinet are fairly closed. However, if you have specific suggestions or the identification of persons who manifest themselves as lobbyists for any group or whatever, then I would like to hear from you, either in public or in private, then we can see what kind of problem might arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u28	Mr Hellings, you were just too late to ask your question. The answer has already been given. You are entitled to a brief reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u29	Madam President, I'm so sorry. I was on another commission and I got lost in this new building. Having not heard the minister's answer, I will not be able to reply. But I will read carefully the Minister's answers to my question, which I was unable to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u30	Minister, I will try to see if I understand your answer. You tell us that very soon, in a short time, the government will decide whether or not the replacement of the F-16 aircraft will have a nuclear capability. That's what you told us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u31	Mr Van Hees, I said that the government will decide on the RFGP as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u32	And so also on nuclear capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u33	The issue of nuclear capability (whether a device should be capable of carrying that weapon or not) is a government decision. I did not say that this decision would be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u34	This decision will not necessarily be taken as soon as possible. But when will it then be taken? That is what we are asking ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u35	As I answered, this is a government decision that, as the competent minister, I will respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u36	All right. So we don't know when the government will make that decision. But he'll take it at some point. Pending this decision by the government, you are telling me that you are not taking a position or, in any case, that you are not communicating it. But Minister Reynders already replied that it would be with nuclear capability. We finally realize that there is a great chance that the F-16's successor will be the most expensive aircraft in history, the F-35. It is also a clear contradiction with the non-proliferation treaty, which was signed by Belgium. As I said, a country is therefore: when Sweden signs something, it makes sense. When Belgium signs a treaty, it obviously does not make sense; because the supreme reason, which is the reason for NATO, prevails.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u37	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the majority is allowed to ask questions so that they can exercise their parliamentary control role. Maybe this is different in Harelbeke, but that's on you. Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I understand that the Request for Proposal will be put down in the near future. We are, of course, looking forward to this with great interest. I've just been reviewing the timing that Colonel Van Pee gave me last year. I read that the implementation would start from 2019 and that the replacement of the first devices is planned from 2023. We must ensure that this timing is not compromised. By the way, this was also the thrust of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u38	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Stéphane Crusnière's 15559 was postponed because he was on another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u39	Madam President, since this is my first question of the year, I would like to extend my best wishes to you and to the Minister and, of course, to his colleagues. I would ask you to pass them on to the officials responsible for defence on behalf of the Socialist Group. Although I know that our exchanges are lively and passionate, I wanted to wish you great health. Minister, your draft general budget for the 2017 budget year announces, on page 33, "the completion of the relocation of the Jambes barracks in Amay". It would be time for the relocation of the engineering school in the Wispelaere neighbourhood, announced in 2009, to finally end. Indeed, while some blocks - such as the accommodation, the staff, the court rooms and the premises for instructors - are operational, the necessary workshops and the training complex are still lacking. The first start, initially planned for 2016, seems to be delayed to 2020, more than ten years after the announcement of the move. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Can you provide us with the amounts allocated and the schedule of work to complete, as announced in your budget proposal, the facilities required at the Amay barracks? Can you give a firm date for the first school year at the future school of Amay? It would be harmful for a move to take place in a decoupled manner. Can you reassure the trainers that the actual start-up in Amay will take place only once the two military quarters of Jambes have been transferred? What will happen to the buildings in the Wispelaere neighbourhood, as soon as the Engineering School has permanently moved to Amay? Following the closure of the Jambes school, what will be the fate reserved for the Musée du Génie, previously run by the barracks? Will it be taken over as an antenna of the MRA and/or the future War Heritage Museum? Finally, what will happen to the training workshops in the district of Sart-Hulet? Thank you in advance for your answers. Minister, one or two elements were not included in my initial question. As I tabled this question a long time ago, I updated it. So, I would understand that you don't have all the answers. You can send them to me in writing, if you like.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u40	Madam President, Mrs Fernandez, I also wish you all the best. I look forward to our future passionate discussions, as you have pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u41	Minister, have you started yoga this new year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u42	I'll start!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u43	That's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u44	Fernandez Fernandez, the following work has been planned on the 2017 investment budget: the development of a workshop complex for a budget of €190,000 planned this year, the construction of a training complex for a budget of €5,500,000 planned this year and the following year, in 2018, and the construction of an administrative complex and changing rooms for a budget of €8 million planned for 2018 and 2019. The first academic entry of the Department of Engineering located in Amay will take place as soon as the works are completed, here I am quite clear, that is to say in September 2019. The decision on the future of the Engineering Museum will be made by the War Heritage Institute after its creation in April.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u45	Minister, thank you for these answers. The move will therefore take place nine years after the announcement and not ten years. We're making a year. That's it already. You can of course be sure that we will be attentive in the future. I will not fail to come back with other questions. If I could have the two or three answers to the items you didn't have in writing, I would be grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u46	Madam President, Minister, as you can see, I do not just have the obsession of planes. I'm also going to the helicopters. Our Defence now benefits from the services of eight NH90 helicopters. Four of these were built in Marignane, France in a "TTH" transport version. The other four were assembled in Donauworth, Germany in the NFH version for rescue at sea and to equip our two frigates with the Marine Component. It's the helicopters that replace the famous Sea King. Already in 2014, the Dutch Defense - which also has NH90s - had fired the alarm bell. She had discovered disturbing forms of corrosion after the use of these helicopters over the sea. At the time, the Belgian operator of the Air Component wanted to clarify that the Belgian aircraft are of another version (Step B+), more advanced than that of the Dutch. The batave aircraft were assembled in Italy. The European NHlndustries consortium has five assembly lines across Europe. Very recently, a report aired during a French TV news 2 reported the same serious technical concerns for NH90s detained by the French Defense this time. Presented in the subject as French helicopters, 60% of the aircraft are currently grounded: they would not support sand or seawater. A French mechanic told France 2 that this device would be used twice as fast as the others: "There are no products limiting corrosion to manufacturing. There were design defects in the parts to prevent seawater from entering the machine. It was badly sealed in fact." The French Defence seems to be experiencing the same setbacks as the Dutch Defence with regard to aircraft that we also have. Have the defective French NH90s also been partly built in Marignane, the same factory where our NH90 TTHs were assembled? Have any contacts with French Defence been made in order to confront the two experiences? Secondly, do the four Belgian NH90 NHHs also experience problems of excessive corrosion during their passages at sea? Since these NH90s have been specially designed for marine environments and replace the Sea King, they are therefore forced to fly over the waters. Thirdly, the French report refers to particularly long maintenance delays. How many hours of maintenance are required for each flight hour of a Belgian NH90? Does Defence have the same spare parts supply concerns as French Defence? Fourth and final question, have any contacts been made with the 12 other countries that also bought these NH90s?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u47	Mr Hellings, the French NH90 helicopters (versions TTH and NFH) were assembled in Marignane by Airbus Helicopter France. In addition to regular bilateral contacts, numerous exchanges take place between the various NH90 user countries through the NATO agency responsible for the NH90 programme, the NAHEMA – NATO Helicopter Design and Development, Production Management Agency. To date, during the various periodic inspections carried out after 600 hours of flight, few problems related to abnormal wear and tear or excessive corrosion have been observed. These are our helicopters. Moreover, the conditions of service of French helicopters are quite different from those of Belgian helicopters. The industry has also taken preventive and corrective measures to address these corrosion problems. Based on feedback from NH90 users, the industry has implemented a number of actions to ensure an acceptable level of maintenance. Initial results have reduced some maintenance activities. Belgian Defence has a support contract guaranteeing the supply of spare parts. In addition, it concluded an agreement with the Dutch Defence a few years ago to create a common stock of spare parts. It has been effective since November 2014 and makes it possible to use the coins of both nations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u48	You did not answer one of my questions about the number of hours of maintenance required for each flight hour of a Belgian NH90. I suppose that number must exist and it would be interesting for you to give it to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u49	To be clear, the number exists but does not mean anything today. Indeed, we are launching the program, that is, we are in the initial phase of operation of capability, which means that we are not completely in full operational capability. If we compare the numbers, which I will give you even if they are worthless today, we see that our helicopters are the most operational among those of all users. The Belgians are a little better than the others. If you want, I'll give you the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u50	My question was not to look for the little beast, minister, but simply to compare the situation with that of other countries which, visibly, as far as our northern and southern neighbours are concerned, face real technical difficulties. As far as your answer is concerned, it is good for European Defence to consult on this subject. Obviously, there is an industrial and technical problem. If problems accumulate, concerted action by European customers towards NHIndustries will be necessary. If everyone came separately, it wouldn't make sense. These helicopters are involved wherever they are manufactured in Europe, since they are built in five locations on five assembly lines. You say that our helicopters are not affected like others, or less affected: it's amazing. Belgium would be an island in an ocean of problems with NH90s. It is important that the NH90 be able to carry out the missions of the Sea King, particularly those over the sea and rescue missions at sea. If, of course, Defence cannot use these NH90s to do what the Sea Kings were doing right, it would obviously be serious and it would be a shame, serious because it is human lives at sea and damage because it is a substantial budgetary investment. I hear that our NHs are mainly used for VIP transport, so not over the sea, not over the sand. I do not know if this information can be verified, but for environmentalists, helicopters used for rescue at sea must be used for rescue at sea without technical problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u51	I'll give you some more information. First of all, we must realize that there have been delays in deliveries. We are the last to have been supplied or delivered, which means that the industry itself has already taken steps to ensure that the problems are taken into account. On the other hand, when you say that they are not able to do what is necessary at sea, I can inform you that as of today, there are more than 70 actions that have been taken at sea. So we are well able to do the right thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for that clarification, which is why the exchange is of interest. A good idea for a next spring visit would be to take some members of the commission to visit the NH90s in action at sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u53	Madam President, Minister, the Beauvechain base is very close to my heart. I have already asked you several questions on the subject. On the other hand, we had the opportunity to visit it at your initiative, and I thank you for that. During the budget debates, you said that work would be done to improve the infrastructure of this military quarter. You even mentioned an amount of EUR 10 million. Minister, can you give me more details on the work that will be done at Beauvechain? What future do you envisage for this base? Can you give me the schedule of work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u54	Mr Crusnière, in addition to the small maintenance and improvement works, the major infrastructure works planned in Beauvechain on the 2017 budget are the construction of the new Control and Reporting Centre (CRC) for an estimated amount of 9 million euros. Work is planned for 2017 and 2018. Depending on the availability of funds, the following work should also be carried out in more or less the short term: the construction of car parks for mobile fuel tanks, the construction of an awning for Ground Support Equipment (GSE) equipment and the replacement of the roof of an administrative building.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers that confirm this willingness to continue to invest on an important basis for Defence and Walloon Brabant. I can only rejoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u56	Questions Nos 15707 and 15737 by Mr Calomne were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u57	Minister, according to reports, the Dutch mine hunters face technical problems. Two Dutch minehunters were recently deployed as part of a NATO minehunters flottle in the Baltic Sea. One of them had to drop out early because of engine problems. Apparently, the other ship was yelling for maintenance. In an interview, the ship's commander said: "The ship is functioning." We're getting it fixed, but the intensity of the malfunctions is increasing. In addition, parts are increasingly difficult to obtain. According to the commander, it is still possible to hold out, but it will probably not be possible to do so within five years. This is problematic, as the new mine hunters are expected to arrive within seven years at the earliest. In addition, safety may be compromised. In the engine rooms of one of those Dutch mine hunters ran out of a leak in the lubricating oil pipe 800 liters of oil in the hold. In addition, a leak in the oil line can lead to a fire in the engine room. The ship in question was put into service in 1989. It is one of the youngest mine hunters in the Dutch Navy. Our mine hunters are employed approximately as long or longer. Minister, are you aware of the Dutch problem? Are there similar problems in the Belgian Navy? Does the intensity of the malfunctions also increase? Have there been any serious defects in recent years? Do you think the mine sweepers can remain operational until the planned replacement date of these devices? The Dutch ship commander believes that their mine hunters will no longer be operational within seven years. What impact does this have on our navy and cooperation with the Dutch?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u58	Mr Top, maintaining what you call old Dutch and Belgian mine hunters does not, in fact, go by itself and cost efforts. The mine hunters of both countries are subject to a similar maintenance regime, which, as you know, is carried out by the Belgian Navy in Zeebrugge. Dated systems are replaced when components are no longer available or more modern environmental and welfare legislation make this necessary. In addition to the planned maintenance, there are indeed breaks. However, according to our measurements, the frequency of the breakdowns is not higher than before. However, they feel heavier in operationality because there are fewer platforms in total use. With the necessary efforts, such as the replacement of obsolete operational computer systems, vessels are expected to be able to keep in operation until the planned replacement. As you know, Belgium and the Netherlands are striving for a joint new mine-fighting capacity which, as you know, is part of the strategic vision for Defence. I therefore expect, bottomline, that, if efforts are made, we will be able to meet the expected level of ambition of mine control capacity until full replacement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u59	Minister, I am pleased that you confirm that we can keep the vessels going at the required level of ambition until the time of replacement. That is a bit in contrast to the opinion of that Dutch person.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u60	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u61	I know. That's exactly what I was gonna come to. Perhaps that is why the pressure in the Netherlands is being increased in order to reach decisions quickly. You're right about that. I am glad, however, that you can confirm that until then the vessels can be kept in service to the level of ambition required.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u62	Madam President, Minister, on January 12, the Royal Army Museum (RMA) again had to close its doors for the day. Why? No sufficient staff to ensure the safety of the collections and the public. It seems that your decisions on budget restraints continue to have a visible impact that leads to dysfunctions of this important institution, which has been charging its admissions for a year while the museum has been available for free since 1920. In short, after the cascading resignations, the delay in the designation of successors and the uncertainties regarding the future of the institution - not to mention your ambitions for regionalisation and potential privatization of collections, in the long run - I think I can clearly state once again, with supporting evidence, that you have declared war on this scientific institution. This situation may lead her to return the weapons permanently. Minister, how do you explain the "forced closure" of the MRA, on two occasions - it seems to me - during this month of January? Are other days of closure due to lack of resources and staff planned or to be feared in 2017? What's your status in setting up your War Heritage lnstitute? What about human resources - I am thinking here, for example, of the sufficient number of full-time equivalents to ensure the optimal functioning of the future institution - and budgetary resources? In addition, is the replacement of military personnel currently serving at the MRA, who will gradually retire?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u63	Mr President, dear colleague, the exceptional closure - information I learned in the newspapers - of the Royal Museum of Army and Military History (MRA), on Thursday, January 12, 2017, was announced on the Museums Portal. As a result of the sick leave of two ARM security personnel, combined with the year-end leave of other staff, it was not possible to ensure the physical safety of visitors. This monitoring staff is trained to respond to an accident, fire, bomb alert or more serious event. It cannot therefore be replaced by staff assigned to other tasks which have not undergone adequate training. As confirmed to me by those responsible, the decision was therefore taken in an emergency. In order to avoid a further closure, the ad interim director will appeal, if necessary, to his detachment from Bastogne, knowing that this is not an optimal situation. At the same time, a structural solution is sought. This is therefore not a budgetary problem. With regard to the War Heritage Institute (WHI), the draft law is currently under consideration by the Council of State. The WHI will receive the necessary resources for its human and budgetary functioning, in accordance with the Plan for the Reform of Military Memory and Heritage as approved by the Council of Ministers on 20 October 2016. When military personnel serving at the MRA are retired, it will be up to the WHI to provide for their replacement. The final goal is to achieve an autonomous WHI, without military personnel, by 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u64	Minister, it's fun, because you're justifying yourself by telling me that it's announced on the portal, but you're learning it from the press. It's something important. I'm a little concerned that, as the appropriate minister, you learned from the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u65	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u66	A lot of things are important, minister. There are, of course, many more important things. What is probably more important than the MRA is the willingness of the N-VA to touch again in Brussels, here through this museum, sabotage one of its institutions. That's the truth. It's a bias. That is what you are doing in your policy and in the policy of this government. Minister, of course, there are things much more important than closing the MRA one day. These more important things, that's what this closure hides.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Sébastian Pirlot's 15781 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u68	Madam President, Minister, an agreement was reached at the end of December 2016 for an inclusive transition and transparent and democratic elections in the Democratic Republic of the Congo at the end of 2017. Your colleague, Didier Reynders, welcomed the conclusion of this agreement, which we have already discussed in the Committee on External Relations. He said that "Belgium will be attentive to the implementation of this text, as well as to the measures to be taken to restore democratic space and rights and freedoms, so that all opinions can be expressed in the country and that the elections can be an authentic reflection of the aspirations of the Congolese people". We can all welcome this statement. Minister, following the agreement reached at the end of December, what about your department's 2017 missions to the DRC? Have you mentioned this point with your colleagues in Foreign Affairs and Cooperation in order to have a coordinated approach of three Ds, in particular with regard to the logistical aspects of the implementation of this text? Will there be a possible participation of our army in logistical support during the organization of these future elections?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u69	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, in 2017, Defence's mission is to organize bilateral activities in Belgium and the DRC as part of the military partnership. These activities have already been approved by the Council of Ministers. Any new missions will need to be evaluated in due course, in consultation with the relevant FPS. On the other hand, I would like to point out that, out of a budget of more than EUR 60 million for operations, more than 10% is invested in the Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u70	Mr Minister, I thank you for this answer, which is, however, incomplete, particularly with regard to the organisation of elections. As I have had the opportunity to tell Minister Reynders, it seems to me that now that an agreement is taking shape, our country cannot stay on the balcony and must, on the contrary, give its effective support to the organization of these elections. This assistance must be translated into two initiatives. First of all, it is a financial contribution. I would remind you that our Parliament voted on a resolution to this effect in July, in which I introduced an amendment proposing tranche funding. The aim was to move forward and avoid being in such a situation that the power in place would finally answer: "We would have liked to have organized the elections. Unfortunately, we cannot do this, for lack of financial and logistical support." I repeat, we cannot stay on the balcony in this fundamental dossier. We must think about the future of the Congolese and avoid bringing them to life the current situation in Burundi. I therefore call for financial support, as I have asked Minister Reynders, but also for defence logistics in order to organize elections quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u71	Mr Crusnière, in conclusion, I hope you will confirm that Defence is only one of the three Ds.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u72	Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u74	Questions No 15885 by Mr Calomne and No 15992 by Mr Pirlot were postponed. Since Question No 5, by Mr De Vries (H- President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The last question from the current committee meeting for Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is to put 16077.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u75	This Monday, 16 January, De Standaard informs us that "in recent years, at least 23 minors of age have been placed by Belgium on special flights, secure flights on military aircraft, to be returned to their country of origin with their families". This information would be based on police-accompanied repatriation inspection reports and would be confirmed by Stephan Parmentier (KUL), rapporteur of the committee, who had considered the policy of forced returns following the death of Semira Adamu in 1998. The latter judge, like us, this practice, if confirmed, totally aberrant. Indeed, it amounts to considering these children, from families who have not been granted the right to stay legally with us, as criminals and to repatriating them in special flights normally intended to transport convicted persons from abroad. Worse, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration tries to justify such a practice that would be unworthy of our rule of law, explaining that some families "have many children". I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Can you tell me, if that is the case, how many minors have been repatriated to their country on a special flight operated by National Defence? If such flights have taken place, can you give us details of the conditions under which these children were taken care of during these special flights operated by your department? Are they members who frame them during boarding and flying until landing? More specifically, can you assure us that at no time has a minor been in contact with a convicted person during these flights? What are the costs to Defence of this support? Do you intend to contact, if not already, your colleague in charge of the Asylum to indicate that your department will in future refuse to transport minors on military aircraft to their country of origin? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u76	Fernandez Fernandez, the repatriation of illegal foreign nationals is the responsibility of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. I therefore invite you to ask him your questions directly. The supervision of the passengers on these flights, carried out on board aircraft which I and the Minister for External Relations used, as did the Prime Minister of the time, Mr.Di Rupo, and others, is a responsibility of the Ministry of Security and the Interior. The military is therefore not involved in this task. The costs of these flights are billed by the Defence and fully covered by the Ministry of Security and Interior, via the Asylum and Migration Secretariat. The repatriation of illegal foreign nationals to their country of origin is a governmental responsibility; the Defence will contribute if it is requested as it has done for decades, that is, when a certain Mr. Courard was responsible for the Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic574x.u77	Even if you didn't tell me yes, I understand the answer is yes. The Defence has made its planes available to transport children. I did not have an answer to the question whether these children were transported along with criminals. You have told me a number of people who use these planes; I assume the Prime Minister does not travel with criminals. I am once again very concerned about the way this government treats children, minister. The only crime of these children is not being born in the right place and having parents who at some point in history, have tried, as mine did, to save them, to give them a better life. I hear you're sending me back to your colleague Franken. I hear you say this is a collective responsibility of the government. My group will therefore question the Prime Minister on this matter. Thank you.
