ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u2	Mr Prime Minister, on 26 January and 15 May you made a passionate plea in the hemisphere to renew politics together with a majority and opposition, to work together on a more virtuous policy. At that time, our Group, Ecolo-Green, was very assertive and open to that call. However, I have to note that this call is not fully accepted for the time being. This week, in the Working Party on Political Renewal, we were faced with a text by the majority, unfortunately not yet negotiated with all the groups in the hemisphere. That is not the cooperation between the majority and the opposition that we absolutely need at the moment. Fortunately, in the meantime, we will have the opportunity to work on this together, ladies and gentlemen. I am truly very satisfied with that. I want to go even further. My group welcomes a number of things that are on the table today, a number of breakthroughs that are being made. Politicians who claim that there is nothing on the table today are not people who want to renew politics but who want to break down politics. It is, for example, a very good thing, ladies and gentlemen, that there should be a system whereby we will know all the private mandates and allowances of politicians. That is a solution to an issue such as that of Yvan Mayeur, things that we should have known and that really cannot and should not have happened. Prime Minister, it can and must be much more. There are still a number of breakthroughs within reach, breakthroughs for greater transparency and confidence in politics, breakthroughs to respond to the call you made in January and May and to show a first set of important reforms before the summer. I won't bother you with all the things that are still on the table, but with one where you have to help us out. It has already been agreed today that Members of Parliament will be transparent about the contacts they have. In principle, there will be a transparency register in Parliament. That is a good thing. That question has also been asked to the government. It would be logical if the government were to enter into such a story and that not only we, but also Cabinets and Ministers would be transparent in that respect. My only question today is whether you want to commit yourself to this and in that way want to be the father of a political agreement on more cleanliness and transparency in Belgian politics. I hope so. You are the youngest Prime Minister in the history of this country, and these are moments where you can show it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u3	Prime Minister, a few months ago, when asked by my colleagues about your government's willingness to reform governance, you said that the government had to go beyond the majority/opposition divides because the citizen expected a clear and precise answer on these bad examples. The Political Renewal Working Group has completed its work since the day before yesterday. We must note the lack of consensus on essential points for political renewal, for a profound change in the behaviour of certain agents, all parties. That is not how we will give a clear and positive signal to our fellow citizens. We have gone astray in the House, in its functioning, in its rules, when these are not really the real problems of the population. Even here, we have very few agreements despite the simplicity of the proposals. Since Publifin, it doesn't stop! The climax of opacity in management has been reached at Samusocial: to grant disproportionate treatment on the account of the least favoured of our society is of an unqualified lowness! My group took an active part in this work with the firm conviction that, together, we had learned the lessons and that we really wanted a change. But, obviously, this is not the case. When these scandals emerged, we all screamed with wolves. A few days later, while some of these files are still the subject of judicial investigation or information, the emolument has fallen back and blown it out as well. Simple proposals such as the referendum, the decumulation, the political career have found no consensus, nor have our proposal to allow small parties to participate with a consultative voice in the Conference of Presidents. This has been swept away with one back of the hand, to believe that one Member is not the same as another Member. Anyway, the mountain will have given birth to a mouse! My question is simple, Prime Minister: what concrete measures, legislative or otherwise, do you think you are taking to fill this lack of consensus and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u4	Prime Minister, you are a talented ping-pong player. Every time we asked questions about the political renewal in the government, you very much referred to the parliamentary working group responsible for political renewal. You said that the government would support Parliament's efforts. What, however, have we had to establish in this working group responsible for political renewal? All the proposals made there to bring the political renewal to the government were blocked, mainly by the MR, by your party. Did that happen on your order, Mr. Prime Minister? There will be a lobby register for Members of Parliament, which is a very good thing. However, it is not going to happen for the government. Have we forgotten the bill of surrender and Kazakhgate? There was also a simple question of getting the notifications from the Council of Ministers within 48 hours, but it does not seem to be possible. Strange, but at the Flemish level, such matters can succeed. There was also a question of abolishing the staff of former ministers. You do not want to know about abolition, but you may want to carry out a reform, which is, at least, a good step. We note, however, that there are a lot of measures for Members of Parliament, including transparency. There's a consensus on that. That is very good, but there are very few proposals for the government. The decumulation is not coming, which is very unfortunate. We do not want phantom MEPs here who only come to the button on Thursday. We really don't need them. A combination of the mayorship of a large city like Bergen or Antwerp and MP does not work. The party funding also disappeared very quickly and was tucked away in the Working Party on Political Parties, which meets with closed doors. The party apparachiks can decide for themselves what everything looks like. That 70 million euros won't stand the daylight. Prime Minister, you still have time. There is another possibility to adapt recommendations. Do you intend to make any efforts with your government in the coming days? The Members of Parliament have certainly made an effort in the working group, and I would like to see the government's efforts now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had the opportunity on several occasions in plenary to address these important issues. Members of Parliament have worked intensively in recent weeks in the working group that has been set up, and the first decisions were announced last week. There is no doubt about the first important point: we need to work harder and better to gain the confidence of our fellow citizens. Everyone, both opposition and majority, is aware that it is necessary and crucial to make clear decisions and send a clear signal to strengthen that confidence of our fellow citizens in the democratic institutions. Secondly, I do have some experience with parliamentary discussions and therefore I know that it is not obvious to achieve unanimity in Parliament, even on ethical issues. This is a result of democracy, because there are different opinions. A few months ago, on behalf of the government, I launched a call for strong cooperation between majority and opposition. Mr Calvo, you have acknowledged that this cooperation between the majority and the opposition has taken place, so much so that, on a large number of subjects, significant progress has been made in the decisions which Parliament has announced in the working group. A few months ago, I believe that it would not have been possible to obtain a very large majority for greater transparency on public and private mandates, including on the issue of remuneration. A few months ago, it would have been difficult to gather a majority to drastically strengthen the Court of Auditors' control over the exercise and responsibilities in the framework of public mandates. The third important point is a clear limitation, 150 % for wages, without exception. That too is a clear signal. I would add that we are not now in a situation without rules. There are rules for MPs and government members. A great deal of rules exist and they must be respected, enforced, adapted and strengthened. I feel frustration and respect for your personal frustration, but in a democratic debate it is necessary to convince a majority. I am pleased that political will has been shown, allowing progress to be made. I insist on my point that the government wants to cooperate with Parliament. We have also taken initiatives in the government. I have, of course, recalled all the rules for members of the government and employees of cabinets, in order to prevent conflicts of interest. That goes without saying. These rules are recalled and everyone's responsibility is engaged. We will continue to look for ways to improve the situation. Without wanting to answer for too long, but to be precise, I come to one final point, in particular a lobby register. I would like to make that clear, even with the necessary nuance. I am in favour of transparency. I am in favour of combating conflicts of interest for Members of Parliament and a fortiori for members of the government; that is obvious. In this context, there are constraints that must be taken into account if we are to act intelligently and effectively. I will give some information on this subject. The first is the fact that ministerial offices are faced with numerous requests for contacts from citizens and associations who want to raise awareness of one or the other topic. The volume of these contacts is one of the objective elements of the difficulty. We are ready to discuss with you how we can move forward on this. Secondly, today there is no legal definition or regulatory definition of the interest group or the type of contacts that should give rise to communication or information. We must therefore work on this topic. As I wrote to the President of the Commission, who asked me about the subject, I would like to tell you that examples can be drawn from other countries or from the European Parliament to measure the progress that can be made in this area. I shall give some concrete examples, based on my experience in the last two years. I have had discreet meetings with Audi's CEOs with a view to investing in Audi Brussels. If these meetings had not been discreet, I am sure that it would not have been possible to convince Audi's CEOs to invest in Brussels. This is the same reasoning for AB InBev. At the time of the merger, as Prime Minister, I quietly met with the company's officials as part of the decision to be taken regarding the headquarters of AB InBev in Belgium. I am not sure that a decision could have been made if this conversation had been the subject of numerous communications. Last example. In the context of Brexit, many companies are reluctant to integrate the internal market, perhaps in Belgium. I also have contacts with insurance companies, as do the Minister of Finance. I think we need to take into account a concern for efficiency in relation to the notion of transparency. In one word, we remain determined and hope that everyone, majority and opposition, will be able to work together with common sense and a clear vision of the future for greater progress in that perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister. First of all, I want to reassure you. Our message here that there are important breakthroughs, but that it can and must be more, is not an expression of personal frustration. After all that has happened, after the Telenet affair, Kazachgate and the Samusocial file, it is a broad call in society to push ahead, to reform firmly and to do everything within reach. That's one. Secondly, I'm gonna end up positive. You are saying, and this is a breakthrough, which you will have to pay in the next few days, that you will still be open to a system of lobbying at government level, which must of course be workable. That, Mr President, is hopefully one of the adjustments that we can negotiate with each other between now and 12 July, so that we can leave on holiday with a clear message, which everyone has understood, that politics will be done in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u7	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister for his answer. It's nice to give back trust to the citizen, but we need action or it won't work! I do not think that self-satisfaction will restore that confidence to the citizens. I would like to quote an author whom I very much appreciate, Giuseppe di Lampedusa, when he makes his main character say in Le Guépard: "Does everything change so that nothing changes?" Perhaps this is the fate of the public thing? Personally, I would have wanted it to be the opposite!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u8	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. It is up to us to regain the trust of the citizen. We can only do this by taking drastic steps forward in the area of transparency. That is what we have done in committee, in the working group. A number of recommendations could go much further for us. On 12 July, we will adopt or not adopt the final recommendations. Prime Minister, I hope that they will be amended, amended by the government, which would nevertheless accept a lobby register. It may not be the lobby register that we have in mind, but a lobby register that you think is workable for your government. We look forward to that. After all, we cannot afford a second Kazachgate. We do not want any more laws being drawn up entirely by lobbyists and parliamentarians being pushed down the throat. Finally, it is regrettable that the system of cumulation is not in place. Maybe you can bring your coalition partners to that after all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u9	Mr. President, Prime Minister, last Tuesday, a new cyberattack has affected most of the world's countries. Some have been seriously affected, such as Ukraine, as Kiev has seen its subway, airport and banks paralyzed. The Chernobyl site was also reached. Our country has been hit. It was said that, in the end, we had been relatively little affected, as if we were accustomed to massive attacks. I remember the attack on Belgacom four years ago, in 2013, when we talked about a major attack. Today, five companies have been affected and it is estimated that we are doing well. And probably when compared to other countries, that is the case. Prime Minister, what is the perimeter of this attack? Have other companies been affected? Why are these companies? Were they particularly targeted or were they more fragile, more open to attack? What was the response of the Cybersecurity Centre? You told us that today there is a plan – I think the government has adopted it since April – that foresees and envisages three levels of attack. What was our country's level of attack? What was the response of the Cybersecurity Centre? What has been the CERT's response to the affected companies and others? You recently told me in committee that Belgium was not left with its arms. Nevertheless, should we not speed up a series of measures, including the implementation of this watch 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, or the consolidation of the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU), since I hear voices saying that there is probably a mechanism that should be consolidated? I also hear that the European Commission is now announcing new measures to be able to connect international centres. Will Belgium benefit from these European measures? Finally, I also hear NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg predicting that in the event of a massive attack, Article 5 of the NATO Treaty could be activated. Do you agree with this view? Under what terms and in what cases could this article be activated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are talking about June 27, but before that, there was May 12. On 12 May, the international community faced an unprecedented cyberattack. They are affected not only by private companies but also by computer services that manage sensitive policies such as, for example, public health policy. On 27 June, we saw the reissue of these attacks. The example of the paralysis of the European network of an air transport undertaking is obviously illustrative of the danger involved. The G7 is seized of our European Council on 19 June. Prime Minister, we know that many years ago we had been talking about providing our public services with a platform specifically dedicated to cybersecurity. The Federal Cyber Emergency Team (CERT) was created in 2009. On the other hand, 2015 was an even more important year since it saw the establishment of the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB). However, the question of the vulnerability of our computer systems, whether private or public, is raised. I would therefore like to ask you on a few points. Has a recent threat assessment been carried out by the CWB in collaboration with our European partners? What collaboration is currently in place at this stage between the CWB, Digital Agenda services and our specialized federal police services? Have there been any cooperation with private companies? I am thinking in particular of Microsoft. Finally, can your government take further steps to protect our businesses, especially SMEs that often do not have immediate defence capabilities in the face of such attacks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the question that I am asking was tabled on 17 June, after I asked you about the national cybersecurity plan. I wanted to know what was happening to our defence capabilities in a context where Belgium and dozens of other countries had been affected by a virus in May. Unfortunately, two days ago, new cyber attacks had to be reported. Five Belgian companies would be affected while the main targets appear to be in Ukraine and Russia. The questions I intended to ask you then, with reference to WannaCry, remain valid today. Prime Minister, what initiatives have been taken by the authorities to prevent and curb such attacks? What is the financial harm suffered by companies? Could it have been estimated? Are judicial investigations and, possibly, intelligence services under way to identify the perpetrators of these attacks? Beyond business, are there any risks to the public? Are citizens at risk of having their computer equipment infected? How to detect and respond to infections? Today, computing is everywhere and we use it in all our daily actions. This goes from social contacts, for example with Facebook, to tax returns, to numerous contacts with the administration, hence my concern. Is a campaign directed towards the general public, towards the population? Moreover, in the press this morning, a specialist from the Catholic University of Leuven pointed out that anyone could afford a computer attack if they put the price on it. In concrete terms, once again, what measures are being taken to identify and combat the sponsors of such attacks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, in just a few weeks, this is the second global attack we are facing, through Operation Ransomware. This is not the first time that we have faced this type of situation and the impact for Belgium is as follows: five large companies have been affected as well as a dozen smaller or medium-sized companies. Mr Kir, we do not yet have any information on the type of material damage that has been suffered, but discussions and coordination are continuing in this regard. Immediately, on the basis of the emergency plan which had been validated by the Government in the course of April, the operations were activated and the CWB (Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium) considered that this was, in the sense of the emergency plan, a national incident involving the immediate implementation of a number of coordinations with the specialized police services, also with the intelligence services. We are in contact with our foreign counterparts to try to coordinate both the initiation of preventive and reactive measures. Therefore, of course, communications were sent very quickly to a number of critical infrastructure managers in an attempt to consider the diagnosis and possible complementary measures to be taken in the light of this. Our impression is that this contingency plan has worked properly with regard to Belgium. However, I have asked CWB officials to debrief the government so that we can look more carefully at the points that have worked well and the points that, if any, need to be improved for the future because this is the first time this contingency plan has been activated. Finally, in substance, for the future, as you have all mentioned, and I share the call that is being made, we, like many other countries, must strengthen our capacity in terms of security, prevention and protection of our infrastructure - particularly credit infrastructure. It is a work that has started extremely strongly, intensely for many months now. We will continue to strengthen human resources and technology for the CWB and also for the CERC (Cellule d'évaluation du risque cyber). We will continue our coordination efforts with our international partners and we see that the CWB is very present at European level, mainly in an attempt to encourage exchanges of expertise. We will continue, as has already been done, the awareness-raising campaigns. A major awareness-raising campaign had been launched several months ago for SMEs, individuals and recommendations had been issued to SMEs and individuals. We're going to reissue this type of campaign, of course. We will implement the CWB's action plan. We are determined to speed up as much as possible, as this type of hybrid threat is taking shape and is likely to be repeated more and more regularly. This was one of the important items on the agenda at the last working meeting of the NATO summit in Brussels. I can confirm to you, Mr Dallemagne, that from the moment NATO considers that, among the new threats we face and react to, there is terrorism, but also the cyber threat, it goes without saying that the rules of solidarity within NATO must also apply to such threats. We will therefore continue to act very strongly on these issues, to try to strengthen our mechanisms to have rapid reaction forces. I have no doubt that we will have an opportunity to conduct in-depth discussions in the parliamentary committee on these matters, either with the CWB officials directly or with myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u13	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the national emergency plan has been mobilised for the first time. If I understand you correctly, this is a level 2 attack in the classification of three. Prime Minister, we are all living, I think, in concern that these levels of attack are the beginnings of a much more massive attack. We can no longer rule out this hypothesis. Our companies have become extremely dependent on digital technologies. Not only our businesses and our economy, but also our social and health services. Such an attack could have disastrous consequences for our countries. I count on you, it is true, to take the full measure of this threat, to develop, pursue, consolidate and accelerate the development of our protections. The perpetrators of these attacks must be prosecuted. At present, this is extremely complicated. In particular, the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) needs to be strengthened and services made available to businesses that can be operational 24 hours a day and 7 days a day. 7. This is one of the measures that you have envisaged for next year and I would really like it to be put in place as soon as possible, starting this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u14	Prime Minister, it is reassuring that the government is taking initiatives to protect our citizens and businesses. As we know, such attacks are likely to destabilize our economy. But I think they can also destabilise our democratic institutions. The British Parliament was recently the subject of a cyber attack. Mr President, I am speaking to you. This morning, a letter co-signed by our colleagues, Mr Ducarme, Mr Vermeulen and Mr Deseyn, was sent to you requesting that initiatives be taken to protect Parliament's IT infrastructure and to make colleagues aware of the good practices we need to implement in order to avoid such problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u15	Mr. Pivin, this message, which arrived at my house at noon, has already been transferred to the House. Necessary will be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u16	Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your answers. The National Emergency Plan has been implemented. Your first mention of the plan is positive. It worked and enabled our country to deal with this attack. You also stated that ten small businesses were also affected by this attack, in addition to the five large companies affected. It's not nothing. Strengthen capacity to protect infrastructure through a budget commitment for human and material resources. We make an appointment here. I will come back to the committee to ask you about the assessment of what has happened and how you are going to do it. However, I would like to draw your attention to one aspect. The mere citizen should not be the poor parent of IT protection policies. We will, together with my group, be attentive to the measures that will be put in place to ensure the protection of all in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u17	Mr President, Minister, I hope that we in this Chamber, across the borders of majority and opposition, agree that discrimination cannot and cannot be tolerated. We have a law that prohibits discrimination and also criminalizes it. One might therefore think that this has solved the problem. Unfortunately, reality shows a different truth. Discrimination against women, young people, low-skilled people, people with disabilities, the elderly and persons with a migration background is still a tough reality today, anno 2017. Several studies have shown that recently there was a study by the University of Ghent that people with a migration background are 30 % less likely to be invited to a conversation, let alone to be recruited. If this isn't part of losing talents, then I don't remember either. They'd rather hire Jan than Youssef. We know there is discrimination. We know it is a criminal offence and yet we are not doing anything about it, Minister. You said in this Chamber in March that you would issue a bill to carry out practical tests. These practical tests are an instrument for checking whether discrimination is being pursued. It is also an instrument that can ensure that there is evidence of discrimination. If people with a migration background are not invited to a conversation, they will not receive an email stating that they were not invited because of their skin colour or age. People are cunning enough to do that. However, we do know that this is the underlying reason why some people are not invited. You're in favour of practical tests. You announced in March that you would come forward with a bill. My question is therefore very simple, Minister. When will you come to the Chamber with your design?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Kitir, I take it that no one in this half-round has any doubt that the anti-discrimination laws adopted here must also be observed and enforced in practice. What you did not mention, but what I would like to add, is that the effectiveness of people with a migration background is not good in Belgium. We are highly praised by all the European and international institutions for what we are doing, but there are a number of points of improvement to say it carefully. One of these is the gap between the employment rate of non-EU nationals and EU nationals, which was 27.2 percentage points in our country in 2016. That is another increase compared to 2015. The European Commission's recommendations point out, and I quote: 'to ensure that the most disadvantaged groups, including those with a migration background, have equal opportunities for access to quality education, vocational training and the labour market'. That recommendation is very clear and I take it very seriously. We have taken a number of initiatives such as the reduction of labour costs. I'm not going to list everything. Specifically, on your question, I have drafted a bill concerning the practical tests or mystery calls. One word is a bit more sensitive than the other, but it comes down to the same thing. I delivered that to the NAR on 23 March 2017. I received the NAR's advice the day before yesterday. The NAR needs more time to look at this. The social partners have had time from March to today. Given the circumstances, I do not want to have to wait another long time for the social partners. I think this is an important element. Are we giving the social partners more time or are we taking action? Speaking of action, a lot is also said about data mining. Yesterday there was a meeting in my cabinet on this subject, with representatives from Unia, the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, the RSZ, the RVA, the experts from my own administration, the inspectors from the Monitoring of Social Laws and Welfare at Work, to see if this can also be a solution. We will take further steps to implement this concretely. I share your concern. I've taken action. The advice of the social partners is in. We will look at how we will deal with this in the next few days and weeks, but it is a serious problem that I am also taking a serious approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u19	Mr President, Minister, I am glad to hear you acknowledge the problem. The time for research and thinking about what to do is over. We know that there is an instrument to deal with this and you have tabled a proposal. You don't have to wait anymore. There's no reason to wait anymore. Take responsibility and we will support you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u20	Mr President, Minister, on 4 April last you presented your civil protection reform, which has since raised a great deal of concern in the sector – especially in Brussels, as you know. While the capital represents a large area at risk in terms of incidents involving chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive agents, the relief services are currently unable to respond, as was the case in Tokyo or Amsterdam. For example, the nearest civil defence barracks is in Liedekerke and currently has only five men on duty during the weekend. Although these difficulties are known, your reform will indeed condemn the capital, since you plan to remove four out of six barracks to keep only those of Brasschaat, which is your commune, and of Crisnea. The one from Liedekerke – which is closest to Brussels, as I said – is deleted. In other words, you are reducing the scope for intervention if an incident occurs in the capital. As has already been said in committee, this choice is absolutely incomprehensible. The time limit for intervention to the country's largest urban area – Brussels – will thus be extended to one and a half hours, even two or two and a half hours. It is too long to ensure the decontamination of the victims and their transfer to appropriate structures. In addition, you place the responsibility for relief on the SIAMU, whose teams are neither trained nor equipped to intervene when such incidents occur – all the less so in view of the persistence and diversification of terrorist attacks. As you know, this situation prompted the Brussels government to approve this morning a note from its minister-president to establish a dialogue with your cabinet to increase the resources of the units close to Brussels and even to install one in the Region in order to facilitate faster interventions. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you six very specific questions. How do you intend to respond to the request of the Brussels government? In the absence of a review of your plan to abolish the barracks, will you set up a decontamination zone in Brussels, as was done in Lille? When do you intend to put in place federal planning for emergency preparedness units? Do you not consider that the emergency services, which you think are supposed to operate on the front line, must, at a minimum, be equipped with the detectors and measuring devices available to civil protection? Why do you feel that decontamination of the population is a second line task, for which the time factor should not be taken into account? Finally, if an accident arrives in Brussels, where will the victims go, where will they be decontaminated, who will take care of them and when? In the absence of proximity airlocks, how will victims be safely transported?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u21	Mrs Caprasse, let me point out to you that your question was far too long!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u22	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u23	Mrs Caprasse, if I were to answer the questions you asked within two minutes, I could finish my speech now! [[Laughs]] [[.]] As you know, we have discussed this issue at length twice in the Committee on the Interior and we have responded with PowerPoint documents to each of your questions. But since Parliament is my boss, I will repeat the answers. What is the idea of this reform? In fact, we do not change the division of labour between relief zones and civil protection. All tasks of an urgent nature are the responsibility of the relief zones. This was already reflected in the royal decrees before the establishment of this government. We are going to make some adjustments. In this reform, we have not repositioned civil protection since the urgent tasks are transferred to the relief areas. This means that the tasks and responsibilities of civil protection are part of the second line, i.e. in support of emergency areas. We could have decided to abolish civil protection, but we have not done so and the specialists will remain in place in this department. We're going to look at the implications for the rescue areas. Are they all trained for this? Do they have the necessary equipment and skills? Civil protection will remain a service of proximity until we are reassured about the equipment and capacity of the rescue areas – for example that of Brussels, the SIAMU – to take over this front-line task, which is imposed on them by law and by a royal decree. That is the philosophy of this reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u24	Minister, it seems to me essential that you meet the members of the Brussels government. They're introducing a conflict of interest motion, which shows their concern about your civil protection restructuring. I don't think there would be a conflict of interest motion if they were reassured by your comments about the capability of civil defence to respond on the front line. It is urgent that you meet them again to avoid a major crash in both regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u25	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it must not always be gloomy and tormented. Sometimes there's good news. The good news this week was the presentation of the crime statistics for 2016, showing a decrease of 5%. We have also seen a reduction in crime rates in previous years. This is the lowest figure since the statistics are kept. What pleases me, and many citizens too, because this is sensitive, is that for certain crimes a better result is achieved than the national trend. I am thinking of home invasions: -17 %, vehicle thefts: -12 %, thefts and violence: -12 %. We must always pay tribute, but I believe that we should be satisfied and that everyone who has contributed to this should be allowed to make a contribution. However, there are still working points and challenges. Some phenomena are increasing, such as cybercrime and human trafficking. And there are still local differences where, unfortunately, the national trend is not followed. We must therefore not rest on our laurels, but continue to work and strive for even better figures. I come to my questions, Minister. This government has already taken a lot of security measures. Do you see in these good figures the confirmation that we are on the right track? There are, of course, many challenges. It can and must be done better. How will you handle this? What's on the line? Finally, many actors are working on security: police, justice, local authorities. The latter can also put a dime in the bag; they can help preventively. Where are you on administrative enforcement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u26	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, the crime figures were indeed a boost this year. We note 5% less crime. But there's a dual image in the statistics. On the one hand, the figures relating to the phenomena that have been happening for many years, such as house burglaries and car thefts, go down with a rarity. On the other hand, the figures are increasing in relation to new phenomena for which we are only creating capacity to better target them. And that makes sense, too. At the beginning of 2016 we started with the IRU, the Internet Referral Unit, which may also produce minutes for websites where hate preachers are active. Previously, that phenomenon did not exist, so it is logical that there should now be more records about it. There has also been the migration crisis. It is logical that in such cases human trafficking should be more targeted and, therefore, more pvvs should be drawn up on human trafficking. So it's a bit of a dual image. You're asking me what I'm gonna do. With regard to criminal offences such as home invasions, we are continuing the path we have taken. That means bets on more blue and on more technology on the street. I believe this is the right direction. For the other phenomena, the capacity deployed in 2016 will be further developed. I am sure that the figures will then fall. We are now getting a look at these phenomena and can therefore set up action plans. As regards strengthening the administrative approach, we have just started two pilot projects, one in Antwerp and one in Limburg, namely the RIECs, regional information and expertise centres, where we work with neighbouring countries Germany and the Netherlands to exchange information. Furthermore, Professor Brice De Ruyver has made an inventory of the administrative approach, i.e. what the possibilities are within the current legislative framework and what a new legislative framework should be provided for. We are going to work that out in the near future and submit it to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that the old phenomena have been mapped out and tackled, and that we see the results. It is even better that the new phenomena are now being mapped out so that we can also have a policy in this area. I am certainly looking forward to the results of the actions and policies. I am very pleased to hear that the administrative enforcement projects are finally starting, because I believe that every actor, every government, wants to work for better cooperation. I am therefore pleased that this is in the pipeline and I am almost certain that this will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u28	Minister, the last year in Antwerp, approximately every 48 hours, an incident of aggression against police officers took place. Last year it was 173 incidents, over the last three years 524 such incidents, with peak moments, indeed, following among others the Ramadan. Saying that this is only about young people targeting the police is a false analysis. There's a lot more to it, you know that. We are talking about drug dealers, we are talking about radical Muslims, who are the leader of those young criminals and vandals, who ultimately want to take over the neighborhood and banish any authority from the neighborhood. The police are the most obvious symbol of that. It is part of a form of hostile takeover of the areas concerned. In Borgerhout, Molenbeek and Vilvoorde, the strategy, the conditions, the mode operandi are more or less the same. People want to show who's boss in the neighborhood and that's why the police are being brutally attacked if necessary. Only cutting the branches of the tree makes no sense. Every now and then, at times of crisis, quickly announcing a measure or two, which are usually not even put into practice, will not help. I am thinking, for example, of the consultation with the prosecutors, which apparently did not take place. It stays with a round letter and reimbursement of some costs. It's gonna take more than that. A tough approach with burdensome circumstances and a doubling of the penalty if emergency services, police forces and public transport are vandalised and attacked is at issue here. Let us not regard it as isolated incidents, but rather as aware of what it really is about, namely the hostile take-over of power by drug dealers and Muslim radicals, who, incidentally, have been battling hands in those neighbourhoods for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u29	Minister, violence against aid workers and law enforcement officers is cowardly and unacceptable and needs to be tackled hard. Unfortunately, it is a phenomenon that has appeared too much in the news over the last few days. I'll give you a brief summary. On June 24, several police officers were injured after a massive fight in Liège. The same day, a man in Molenbeek tries to run into some police inspectors after he's stopped for a checkup. On 25 June, police and emergency services in Borgerhout will be pounded with eggs after they arrive for a traffic accident. Still on 25 June, a member of the bicycle brigade of the Antwerp police is thrown to the head at a check for a possible theft. On 26 June two police officers were attacked and injured when they intervened in an incident on the Sinksenfoor in Antwerp. One of those cops nibbles on the head and is disabled for several days. The phenomenon is not new. A survey of more than 5,000 police officers by the VSOA police union shows that half of them have already been victims of physical violence. Many people do not even report it anymore. Aid workers and law enforcement officers are primarily there to ensure our security, the safety of citizens. It is therefore unacceptable for them to be attacked. That's gotta stop. Apparently, there are also certain groups that want to create no-go zones, where their own laws apply. We cannot, never, never let that happen. The perpetrators of violence against the police must be punished quickly and effectively after being arrested. A lick-on-piece policy from the court therefore insists on this. It is also necessary to provide better protection for agents who are victims of violence. Often, after the violence, they continue to experience physical and psychological problems, which they themselves must bear, also financially. That is why I have a few questions, Ministers. What can we do to remove the mistrust that seems to exist among certain sections of the population against agents? What measures will you take to help agents who are being attacked better? Can you confirm that the agents in these situations may or may not have used their weapons correctly, such as pepper spray, mattress and firearm? Is there a firm policy of persecution against the perpetrators of violence, so that impunity would not lead to more violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u30	Mr President, first of all, let me join with the analysis: it is unacceptable in a rule of law that the street jangle should turn against the forces of order, against the policemen, who are working daily for our security. That is unacceptable! If we see that this is happening today in the streets, you have mentioned a number of concrete cases, it has to do with education, with education, with style and with unacceptable behaviour, which must be eradicated by root and branch. I am convinced that Minister None will explain immediately how this can be dealt with legally. What are we going through? Policemen become victims of aggressive behavior. What have I experienced? In that case, the persons concerned will not even be compensated financially. I shall therefore ensure that we also consult with the representatives of the police which, on top of accidents at work insurance, at least does not suffer any financial harm to the victims. That's what I'm committed to. Trust in the police is first and foremost a responsibility for those who distrust the police. The police are here to maintain order. However, we are taking initiatives in this area, including in Antwerp. There, a pilot project has been launched to allow diversity to flow to the police force. We must say that our police force is not a reflection of society in this area. However, this could be an element that can create confidence. We are doing our best to do this. Let me be very clear. We are not going to lower the standards for joining the police force. We do want to carry out a recruitment campaign aimed at greater diversity. We're willing to guide people. But we are certainly not going to lower the standards of accession for the police, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u31	Mr President, Mr Jambon, Mr Klaps and Mr Dewinter, during the previous legislature, the directive, which was to be followed by the public prosecutors, was revised. However, this is part of a wider circular. As you were told the day before yesterday during a broadcast of De Aangeling, in which Mr Houssin of the VSOA participated, there has been a long-standing consultation between the Minister of Justice, the police unions and the prosecutors in order to tighten up this directive and make it a separate directive for police officers. Until now, this consultation has not produced any results, despite friendly and polite pressure. I have written a letter to the public prosecutor asking for this directive to be issued as a matter of urgency. I have just been on the phone with the chairman of the LAGs, and this will be done. You must not forget, of course, that is a figure that Mr Houssin has revealed, which is already being prosecuted for 50% of the declarations. You will say that this is not enough. That is, of course, significantly more than other declarations. What we have asked for, Mr Dewinter, is that I can only quote the figures that are public, that I do nothing but give clarity and transparency, that we have zero tolerance in the case of declarations where a minimum of evidence can be found and therefore prosecuted. Finally, I would like to point out that violence against police officers is a serious criminal offence that was introduced in our Criminal Code in 2010. There is therefore a circular letter, only for police officers, which will come out very soon, which will lead to a quasi zero tolerance. We are going the same way for care workers and aid workers, because they too are in similar circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u32	Minister, the scenario is well known. There's an incident, there's a lot of media attention, there's some tough statements. It is unacceptable, the Minister says. Applause in the Chamber and in the salons of political correctness. It is the result of education, education and style, again applause. Unacceptable behavior, let's hear it again. Then comes the solution: diversity in the police forces. That's what Minister Jambon is proposing. Diversity in the police forces will solve it. We make the poachers forest rangers and it's all right. Let's be honest. That doesn't solve it. Let us at last make the right analysis, which makes the people living in those neighbourhoods and cities long ago. They want to take over these neighborhoods, if necessary by force. That is why the drug dealermafia, which is behind this, who are the sponsors and the inspirators, together with the radical Muslims and their organizations, who operate hand in hand with the drug mafia and who not only inspire these young people but also lead and organize them, must be dismantled. That means a tough approach, not just from those young people. We must not only take away their nationality and send them back, but above all we must tackle the drug mafia in borgerocco and elsewhere and reduce and dismantle radical Islam there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. First of all, I would like to give a compliment to the police services, because from all the data and images we have recently had some images spread................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the contrary, they remain very moderate and, first of all, always try to defuse the situation. Making money for that is absolutely a plume. I'm glad that damage from violence, if there is, will be compensated. I am of course also pleased with the approach of the Antwerp Corps. It is absolutely the intention, ladies and gentlemen, that our police force should reflect society. We don't want to turn poachers into forest rangers. We are not asking Mr Dewinter to become a police officer, quite the contrary. The colour, gender or religion of a cop should in no case be an excuse to commit violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u34	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, just two weeks ago I was asking you in plenary on the question of abolishing roaming charges in the countries of the European Union and the possibility for the customer to phone, send text messages and surf at a lower price remaining within the limits of subscriptions. One of my questions, which was fully answered, was to clarify the full scope of this measure. Together, we salute the positive impact on the bill of millions of consumers, not only for individuals but also for businesses, which saw their costs and roaming costs decrease. Two weeks after the termination of the billing of these additional fees and just before the departures on vacation, Proximus announces that it will modify its services as of August 1st. According to a press release, "In order to better meet the customer's expectations, Proximus adapts its subscriptions and packages on August 1st and increases the volume of mobile data included for both existing and new customers". The reverse of the medal, as stated in the press release, is "that the changes in the volume of mobile data included go hand in hand with a tariff adjustment" which can reach 7% in some cases. Today, given the schedule, how can we not link the removal of roaming charges to the rate increase proposed by Proximus? It is well known that the abolition of costs forced operators to sting on their profit margins, but what was good news at the time turns out to have a bitter taste for the consumer today. We were also able to read that you strongly advise consumers to compare prices and possibly change operators via "Easy switch". The procedure for the easy change of operator will be officially launched on 1 July, if I am not mistaken. In view of this situation, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, a price increase is never good for either consumers or businesses. How do you judge Proximus' attitude and behaviour, as the head minister of the company with a majority shareholder state? Are you aware of a possible rate increase also in the head of other operators? We talked about Voo who asked for derogations. Can you describe in concrete terms the easy switch procedure, what it involves, its impact on the consumer and its possible influence on prices?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u35	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, I will in fact present a Dutch version of what Mr Burton has just said. I'll start with a quote: "To better respond to customer expectations, Proximus will adjust its offer from 1 August and increase the included mobile data volume for both new and existing customers." This good news brought Proximus this week. However, one forgot to mention a small detail, in particular that prices will rise by as much as 7% in one movement. 7%! Much more than inflation. Everyone knows that telecom prices are already relatively high in this country. That is what the BIPT writes annually in its report. The question arises as to whether we are seeing a similar trend in other countries. Will mobile telephony prices rise if additional data volumes become available? The next question is whether the price increase Proximus wants to implement is in line with the price evolution in our neighbouring countries. Mr Minister, in your response, which was quite right, you said that consumers should not be allowed to suffer this price increase, and that they can send out a clear signal by changing operators. I come to my specific question. What measures will you take to ensure that consumers do not have to pay more for a decent mobile offer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u36	Mr President, in a free market, the power must of course lie with the consumer. A supplier can freely determine his commercial offer, but the consumer is of course free to decide for himself who he wants as a supplier. My policy of recent years has been to make the consumer as strong as possible. Hence my appeal to consumers to compare. Compare is very simple. This can be done via ratecomparisons as bestrate.be, but there are also others, for example those of Test-Achats. Especially important is to change supplier if you see a cheaper offer. Changing supplier is particularly easy on the mobile market. There's actually some kind of easy switch system already in place. For the fixed internet, for digital television and for fixed telephony, the change can now be done in the same simple way with Easy Switch from Monday 3 July 2017. I hope that the consumer will vote with his feet here and that he will make it clear to the operator that he will not simply accept the price increases of the past few months at Proximus but also at other operators. There has been an evolution in other countries, but perhaps also in our own. The amount of data used increases. There is a growing amount of data in the packages presented. In other countries, prices remain fairly stable and the amount of data increases. In Belgium, other operators are more likely to do so. The argument that more data and higher prices should be offered is not really true in other markets, nor in other operators in Belgium. Once again, the power must lie with the consumer. The consumer has everything in his hands to compare and to opt for a more advantageous offer. He can make the competition work in a very easy way. The free market is for consumers and lower prices, better services and more innovation. We have made all the means available to the consumer, but he must, of course, use them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u37	Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the clear answer you gave us. Our common ambition is, of course, the defence of the consumer. It must have easy access to digital technology, at the most advantageous price possible. We're on the same page. This stimulates competition and furthers the development of our country. I encourage you to continue your efforts, with the government, in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. By enabling a good price comparison and facilitating the exchange of operators, consumers are effectively given more power, the power of a genuine free market, which is a good and quality offer at a competitive price. Minister, it is clear that you are on the side of the consumer. You are not here for the telecom operators, but for the telecom users. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u39	Mr Minister, as we know, week after week, the DRC is sinking into a political but also a very worrying security crisis, a situation which, unfortunately, is strongly tending our diplomatic and military relations with this country partner of our development cooperation, a central country in this region which is a priority for our diplomacy. For more than 20 years, national and foreign armed groups have been spreading in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The first victims are, of course, civilians once again. Yesterday, the governor of the agitated province of North Kivu alerted the Congolese army to the multiplication of militia attacks which he considers to be the prelude to a new war in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions, Mr. Minister. Do your information confirm the risk of a new war in eastern Congo, in the words of Governor Julien Paluku? How do Belgian and European diplomacy follow this situation? What is the role of MONUSCO and Congolese forces in this context? What are the impacts on the humanitarian situation? Are new refugees on the roads of the Congo to be feared? Moreover, in this heavy context, how are diplomatic and military relations between our two countries evolving? What about the situation of our nationals on the spot? How many are involved? We know the "administrative" problems facing Belgian Defence and the "technical" problems of our C-130s. What are the consequences for possible repatriations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u40	Mr Crusnière, we have already had the opportunity to discuss the situation in the Congo and in particular in the East on several occasions in committee. I should like not to repeat exactly the words of the governor of North Kivu province, but to confirm that the situation is deteriorating and very strongly in security through the presence of armed groups, not only in Kivu, but also a number of increasingly criminal approaches, particularly in the major cities. To cite a few examples - but you know them, I am not going to take them all - there has been a series of important escapes, as you know, especially in the prison of Beni (930 prisoners), with therefore major incidents that have followed in the far north. In response, there were operations by the Congolese armed forces (FARDC) but also by MONUSCO. You asked for the role of this one. We would like it to participate more actively in operations against these armed groups, not just in observing the situation - observing the violations of the civil rights of a number of citizens. Most importantly, MONUSCO must prevent this situation and prevent such violence. Incidents occurred in Butembo in Lubero territory. I am also thinking of criminal actions such as kidnappings in large and growing cities. In this context, Kivu is not the only province we are concerned about; Kasai is concerned about its situation and we call for an independent international investigation that should progress. I'm going back telegraphically to your questions. It is clear that the situation of violence is worrying and has humanitarian consequences for local populations in several places. We are trying, together with the international community, to intervene in this regard. It is true that MONUSCO must play a more active role. The political situation has obviously deteriorated. The elections did not take place last year, and we strongly urge that elections be held this year - the EU has once again taken sanctions against a number of people - and that a timetable be clearly proposed with open access to the opposition so that the public space expands sufficiently. It is the agreements of the Saint-Sylvestre in December that should be respected. I regret the suspension of the military cooperation decided on the Congolese side. This is mainly harmful to FARDC and also to the Congolese population. I hope there will be a return to collaboration and in the coming days I will have a contact in this direction. You know, like me, that if we withdraw our military and equipment, we won't come back overnight. There is no Belgian citizen directly concerned at the moment, but we remain in direct contact with our fellow citizens, who, as you know, are very careful because they are used to this type of event. We are also, without going further, in contact with our partners for any action to be taken if the situation is to worsen. Contingency planning is organized.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, I am concerned about the situation in North Kivu, both in the short and in the long term. In the short term, I am thinking of the situation of civilians, taken hostage and once again in the midst of deadly clashes between harmful and uncontrollable militias. In the long run, it is the political situation in general that makes me fear the worst. I therefore invite you to continue taking initiatives. Let's not give up! Like you, I regretted the unilateral Congolese decision to suspend our military collaboration. In any case, for my group, the Great Lakes region and the fate of its people must be a priority for Belgian diplomacy. Our country is still being listened to and often heard in this part of the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u42	Minister of Finance, corporate tax reform is a bit the Arlesian of this government: we talk a lot about it, but we never see it. This gives him a somewhat ghostly aspect. Moreover, that is the reason why Mr. Van Rompuy yesterday invited the majority to change their method. He has advised you not to talk about it anymore, but to act and therefore to take decisions that can make this reform happen and thus initiate a more equitable taxation through the taxation of capital gains, or even the mobilization of savings. I won't follow his advice, since I'm still going to question you so we can talk about it. Indeed, the press itself has reported certain information, which gives rise to some confusion and reactions, including on the part of the Federation of Belgian Enterprises, to which I know you particularly attentive. For example, it is concerned about a kind of mini-agreement that would be limited to SMEs only. Minister, my questions are to take stock of the progress of the discussions. Do you confirm that the government's ambitions, especially yours, are being reduced? Indeed, you are abandoning a reform involving all companies to focus on some of them. Do you also confirm the abandonment of the capital gains tax project? So is it correct that you are moving towards an ultra-light agreement? If this agreement only concerns SMEs, do you not risk introducing a kind of dual system that would undermine the readability of this reform and further complicate the fiscal maquis of enterprises, at the expense of fairness? My third question seems to me all the more legitimate as we are going to vote for the budgetary adjustment. Do you always subscribe to a principle of budgetary neutrality? Or is the government considering an imbalance? If so, how large would it be? Finally, can you inform us about the calendar? Will this reform be announced in July? Can you tell us more about its implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u43	Mr Dispa, first of all let me make it clear that the article to which you refer consists of a list of assumptions not based on official information. Of course, there are reactions and uncertainties. I find this regrettable. Let us now put things in perspective so that we can stick more closely to the facts and the essence of this issue. My call for corporate tax reform goes back about two years. The nominal rate is too high. Tax regimes and measures that reduce tax pressure are unnecessarily complex and under international pressure, for some of them. Many SMEs, which do not have access to this tax engineering, are the biggest victims. Reform is therefore necessary, i.e. simplification, if possible within a neutral budgetary framework. The rate needs to be lowered and the system needs to be fair to our SMEs. I attach a great deal of value to this impetus for SMEs, but this does not mean that this reform should be confined to them only. A lower rate and more legal certainty in place of old bank systems are also important for large companies. This issue will be discussed within the government in the coming weeks. You've referred to Mr. M.'s call. Van Rompuy and I will therefore not vote until this discussion has taken place, in order to give him every chance of success. Nine days ago, the Swedish government announced a corporate tax reform, as several other countries have already done. What the Swedish government can, the Swedish coalition can, too!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u44	Minister, congratulations on this pun. I agree enough with you on your diagnosis of the need for reform. That is why the cdH group has, for the past two years now, tabled a bill aimed at achieving the objectives you have just mentioned. I also agree with you that the uncertainty is regrettable. I remember that in your government agreement, you said that there was a need to eliminate uncertainty about the business economic and fiscal environment. Unfortunately, I must note that we are far from it! The more time passes, the more uncertainty becomes. The scenarios that have been mentioned – even if you say that they are only supputations – still present the risk of introducing additional complexity, which is hardly reassuring today. Perhaps we should wait for Swedish inspiration to have a real impact on the Swedish majority. We'll wait until we see him to believe it. Until further information, we will remain in the fog and uncertainty that you yourself regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u45	Madam Secretary, we note that too many people are still delaying a doctor's visit for financial reasons. For this we have the third-payer system, which means that the doctor does not have to pay the whole amount, but only his own. This morning we learned that one in seven people who have a financial difficulty with the GP do not get the system he is entitled to. This is evident from the research of the mutualities. Still, part of the doctors apparently refuse that M.O. You have responded quite correctly by saying that they will be called upon to do so. However, what seems to me to be far more important is the observation that the doctors are more affected by this system by the people who are entitled to it. So it works. It's like we always said, the system works, it effectively lowers the threshold, it makes more people who are having a hard time going to the doctor. Madam Minister, we therefore believe that the time is right to introduce our proposal, a third-payer rule for all. This morning we could hear on the radio that the doctors are also more and more fond of the system. So that's actually good news. When will you introduce that general system, Madam Secretary? It has nothing but benefits. There is equal access for all, less administration and less red tape. Apart from the reorganisation at the beginning, the system costs nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u46	Madam Minister, the honourable Member has already referred to it, one in seven pays too much for a visit to the general practitioner today and does not receive the third-payer scheme he is actually entitled to. However, together we have written a government agreement in which we have made it very clear that we would introduce the third-payer scheme progressively. There were also technical reasons for doing so. We were supposed to start with the GPs in October 2015. It would then be evaluated to see if a further extension to the specialists, the physicists and the dentists was possible. Our colleague has already referred to it, and I have to say that today some 2 000 general practitioners do not apply it on a regular basis. 160 don't even apply it at all. The study also refers to the older male physician who is not computerized. I would like to refer to an interview you gave to Het Nieuwsblad in 2015. At that time, you made yourself quite angry and said: "Artsen are not above the law in front of me, with great respect for therapeutic freedom," which is also true, but it is not up to them to assess the patient's financial situation. I will therefore be very strict about whether this is being applied. You have further said: 'Look, no, even more, if there are complaints, I am going to deal with them effectively.' I see two years later that the figures say enough. A lot of general practitioners do not apply the third-payer system. I therefore ask you how you are going to take this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u47	Thank you, Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Muylle. I had requested an evaluation from the Inter-Mutualist Agency (IMA) myself. It is the figures of this evaluation that now make it clear that access to our health care has been improved by applying the third-payer system to general practitioners. You know that 1.9 million people enjoy increased compensation. In order to lower the threshold for a visit to the general practitioner, the third-payer scheme was introduced for them. Before the introduction of the measure in October 2015, it was mandatory: it was already in place in July 2015. The third-payer scheme was applied only in 60% of those consultations. That has risen to 86.5%. An increase of 26% is a good sign. It is also apparent from the first RIZIV expenditure figures which are not included in the report that the number of GP contacts, i.e. consultations and home visits together, increased by an average of 6% for people with an increased concession from October 2015 to 2016. For the consultations, the figure is even higher, at 13.8 %. That's a good sign. My conclusion from this is indeed that the compulsory third party payment scheme has achieved its target audience and its objective. However, the report also shows that not all doctors use the third-payer scheme enough. You quoted the figure 2 000. These are the doctors who do not use the scheme enough, but 162 doctors do not use the scheme at all 2.4 % of the total number of general practitioners with at least one consultation by a patient with an increased benefit. Their profile is known. It concerns the older, solo-working doctor, who is not computerized and is of the male type. When will this enlargement take place? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u48	That can be said, right, if it is? When will this enlargement take place? We will now discuss this in the government with that information in hand. What are the next targets? We can either broaden and apply the third-payer scheme to more people or we can apply the third-payer scheme to more care providers. As Mrs Muylle said, that also depends on the possibilities. Why have we introduced the scheme in stages? We did so because the mutualities were not ready for a complete introduction at that time. It has to be said as it is. The doctors who are hard learners, the whole group of 2 000, will receive a letter of formal notice from the RIZIV. It will be made clear to them that it is an obligation. They will also be followed. I want to give a ticket once, send a letter and be strict, but next time we will have to take measures. My general decision remains that the measure has the desired result in terms of improving access to health care, but we must not rest on our laurels, and we must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u49	Madam Secretary, I fully agree with you. It's a good sign. The system's working. I am a little disappointed that you have not yet indicated what the next step will be, but I am very pleased that you will address the doctors who deserve to be dealt with. We really think that now the sickness funds are ready and the administrative ICT system is ready, we should immediately go for a generalised introduction of the third-payer scheme. It doesn't cost anything, it's good for everyone and it provides equal access to the doctor for everyone. Tell me yourself, Madam Secretary, it is no longer of this time that you and I should go to the doctor, pay him, get a note from him and go to the health insurance fund to get those money back. I do not think we will be able to afford it for much longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u50	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It's good news that the system works. Except I'm a little disappointed with your approach. You say that 2 000 doctors are not doing enough today and 162 never do it. This means that day-to-day patients who are in financial difficulties with the general practitioner do not receive the scheme to which they are entitled. I ask you for a firm policy and hope that there will be a follow-up very soon after the letter from whom this does not apply or only a little bit. There is a need for further action. We continue with the implementation of eHealth and we are going to work more and more computerized. I think that transition periods and older doctors say that they should not participate in them anymore or that they should be delayed are not good decisions. I believe that there is sufficient knowledge to take them into the system as well. They must also participate from the start in the computerised systems. Madam Secretary, we ask you to take a firm approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u51	Mr President, Madam Minister, some chemicals are changing our hormonal function and therefore our metabolism. In addition, they cause cancer, sterility, diabetes, chronic diseases, as well as hyperactivity, autism, disturbed brain development every day. It is also apparent that these substances, called endocrine disruptors, act at very low doses, which does not correspond to the usual way of apprehending chemical substances. It is realized that these substances affect not only the person, child or fetus, but also three future generations. It is therefore said that they have a transgenerational effect. Minister, endocrine disruptors are present everywhere: in packaging, including food, in clothing, but also in cosmetics and baby wipes. They're really present everywhere. We would have wanted to discuss this with you this week, but the King brought the mayors together and, since many Members are also mayors, we were not in numbers in committee. Hence my question today in plenary, because we will not have an opportunity to talk about it until 4 July. On 4 July, the Member States of the European Union will be invited to position themselves on the European Commission's proposal to define what endocrine disruptors are and what the risk criteria are. Belgium has a generally critical position and has so far abstained in these votes regarding the proven or potential toxicity of vertebrates, etc. Madam Minister, what will be Belgium's position on 4 July? The European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) voted last week on one of the known endocrine disruptors, bisphenol A. According to ECHA, this substance is truly carcinogenic and toxic in all its uses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u52	Mrs Gerkens, you know our position on this. This position was adopted in consultation with Ministers Marghem and Borsus. Firstly, we are aiming at harmonisation at European level. In other words, we want to arrive at a European definition of endocrine disruptors. The most urgent is the disruptors used in pesticides and biocides which, as you said, will be on the agenda of next week's meeting. Secondly, we are defending a science-based policy to preserve public health and the environment. Mrs Dedry asked me a question about this in plenary in July 2016. At the time, it was not clear whether the definition took into account studies that showed endocrine disrupting effects only in animals. Please be aware that the text has since been considerably improved thanks to the joint work of the Member States. My services have done an excellent job on this point. Both proven and suspected endocrine disruptors – based on animal data – can be identified as endocrine disruptors for humans. As regards the environment, in addition to vertebrates, Belgium has also ensured that invertebrates are also protected. We are also following very closely the drafting of the guidance document, which will provide an interpretation of how the criteria should be implemented. This document is of paramount importance in terms of the level of evidence that will be required to identify an active substance as an endocrine disruptor. We plead for a realistic level of proof. The proposal put on the table has therefore moved in the right direction. However, improvements to the text are still possible. We will define our final position for voting on the basis of the diplomatic contacts we currently have with other Member States and the Commission. I can't tell you any more. We still have a small week to continue the work, but it is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you for showing that you do take sufficient criteria into account. Since you are still going to discuss it, I would like to insist that we take into account the risks that have been identified and known, as well as the potential and possible risks. I would not like to be based on beliefs that promote realism or the defence of economic interests in this area. Events, analyses, and subsequent studies show that if endocrine disruptors have an effect on invertebrates, it is evidence that has a negative and toxic effect that affects the person, his descendants and the descendants of his descendants. We are really facing a question of transgenerational public health. I hope that economic realism and scientific realism tending to minimize things will not prevail. I am counting on you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u54	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the point pension has been speeding up at the beginning of the week. There would be a note on the table by the social partners from the Academic Council and pension institutions and from the minister's questions. Once, you plead for, once you say that it is not necessary. I'd like you to be clear, we're not going to be there any more about your intentions! Today, you are putting pressure on the social partners with a deadline of less than 15 days to position themselves. This is completely unacceptable on this subject, which is not trivial. It is not commonplace when we know, firstly, all the reforms already carried out by you on the backs of pensioners and future pensioners; secondly, the level of our pensions, which is among the lowest in Europe; thirdly, the consequences of the introduction of this new system estimated at more than 50 million euros – more than the penitential budget. Indeed, this theme is not trivial when we know the risks associated with this system on the purchasing power of future pensioners whose pensions you want to freeze, and when we also know – it is the president of the Academic Council who says so – the need for global adherence to pension reforms. We're a long way from that, and as of tomorrow, a protest against the risks of your policy will still take place. Minister, is there a real need for this point system that is going to be expensive and endangers the purchasing power of future pensioners, which will cripple the administration during its implementation? Should we not invest in pension upgrading rather than in a new system? How are you going to create a climate of citizens' support for your reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u55	Minister, we have heard in the press that you have put the pension on the table again with points. It is said that this has been done under pressure from two large lobby groups. The first large lobby group is the VBO, the patronage, which really insists on introducing the pension with points, and the second large lobby group is Mr Frank Vandenbroucke's. But, Minister, do you still have a position on the pension with points? After all, when we questioned you a year ago, you said that it was no longer necessary, that it was too expensive and that thanks to your reforms there was no need for a pension with points. What exactly do you think? Do you want to apply it or not and with what timing? The next point concerns the substance of the matter. In the point pension system, our pensions will for the first time be calculated not only on the basis of what we have paid through our social contributions, but also on the basis of other parameters. It is not only our social contributions that will be taken into account to calculate our pension. You also introduce other parameters, such as finance, the state budget, such as life expectancy and wage developments. If you make mistakes in the state budget – as is currently the case, with 8 billion to be found, while savings have been made in the public service and pensions – then automatically pensioners will have to pay by receiving lower pensions. As for life expectancy, if it increases, you will link to it an automatic reduction of pensions on the value of the point for these pensions. Finally, if the average wage were to be frozen or reduced due to measures you would take, automatically the value of the pension point will decrease. You are telling us that with the point pension system, factors related to something other than the contribution that workers make, factors related to your policy will lead to a reduction in the amount of pensions. Minister, this is a scandal! Today, with the PTB's study service, we released our new comparison on the value of pensions. Pensions have a difference of up to 48%, for the same career, with neighbouring countries: 1 195 euros in Belgium for a person aged 63 with 40 years of career, and 1 300 in Germany, 1 679 in France and 1 771 in Luxembourg. We have the lowest pensions in Europe! Minister, do you or do you not intend to change the basic principle of our pensions, that we receive according to what we contribute, through a point pension system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u56	Mr President, Minister, pension reforms are continuing. This time, this is actually a point pension. As a reminder, Mr Daerden, the point pension has been the subject of a specific chapter of the government agreement, which states that "the government will draw up in close consultation with the social partners and the National Pension Committee a legal basis which will enter into force no later than 2030 for the introduction of a point system for calculating the pension, and the pension will be the correct reflection of the rights constituted". This means that a significant reduction in the pension amount is made impossible. The government clearly intends to do so. Mr Minister, at the beginning of this week you gave the social partners a guidance note on the issue of point pensions. I would point out that the social partners are represented on the National Pensions Committee. According to the information available to me, this note confirms that the first pillar must remain the central axis of pension policy while leaving room for a supplementary pension as the second pillar may be. Above all, this first pillar must further strengthen the link between career and pension amount. As you said, Minister, every euro contributed must be taken into account for the pension. This is an essential position for the MR Group. It is not only a question of social equity, but also a way of respecting the work of a life. Can you explain precisely the benefits of this reform for our fellow citizens? This reform must be able to integrate the recognition of the tenability of certain professions. Can you tell us where the social partners are in this discussion? What timing have you planned for this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u57	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have often said here in plenary that the government's pension reform is probably one of the most important reforms and at the same time one of the most underestimated reforms. With the increase in retirement age to 67 years, we have made our pension payable on a horizon of 10 to 15 years. That is an important step, but anyone who starts working today must receive a pension in 45 years' time. That is why we need a fundamental reform. You have now put on the table the proposal contained in the coalition agreement, which has not come under pressure from the VBO or others. It's a pension system with points. We, as parties, are, of course, very much in favour of this, even if only because the Pension Commission proposed it. In that Pension Commission, all the provisions were represented. For us, Minister, there are three important principles to which reform must respond. Firstly, it is necessary for the pension system to provide a higher pension for persons who have worked throughout their career. If we talk today about EUR 1 100, EUR 1 200 or EUR 1 300 per month, that is too little. We must ensure that more work also results in a higher pension. Secondly, the system must ensure that pensions are equal for all. We have three different systems today. It is inexplicable, ladies and gentlemen, for an employee or self-employed person to receive half of an official's pension. That can't be explained anymore. It will require remediation. As always, one will have to choose a middle way. Thirdly, it is also important for everyone in our country to have access to the supplementary pension, in addition to the statutory pension. These are the three principles that we, as a party, put forward for pension reform. We are, of course, looking forward to the work. We are now halfway 2017. You have submitted a note containing many questions to the social partners. The first question is when you will come to Parliament with the draft. The second question is when this reform should come into force. The coalition agreement says no later than 2030. If it depends on us, it will have to do so from 2025, because that system will keep our pension affordable and solidarity for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u58	Minister, after a long silence around the pension with points, it is again on the agenda. By the way, I didn't know the VBO was so behind the pension with points. I have always regarded the system as the flagship of the Pension Commission, which was set up during the previous legislature. We were charmed by this system, also in the context of the government negotiations, in the light of the principles on which it is based. After all, the pension with points guarantees solidarity between today's citizens, including intergenerational solidarity, between generations. At the same time, it will ensure greater clarity and transparency in relation to the pension to which they are entitled. Finally, no tabula rasa is created. The pension system for employees, for the self-employed and for civil servants cannot be shaken; it will be streamlined. There are differences in contributions, benefits and the way solidarity plays between the different systems. For example, contributions for employees are calculated at a maximum of EUR 60 000. Everything that the employee earns more doesn't give him or her any more retirement. There is no such ceiling for the contributions of the self-employed. There is also another calculation for officials. So we cannot just throw all that into one pile. Minister, what is important to us? There are proposals to introduce the pension with points by 2025 and in the meantime to announce a moratorium for the calculation. If that statement is maintained, it means that, even if we approve the principle today, its implementation is not yet in favour of immediate implementation. Things will take time. For something that takes time, a global agreement is needed, namely an agreement with the people today and an agreement with the people of tomorrow. This means that there is a need for very broad support, both from the social partners and from politicians and from the people on the streets. We agree with a system based on the principles of the contribution and career you indicate in your note. At the same time, the pension must also involve the necessary solidarity with, among other things, persons taking care leave or family care, and, as is the case today, it must provide for equal treatment. My question, Minister, is: how will you create a basis for the new pension system today and certainly at the time when it is being implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u59	Your question was a little too long, Mrs Becq.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday 26 June I presented my guidance note on point pensions to the National Pensions Committee. First of all, I wanted to make it clear that another note was also submitted to the National Pension Committee. It is a note drawn up by pension institutions, therefore by the administrations - INASTI, the SPF and the Academic Council. It's a common note. I had to encourage them to come together to present this common note which has finally arrived. It is clear from this common note that a point system can be set up from a technical point of view. Solutions are proposed, in particular to ensure the transition to this new system. The note even proposes to fix the entry into force on 1 January 2025, whereas the government agreement referred to the entry into office only in 2030. Since the economic feasibility is now confirmed by the administrations, it seems essential to start discussions between the social partners on the substance. This is the objective of the guidance note I have submitted. This note takes up the elements of reflection and the questions which aim to structure the debate on the transformation of our pension system into a point system. The point system is indeed not indispensable; you are right, Mr Daerden. A lot of parametric reforms can be carried out without a point pension system. It should not be believed that in countries where there is no point pension system, parametric reforms cannot be introduced. I have never said, personally, that the reform of the point system is not necessary. On the contrary, I have always supported this. It is also in the government agreement. But I have always said that we should not use the pretext that the point system was not established to prevent all the necessary reforms, but, of course, that they are compatible with the point system, which is what they are. Firstly, the point system is closely linked to the professional career provided - that is true - as well as to the income received. It will therefore make it possible to strengthen the insurability of our pension system. Each euro contributed must be taken into account for the pension. Greater convergence between pension systems will be ensured. We will indeed introduce common rules for the three systems and we will gradually reduce the differences in treatment. Thirdly, it will offer workers greater freedom in the development of their end-of-career. And this flexibility will be reinforced by the partial pension which is to be integrated into the point pension. Fourthly, adjustment mechanisms to take account of economic and demographic developments will be introduced into the pension system, which will ensure its sustainability and, precisely, guarantee the level of pensions. Your analysis, Mr. Hedebouw, is totally wrong! On the contrary, through the point pension system, we want to guarantee the level of pensions by adding, of course, a second pillar to the first pillar: everything that is somewhat responsible agrees with this view. Of course, like you, I've learned about the "study" of Prof. From Witte. Let me tell you that they make me smile. They are false, they do not take account of reality. They compare things that are not comparable and do not take into account the levels of taxation in different countries as they speak of gross amounts. They do not take account of the fact that in Belgium, for example, there is a holiday allowance for pensioners, which does not exist in most countries which are subject to comparison. These studies are obviously politically sponsored and one can, of course, always attach an academic label to them: this is good but it does not honor the university. I object to the assertions that this project would lead to the nullification of the investments already made in the context of the pension engine. This is completely wrong, but what is true is that additional IT investments will have to be made. This is the case when a new reform is launched: investments are needed to adapt IT tools, but it would be absurd to consider that a reform cannot be pursued on the grounds that it requires adjustments to the computer system. These additional investments will also extend over the long term, until 2025. At the end of the LWOP discussions, which are expected to continue until the end of the year, I will prepare texts to define the legal basis for the point pension scheme. The implementation and technical implementation of the new regime will have to be completed no later than one year before the new provisions come into force. In reply to Mrs Thoron's question, I can tell her that the reform must, in fact, include the recognition of certain occupations which will make it possible to grant additional points. Discussions are still under way on the subject. Mrs Becq's question on the cumulation of the part-time pension system and the existing retirement schemes is a good question. It was included in my orientation paper, by the way. Her question about taking into account the periods treated is also a good question. It's been examined by the Pension Reform Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u61	We must conclude, Minister. One last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u62	I attach great importance to social dialogue. You will understand that I cannot answer these questions myself, when I asked the social partners to debate them. The same applies to technical questions. Mr President, I conclude. Any change often leads to resistance among the Conservatives - I am well aware of that. It is true that the left in this country is quite allergic to reforms. We can see it all the time. Fortunately, in other countries, and you should sometimes take an example, Mr Daerden, the responsible left who joined Mr Macron in France has put the point pension project to his credit, like all modern countries! We cannot remain without pension reform. Once and for all, turn to the future, from time to time!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u63	Mr. Minister, I am not reassured by your comments. I fear more than ever that this reform will serve as an alibi for you to continue destroying the purchasing power of our pensioners and it is scandalous! Your reforms are only savings measures that you base on the concern you have created among pensioners; they do not deserve it. Minister, it is time to become the minister of all pensioners, to listen to the social partners, to carry out a fair and concerted reform. We are not allergic to reforms. But we are in contact with your drunken, imposed and unjust reforms that degrade the purchasing power of our pensioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u64	Mr President, so many studies show that private sector pensions in Belgium are the lowest in Europe and our Minister for Pensions is trying to refute them. It is amazing that you are not aware of the level of pensions in the private sector. The study shows that after taxation, there is a correction of 5 to 10% maximum. You make up your arguments to refute the studies. If you had both feet in reality, you would see poverty in our private sector pensioners. You're trying to hide a point from public opinion and I think everyone needs to understand it. After a year of work, how many points will we have? This will vary depending on the severity and different factors. The question that citizens are interested in is how much money they will get for each point. One point doesn't allow you to eat! We need euros! You say today that the economic level of our country will be an automatic variable to be able to determine the height of the pension. You are now transforming people's pensions into an automatic budget adjustment variable. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the ideological question proposed by this Liberal minister today. Well, yes! The left is proud to tell you that this reform has nothing to do with progress. Rather, it is taking a number of steps backwards and reducing pensioners to an adjustment variable, which is outrageous, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u65	Mr Minister, any reform involves explanations and pedagogy. Your answers go very clearly in this direction. It seems to me welcome that you are concerned about the transition because we know that any change is complex. A transition must therefore be followed. You also say that economic and sociological developments will be taken into account in order to ensure sustainability. It's also a good thing. The aim of this majority is the same since it aims to better respect the work while taking into account the various constraints encountered. Not all critics will hide this intention to give workers the opportunity to better value their work. We have to stop sharing false information. This government is working to raise the pensions of our citizens, while maintaining our social security system. The lowest pensions of employees were increased by EUR 89 and EUR 151 for the self-employed. For that alone, Minister, we can congratulate you. The MR group can only support you in your approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u66	You said, Minister, that you will continue to do so, that it must enter into force on 1 January 2025 and that it is the intention to converge the systems. There must be greater equality between the systems, taking into account, of course, the social contributions paid. However, Mrs Becq, it is inexplicable that an employee should receive half the pension of an official. No one's gonna explain that. We must therefore find a solution to this problem. It is also good that you present the proposal to the social partners, Minister. I am very curious about their attitude, because it will be important for them to find each other on this, for the trade unions to show that it is necessary to get a better but also an equal pension in our country and for employers to make a commitment to give everyone the opportunity for a supplementary pension. I hope they both cross the Rubicon, because clinging to the existing system means the death penalty for our pension system. My group therefore wishes you every success in your reform work. Keep up the good work, keep up the reform train.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u67	Mr Minister, it is indeed important that we also support the strengthening of the link between work and retirement. We are also in favour of access to supplementary pensions, but at the same time we say that if we go to the convergence of the various systems, we must also take everything with us. Employees and self-employed persons may have a supplementary pension, not civil servants. This too must be taken into account in comparisons. However, strengthening the link between work and retirement does not mean abandoning solidarity. We also want to take those who need care, those who are unemployed, those who are ill, and at the same time to strengthen those who are caring for others. If you want this system to be in place by 2025, you will have to provide a great deal of support, Mr Minister, in the Rue de la Loi across the parties, in the social dialogue, on all the floors and in the Dorpsstraat. That's an important assignment for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u68	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u69	The Conference of Presidents of 28 June 2017 instructs the Chamber of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Special Committee on "International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers" and of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to finalise the mandate of the Special Committee on "International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers" until 20 July 2017, as well as the mandate of the Permanent Experts of the Special Committee and of the Committee of Inquiry (Mrs Bourgeois and Delanote). The Conference of Presidents of 28 June 2017 proposes to the House of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers and the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to finalize the mission of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers until 20 July 2017 and to renew the mission of the permanent experts of the Special Commission and the Committee of Inquiry (MM. Bourgeois and Delanote). Are you sure you don't mind? (No) Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u70	By letter dated 1 June 2017, Mr Gérald Vande Walle announced that he would resign as a French-speaking member of the Standing Supervisory Committee of the intelligence and security services as from 31 December 2017, as he would like to claim his right to a retirement pension. By letter dated June 1, 2017, Mr.Gérald Vande Walle resigned as a Francophone member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services from December 31, 2017, when he wished to claim his pension rights. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 30 of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the coordination body for the threat analysis, the Member whose mandate expires before the expiry of the six-year period for the remainder of the term of office shall be replaced by his first alternate and, if he fails to do so, by his second alternate. In accordance with article 30, paragraph 3, of the Act of 18 July 1991 on the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and of the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, "the member whose term of office ends before the expiry of the six-year term shall be replaced, for the remainder of the term of office, by his first alternate and, if he resigns, by his second alternate." At the Senate plenary session of 2 May 2013, Mr Carmelo Zaiti was appointed first French-speaking alternate member and Mr Philippe Meire as second French-speaking alternate member. At the Senate plenary session on May 2, 2013, Mr.Carmelo Zaiti was appointed as the first French-speaking alternate member and Mr. Philippe Meire as the second French-speaking alternate member. Both Mr Carmelo Zaiti and Mr Philippe Meire informed, respectively, by e-mail of 13 June 2017 and 26 June 2017, that they had forsaken the mandate of an effective member. Mr. Carmelo Zaiti and Mr. Philippe Meire both indicated by e-mail of 13 June 2017 and 26 June 2017, respectively, that they were relinquishing their effective membership. In view of Article 6 of the Law of 6 January 2014 amending various laws as a result of the reform of the Senate, it is no longer the Senate but the Chamber that is competent to appoint the members of the Committee I. In view of section 6 of the Act of 6 January 2014 amending various laws following the reform of the Senate, it is no longer the Senate, but the House that is competent to appoint the members of Committee R. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new French-speaking effective member of the Committee I. The House must therefore appoint a new Francophone effective member of the R Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 June 2017, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of an effective French-speaking member of the Standing Supervisory Committee of the intelligence and security services. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 June 2017, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a call for candidates for the appointment of an effective French-speaking member of the Standing Committee for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u71	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 June 2017 and at the request of the author, I propose the proposal for a resolution (Mrs Stéphane Crusnière, Georges Dallemagne, Benoit Hellings and Olivier Maingain) on the targeted segregation of half-breeds descended from Belgian colonials and the dramatic consequences of that segregation, including forced adoptions, No. 2450/1, to be referred to the External Relations Commission. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 June 2017 and at the request of the author, I propose that you refer to the Committee on External Relations the motion for a resolution (MM. Stéphane Crusnière, Georges Dallemagne, Benoit Hellings and Olivier Maingain) concerning the targeted segregation against the Métis from Belgian colonization and its dramatic consequences, including forced adoptions, No. 2450/1. This proposal was previously sent to the Justice Commission. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on Justice. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u72	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 June 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Karin Jiroflée, Mrs Monica De Coninck, Mr Annick Lambrecht and Mr Karin Temmerman) on voluntary termination of pregnancy, No. 2571/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u73	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Leen Dierick and Mrs Griet Smaers) on research into the merging of market regulators, No. 2578/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Leen Dierick and Mr Hendrik Bogaert) on the vote within the Management Committee of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas, No. 2581/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u74	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Hendrik Bogaert and Mr Stefaan Vercamer) for a proportional employment of people with disabilities in the regular labour market, No. 2579/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u75	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Hendrik Bogaert) amending the law of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals with a view to automatically suspending the operation of an appeal on the substance of an application for medical regularity, No. 2580/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u76	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 June 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms. Karin Jiroflée, Monica De Coninck, Annick Lambrecht and Karin Temmerman) on voluntary termination of pregnancy, No. 2571/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u77	- the motion for a resolution (Ms. Len Dierick en Griet Smaers) to examine the possibility of merging market regulators, No 2578/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms. Len Dierick and Mr Hendrik Bogaert) concerning the vote in the Steering Committee of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission, No. 2581/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u78	- the motion for a resolution (Ms Nahima Lanjri and MM. Hendrik Bogaert and Stefaan Vercamer) on the proportional employment of persons with disabilities in the regular labour market, No 2579/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u79	- the proposal for a law (Ms. Nahima Lanjri and Mr. Hendrik Bogaert) amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens with a view to giving automatic suspensive effect to the appeal on the merits in the event of application for medical regulation, No. 2580/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u80	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u81	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society on 21 June 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and Social Renewal of 21 June 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 225/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 225/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for a recommendation to revise a royal order and a circular. The objective is to modify the procedure for authorization of reimbursement for cochlear implants or middle ear. This is important because it represents very high amounts, from 10 000 to 25 000 euro coins. In the absence of a guarantee of tariff security and pre-implantation refund authorization, families, children, patients may be denied refund authorization after the implant has been placed. In view of the costs involved, it is truly trapous. I therefore invite the Minister to amend this refund procedure. This will not only be good management, but it will help to avoid real financial difficulties, given the costs involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u83	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u84	Yes 76 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u85	Mr President, as in previous weeks, I have been pairing with Mrs. Nawal Ben Hamou. (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem, like his group, voted)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u86	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 77 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2410/3) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2410/3) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u87	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 77 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2411/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2411/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u88	Vote on Amendment No 172 of Özlem Özen to Article 313. (2259/13) Vote on Amendment No 172 by Özlem Özen to Article 313. (2259/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[40]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 313 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 313 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u89	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 77 Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2259/14) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2259/14) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u90	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u91	Mr President, let me first say that we support the objective of this legislative proposal, in particular to give greater opportunities for mediation in tax matters. We're a little concerned about reports we're getting from the BBI. That is where people are concerned because fraud investigations must be stopped when mediation is requested. We don't want that. We will look at how this bill, when it becomes law, will be used or abused in practice. That is why we will abstain from voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u92	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 88 Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (607/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (607/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u93	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1110/9) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1110/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u94	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Beware of Article 5. (2479/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Not to Article 5. (2479/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 4 Yes No. 131 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Barbara Beware of Article 5. (2479/6) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Barbara Not to Article 5. (2479/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u95	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Barbara Only to omit Article 11. (2479/6) Vote on amendment No. 7 by Barbara Not tending to delete article 11. (2479/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u96	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u97	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in committee, we naturally support the objective of this draft law, but we have problems with the distribution key that is being applied and with which the staff of the federal scientific institutions are allocated to the Flemish and French-speaking universities. One works here with a distribution key of 56 % and 44 % respectively. The only brief explanation we have received for this is that this is a historical key. The Community's past distortion is simply being continued. The second statement was that this would not be changed because of the Community's standstill. Ladies and gentlemen, nobody expects me to refer to the N-VA's electoral programme on the federal scientific institutions - the powers that would go to the Länder. In my view, the application of existing legislation to respect language frameworks is not covered by the Community's standstill. Applying an unbalanced distribution system, which only increases the already large distortions, is not covered by a Community standstill either. In the last two years, the situation under Secretary of State Sleurs and her successor has only got worse. With my amendments, I wanted to correct the situation. You have just voted almost all of that away. For this reason, unfortunately, we cannot support the draft law before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u99	Mr President, like Mrs Pas, I note that there is a 56-44 distribution key. This is not in line with the number of Dutch speakers and the number of French speakers in Belgium. I also note that the competent Secretary of State, Mrs Demir, states that there are already more French speakers in these institutions and that we, Flemings, should therefore be satisfied with that. However, I find that extremely regrettable. Flemings should be satisfied with something else, namely 60-40 and not 56-44. That is why my group will be voting against the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u100	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 127 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2479/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2479/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mr Laaouej voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-29-54-plenair-ip177x.u101	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 6 July 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, July 6, 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 6 July 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 6 July 2017, at 2.15 p.m.
