ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u1	Minister, I give you the floor for your introduction, in which you will explain the position of women and women's rights in your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u2	Mr President, as agreed with you, I am, of course, always prepared to talk about my policy and my part of our foreign policy. First of all, I would like to say something about the Commission on the Status of Women. As you know, this is an important UN Commission to promote equality between men and women and to empower women. The committee was founded in 1946. It is supported by UN Women-United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, which was founded in 2010. Every year the CSW works on a particular theme. Dit jaar is het thema the economic empowerment of women in a changing world of work. Volgend jaar is het challenges and opportunities in achieving gender equality and empowerment of rural women and girls. These topics are fully consistent with my international development policy priorities. Already in 2016, I adopted the strategic note and the Gender Action Plan in Belgian Development Cooperation. These are useful tools to realize the attention paid to women's rights. In my 2017 policy note, I identified women's rights as a specific concern. In 2017, Belgium will launch its third National Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1325. The international conference "She decides", which I organised in Brussels on 2 March, and the recent mission I carried out in this context to Benin and Senegal, give concrete expression to this priority of my policy. I am also making sure, in the new programmes with the eight partners, that there is always a section that places the rights of women and girls at the forefront. I believe that today Belgium plays a very pioneering role in equality and the opportunity given to women and girls. I strongly condemn the way women are treated in Saudi Arabia. I have always done so, on any occasion, but shouting shame and condemning it is not enough. That's always been my line. Calling and judging shame is easy. Words are very cheap in that area. I think we should do more. We must try to improve the situation on the ground by means of initiatives such as 'She Decides'. Words don't always change a situation on the ground. Now that Saudi Arabia is a member of the CSW, we must make every effort to improve the fate of Saudi women through confrontation and tough negotiations. I therefore welcome the fact that organisations such as Amnesty International and specialists such as Marc Bossuyt, former President of the Constitutional Court and emeritus professor Volkenrecht, Eva Brems, Professor of Human Rights at Ghent University and former Member of Parliament of the Greens and Navi Pillay, former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, share the belief in this approach to confrontation. Now that Saudi Arabia is in the CSW, the assignment is to exhibit them to the world. The CSW's mission is to come to an unprecedented conclusion on these annual themes. This is done on the basis of a subject drawn up by the UN Women. These draft conclusions are then negotiated very hard for weeks. Belgium traditionally takes the most progressive position on women's rights, together with the like-minded countries. Saudi Arabia traditionally occupies the most reactionary positions, with countries like Iran. Sometimes these discussions lead to a consensus text, sometimes they do not. This does not lead to dramatic changes. Let's be realistic! But the United Nations is based on the principle that countries that do not agree must still debate. The fact that Saudi Arabia is part of the CSW gives us an opportunity to discuss difficult issues with Saudi Arabia. That said, let us not be naive! At the head of this CSW is a bureau of five Member States which are trying, as facilitators, to reach a consensus on the text. We must, of course, ensure that a country such as Saudi Arabia cannot sit there, because it could paralyse that process. This year, the five countries in this office are Brazil, Egypt, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Japan and Germany. As far as the direction of the diplomatic corps is concerned, and in particular the sending of instructions to the Permanent Representation in New York on the composition of the various UN committees, I refer to the counter-words given by my colleague Mr Reynders and Prime Minister Michel in the plenary and in the chamber committees, and I fully agree with them. This is entirely the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I'm not being consulted on this and I'm not getting involved. That was not the case for this instruction either. My cabinet did receive a copy of the mail traffic between the permanent representation in New York and the FPS Foreign Affairs, as is the case for hundreds of messages every day. They were e-mails in which as many as twenty recipients in cc. Stand. I was not consulted on the decision on the vote, as it does not belong to my area of competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u3	Thank you, Minister. I shall now give the floor to those Members who wish to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I can actually be very brief today, because you yourself have said most of what I had in mind to say. That is a good thing, because it is always my aim not to prolong the debate unnecessarily. For the N-VA Group, the event about the vote in ECOSOC is a closed story. We have already come back to that sufficiently, both in the plenary and in the committee, with Minister Reynders. So we really do not need to come back to that today. Agreed, your cabinet was in copy with the recipients of the mail, but well, for us that has actually, in fact, just been a notification to your cabinet. We are therefore convinced that this was not a consultation. What interests us a little more is your pronunciations. You said, among other things, that you would press Saudi Arabia with your nose on the facts. We find that very interesting in itself. With N-VA we follow you to some extent. After all, we are also convinced that there is very little incentive for the country to ever leave the positions if Saudi Arabia were to be completely isolated. It is therefore probably better to continue to involve Saudi Arabia in the debate. The place as a member of the CSW may not be entirely appropriate, but Saudi Arabia has been a member for three years now, so we should make the best of it and ensure that there is an effective improvement in the situation of women in Saudi Arabia. The position you take is shared by Amnesty International and, for example, by Mrs Elva Brems, Member of the Green Group. Minister, we would like to ask you exactly how you are going to push Saudi Arabia with the nose on the facts and what means you can use to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to go back to what we discussed last week, namely the circumstances of these events. On the other hand, what I would still be interested in asking you is whether or not, at some point, your cabinet was made aware of the vote that was to be taken at the United Nations. How do you explain the differences in versions that we heard between the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the one hand and the Prime Minister on the other? These differences in versions remain, for me, questions. I can understand that at some point, mistakes may have been made, but why in a somewhat deliberate way have we sought to drown the fish and hide the truth in parliament? I still have a lot of questions about that. Today, the important thing is that new procedures may make it possible to ensure that in the future this kind of error does not happen again, but, as much in the discussion with Minister Reynders as in the introductory statement you have just made to us, I do not yet understand very clearly what the procedure will be, in the future, in practice. How is it going to happen if tomorrow, again, a vote like this has to take place? Can you tell me very concretely what will happen? Who will be notified? Who should intervene? What's the point? The other element that has also been discussed with Minister Reynders and on which, at this stage, it is not yet clear, is that the case of Saudi Arabia is one of many. At some point, there will still have to be objective criteria to enable us to take a position in a procedure. This will therefore be a procedure, that is to say something that will be a little standardized. What types of criteria will be established? How will the procedure be implemented? Indeed, a decision should not be taken because a fact is under the fire of current events and an adversarial decision is taken on another occasion. Concrete criteria are needed. And I do not yet see very clearly what the criteria were set by the government last week. My last question is with my colleague, Mrs An Capoen. You are Minister of Development Cooperation. The issue of human rights is one of the priorities of our cooperation. Saudi Arabia is not a partner country of Belgian Development Cooperation. Are there any human rights structures on which we can build in our relations with Saudi Arabia? How can our Development Cooperation support these structures in order to address today's problem? These are not only political responses, but also concrete and structural responses allowing for real and rapid changes on the ground. In this context, of course, as Minister for Development Cooperation, you would have a direct and immediate power of influence. These are the questions I wanted to put to you, first of all, on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u6	Mr. President, Minister, you began your speech by recalling all the initiatives, priorities and projects that you support in the defence of women's rights. It was very interesting to listen to you but it was not necessary. At no time could we have doubted your commitment to the defence of women's rights, especially given the ministerial responsibilities that are yours and that are necessarily linked to this fight for women's rights on the different continents where we have worked cooperatively. I wanted to tell him before the committee. You have referred to the functioning of the Commission of which Saudi Arabia is now a member; you have explained that it is working on themes and that, from the moment these themes are posed, all its members must speak, "play cards on the table", as you have said. Could you go a little further in explaining how it works, giving examples of themes on which Saudi Arabia will have to play "table cards"? In terms of defending women's rights, given your ministerial experience, do you think there are any priority areas? If so, which ones? Perhaps there are no small battles in the field of women's rights and all fighting is a priority and important one. But, in your opinion, who can give the best results? Do we have to work on women's economic rights, on their civil rights, on medical benefits, what do I still know? Should we work from outside, with treaties and recommendations of the Human Rights Council? What do you think is the most bearer in these fights? I would also like to address the issues of Niger and Mali. Do you, your services or your representatives see an influence of Islamism in these countries, especially on the fate of women in a concrete way? Is there a serious deterioration in women's rights? To say so with a more medical image, are there metastases of this cancer that affects this entire region of the world, namely a violent Islamism and turned against women's rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u7	Mr Minister, because of the international nature of "She Decides" you went to West Africa. In Senegal and Benin, you proposed programmes to combat violence against women and child marriages. As someone who has been committed to women's rights for many years and in particular young women's rights, I think that is a positive initiative of yours. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that another minister, directly or indirectly, has cast a shadow on that. We have had the discussion, even this morning. What I really don't understand is that you and Minister Reynders, yet representatives of the same government, are not better aligned. Why is there bad communication between your cabinets on human rights and women's rights? How can Belgium conduct a coherent policy if the policies of the various ministers are not coordinated, both in words and in deeds? Minister, I do not know whether you have received reactions from the people there or the en-tourage around you about what was happening on the other side of the world at the time. That is a bit confusing, because on the one hand there is a minister coming to talk about the importance of women's and girls' rights, and on the other hand the country of that minister himself is voting for Saudi Arabia's candidacy in the UN Women's Council. Minister, you are one of the main faces of Belgian foreign policy. You also save neither time nor effort to profile Belgium as a country that stands up for human rights in words and deeds, especially women's. That is also what you promised in your policy paper. I wonder how serious our partner countries can still take Belgium's commitment to women's rights. How serious can we be? I would like to ask another question. You have been there very specifically for women's rights and for a very specific project on women's rights, the "She decides" project. Your initiative relates to our commitment to women's rights in our partner countries. Women's rights are difficult in many of our partner countries. Belgium must make this a priority issue, especially now, because it is internationally known that Belgium has voted yes for Saudi Arabia. You have just explained where this can turn positive. However, it is also the image that counts in the first discussion that is being held. How great is our credibility if we go to the countries concerned and defend women's rights? How will we try to give that image a positive turn? Are we still credible, especially in our partner countries, let alone in other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u8	Mr President, Minister, since you are in charge of cooperation, you are morally responsible for the implementation of the law on policy coherence in favour of development aid. It is a law that was passed in the last Parliament and is intended to ensure that everything that the federal government commits as a political act, in all matters, starting with what is a matter of diplomacy, is compatible with development objectives. It is indisputable that gender equality, which you also defend in a brilliant way – I would remind you that you are among the initiators of "She decides" – must be consistent with the actions taken at the UN or in any multilateral or bilateral forum in which Belgium is called upon to sit. The vote here, following the injunction of the office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs – you admitted being a copy of this injunction – was not an unfortunate vote that Belgium regretted, contrary to what the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and you yourself said. It was a conscious decision taken by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, through his collaborator. I hear what you're saying about the legal arguments. The fact that Saudi Arabia is a member of the Consultative Commission will not prevent it from functioning. All right! But you cannot regret a decision when it has knowingly been taken by the government, which is notoriously in contradiction with the speeches made both in multilateral fora (in the UN, in the European Union or in other caucuses) and, directly, with Saudi officials, as the Foreign Minister reminded us this morning. The inconsistency is very clear. Let us take advantage of this diplomatic coumac to flatten and check whether all our policies are consistent, in our relations with Saudi Arabia, as in other areas. Your initiative to promote women's rights through the She decides campaign is in the right direction. Now, the actions must correspond to the words. This is clearly not what has happened, without questioning your goodwill in this regard. For our part, we will be partners with the government as soon as it comes to aligning words and deeds. I hope that the alarm bell drawn ten days ago will serve to improve the coherence of all our international, diplomatic, development and economic policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u9	If no one wants to intervene anymore, I will give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u10	Mr President, I would like to begin by responding to Mrs Pehliv's speech on our credibility on the ground. Let me explain our credibility on the ground. Our credibility on the ground is that every year we help thousands of women and girls in action and not words, not with a political game that is now being heated up for the second time, which actually makes sense. Our credibility is that, in the most difficult circumstances, we talk about particularly difficult issues, not like-minded people. A discussion about women's rights with the Netherlands, Scandinavia and Canada is very cozy but it does not achieve anything. Having a conversation on the ground, in Senegal or in Benin, where people talk to local religious leaders about women's circumcision, about child marriages, about discrimination against girls, about girls being kidnapped sometimes, being taken away from their parents, that is our credibility on the ground. And our credibility on the ground is, frankly, that during the talks we had there, it was not a millisecond about the discussion that took place here. If one were to explain in Benin or Senegal what discussions are taking place here, one would say: we are going to look at your actions and not lose ourselves in such discussions. Let us look at our actions in thirteen countries of sub-Saharan Africa. Our country chooses to be active in the most difficult countries in the world, while other partner countries, similar to Belgium, choose not to be active there anymore. In this respect, we have few lessons to learn. And in those countries we know that we are on their side, that we are trying to enter into discussions with them without saying at critical moments that it is too difficult and that we are leaving. I think that is the way in which results are recorded on the spot. It is achieved by being active on the ground and not by trying to initiate a discussion that remains a discussion. A discussion that remains a discussion may be intellectually interesting, but even intellectually there are people like Marc Bossuyt, Eva Brems and Navi Pillay and organizations such as Amnesty International who assume that if they are in it, they must engage in the debate with them. So, frankly, I wonder what this discussion is about. I shall now turn specifically to the additional questions. Mrs Capoen, you asked how that would be done within the CSW. How does that even work? UN Women is drawing up a basic text, and the Bureau is already talking about the five countries from which it is composed. Then there will be discussions between all countries that are members of the committee. These are very long discussions during which all countries express their views. As I said, Belgium is on one side, whereas countries like Saudi Arabia and Iran are on the other. One tries to reach a consensus, but very often it does not succeed because the opinions are too different. If one does come to a consensus, it is because one has got countries such as Saudi Arabia, Iran and others moving in the direction of what is generally acceptable. Mrs Grovonius, I was actually included in the recipients who received this e-mail as a copy. As Mr Reynders has explained very well, this falls within his competence, and we were informed, as were several diplomatic posts. You have already asked Mr Reynders your other questions, and Mr Reynders has already answered them. I do not think that the purpose of this committee is for me to become a clone of Mr Reynders. As the competent minister, he explained very well the facts, and the method that will be used. We will apply it. Other structures could exist to ensure respect for human rights and equality between men and women. As you know, many United Nations conventions exist, as well as structures like UN Women. We work a lot with this structure. What is the reason why we are working with multilateral structures? These naturally have a much wider focus. We, in Belgian development, focus on fourteen partner countries, but working with UN Women gives us a broader scope. Mr Miller, thank you for your appreciation of our efforts. As I explained earlier, we are working in this committee with a basic UN Women text, followed by a debate in which everyone is obliged to speak. Sometimes we reach consensus, sometimes not. When there is consensus, that means that Saudi Arabia and Iran have moved clearly. What are the levers that fall within my competence to improve the lives of girls and women? We see three. The first is access to education, which is a priority for us. Next comes access to the labour market: women with their own income are more independent and find themselves less easily in a situation of dependency or vulnerability. Finally, reproductive and sexual rights come. The aim is to ensure that women have access to these rights. Finally, there are all the other UN conventions that we know well. Mr Hellings, as I said earlier, our firm has indeed been informed, but nothing more. We fund large amounts of money for an organization like UNFPA. Our funding of $7 million has increased to $9 million. The organization is fully focused on equality between men and girls and women. As I said earlier, I think this is an area in which we are very active and where our efforts are very much appreciated. Honestly, I think that the appreciation that we enjoy at the global level has not changed from an iota. Belgium is known as a forerunner in the field, because of what we do in our country, because of the priorities we defend in the world, because of our actions in the United Nations system. I believe that the respect and reputation we enjoy in this area has not moved by a millimetre.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u11	We did not start the political game, Minister. I am not one of those who wants to react against the majority from the opposition either. My reaction stems from concern for the women themselves. First of all, if a political game is being played, I can see it in your own party. There have also been voices that have opposed the vote, which they have rejected. Secondly, leading people now argue that it is a good thing that Saudi Arabia has a seat in that council and that it is a good thing to start dialogue with it. We have no choice, Minister. I sincerely hope that it will be a step forward and that the discussions will have a positive impact. Minister, my group and myself, as a woman, as a Member of Parliament, as responsible, fully support the policy on women's rights and human rights, especially in the partner countries. That's what I said. I therefore regret what has happened, when you, as Minister for Development Cooperation, are the face of the defence of women's rights in countries where women are very weak. They need talks, they need the actions you have just listed. We support that, too. But we regret that there are now other votes. That is the concern I wanted to express.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I would just like to point out that last week, whoever shouted murder and fire demanded that the mi-nister come to the committee today, either did not bother to come here or simply did not sit around and hear and replicate the answer. In the meantime, the issue has mortgaged our a-genda for two weeks, including the one this morning, with which we have not touched anywhere. I hope that we will be able to deal with this differently in the coming weeks, because I really think it is too much of the good.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u13	I would like to say that Mr Hellings has come to tell me that he was called away for a question in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u14	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his response. I stress the fact that I do not, of course, call into question the actions that are being carried out, in particular multilaterally or through UN organisations or "She decides". I have no doubt that the issue of women or girls is on the agenda. Nevertheless, I have asked very specific questions and I regret, Minister, that you referred to the answer already given by Mr Reynders. As far as the procedure is concerned, I still do not understand, at this stage, how things will go. If tomorrow a similar vote should be on the agenda, what position will be adopted, who will be informed, who will be expected to react, etc.- Is that what you're saying? I would have appreciated it, minister, if you would have explained to me how you personally considered things? When will you be expected to intervene? On what files? To say what? I see you're sending the bullet back to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Perhaps you are acting in this way because, for you, the way things will be implemented is not yet very clear. If that is the case, I regret it because it should not be too late to agree on a clear procedure for everyone, including for you, in order to avoid that in the future we find ourselves in a situation such as that we have known, where everyone was informed, but where no one has taken on their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, as has been said in previous proceedings, we also did not welcome this procedural problem. But I am not going to reopen the debate here. I would just like to point out that – that is also why I, unlike others, wanted to be present and to hear from you, Minister – I am pleased to have heard you say that, given the experience and concrete work that is being done with associations, etc., you are sure that the position, the image of our country in terms of defending women's rights has not receded as a result of this unfortunate incident that we deplored.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u16	As no one is asking to speak, I shall close the debate on the first point. Mr Blanchard has left his question No. 15985.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u17	Mrs. Els Van Hoof is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u18	Mr President, Minister, the subject was topical before the recent events. On 2 March, in Brussels, the International Donor Conference She Decides was held, an event organized by several European countries in response to Donald Trump's decision to stop funding organizations defending access to abortion. The conference on 2 March launched a fund-raising campaign to finance these NGOs. Belgium has promised to allocate EUR 10 million. It is also known that the expenditure on reproductive health in Belgium fell by 13% between 2014 and 2015, while the new programmes of Belgian NGOs active in this field have undergone significant budget cuts. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Can you provide us with your overall approach to this issue? When will the funds pledged by our country following this conference be released and, more broadly, what is your department's budget for sexual and reproductive rights in 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u19	Mr President, my answer will be in both Dutch and French, as Mrs Van Hoof has tabled a similar question. The She Decides conference on 2 March has yielded 181 million euros. Thirteen countries contributed to this initiative. Afterwards, several individual and anonymous donations followed and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation contributed 19 million euros. In order to allow faster use of the funds, it was agreed that each donor country should decide on the use of its own funds. In that sense, at the end of April 2017 I have a shipment of under-noms to Benin and Senegal. In Benin, I signed a cooperation program with UNFPA. The aim of this programme is to inform and combat sexual violence against young girls through an e-learning platform that is accessible on mobile phones. Our country is releasing an amount of EUR 1.5 million for this purpose. The deposit of the first financing strand will be carried out in the coming months. The overall approach is twofold: first, to maintain the terms of sexual and reproductive health and rights on the international agenda; and second, to support multilateral organizations and international NGOs. Indeed, the funds provided under the She Decisions are specifically targeted at the institutions affected by the decisions of the US administration. They are therefore not, in principle, addressed to Belgian organisations, which are not affected by American decisions. I wanted to diversify the allocation of funds under She Decisions. In addition to the million and a half mentioned, I would like to see an increase in our contribution to the general resources of UNFPA, which will receive 9 million euros in the period 2017-2020 instead of the 7 million originally planned. This means that we will be engaged for four years. There will also be a €2 million contribution to UNFPA Supplies, a thematic fund that facilitates access to family planning, including quality contraceptives. There will still be a €4 million contribution to the International Planned Parenthood Federation, which will partially offset the losses incurred as a result of the US decision. The balance of EUR 500 000 will allow us to respond flexibly to specific projects that we consider appropriate. Of course, Belgian development policy has not waited for the She Decides initiative to carry out interventions on sexual and reproductive health and rights. For example, there is the financing of EUR 1 250 000 from the UNFPA programme on the fight against fistulas and the promotion of maternal health in Burundi. That project ends this year. Furthermore, a new project will start in Mali this year. This is a joint initiative of UNFPA and UNICEF on the fight against women's circumcision and child marriages. Last week, finally, I signed a project with UNICEF in Benin, worth EUR 1 170 000, which also combats child marriages.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Els Van Hoof's 17018 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u21	You have already answered part of my question, Minister. To what extent does the announcement differ from the amounts already entered in the 2017 budget? Is it true that UNICEF can only count on EUR 60 million instead of the EUR 62 million initially committed? Where's the difference?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u22	The difference of EUR 10 million for UNFPA, EUR 36 instead of EUR 26 million, comes from the fund of "She Decides', if I understand correctly. So I have already received an answer to that question. How can the government control that the funds allocated are spent in line with our country's policy? Will the government do that effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u23	In the past, Minister, you have repeatedly referred to the importance of quality development cooperation. In early 2016, all development organisations were screened for your request by Deloitte & Touch to map their orga-nisational capacity. The weakest would be excluded from financing by the Belgian authorities. The other organisations would be classified according to their score. For example, the strongest could receive more funding, even if less control. In September 2016, all development organisations submitted a five-year plan for funding by the Belgian government. All programmes were analysed by the administration by means of a transparent scoring system for their quality. During consultation with the sector, it was announced that funding would be based on a quality ranking. The best programmes would be financed, the lower ranking programmes would not be financed or only partially. Based on Deloitte's orga-nisation screening and the program-mascreening by the administration, you had the opportunity to make choices that would reward quality. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Let me give you an example. FVOB achieved the best score of all institutional actors in Deloitte screening. In 6 of the 9 countries where the organisation operates, VVOB achieved the very best quality score for all organisations, institutional actors and NGOs in terms of programme quality, in one country the second best score, and in two countries the organisation was in the coupleton. However, we have to note that this organisation has been severely affected by savings and that, in fixing savings, more attention has been paid to maintaining institutional balances than to achieving quality. This is not without its follow-up: the organisation was forced to close its highly valued operation in Zimbabwe with immediate effect. Firstly, how much has the quality ranking been considered in the previous round of savings? Secondly, to what extent is the importance of quality in development cooperation attached to financing? Thirdly, to what extent will the quality scores be taken into account in future savings rounds? Fourthly, do you intend to save more on development cooperation? If yes, how do you ever want to meet the standard of 0,7 %?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u24	Minister, in times of humanitarian crises and conflicts, Development Cooperation has an important role to play in improving the lives of the most vulnerable populations. Belgium, like many other countries, has committed to devoting 0.7 per cent of gross national income to official development assistance in order to contribute to Goal 1 of the 2030 Agenda to eradicate poverty. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What is, ultimately, the amount and percentage of Belgium's official development assistance for 2016? In this amount actually closed in 2016, what is the percentage that falls under the budget of the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid and what is the percentage that falls under the reception of refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u25	I will give an overall answer in relation to the budget for Belgian development policy. On 11 April, the OECD published the ODA figures, i.e. real expenditure on the Belgian development policy. In 2016, the Belgian ODA amounted to 2.1 billion euros. This is an increase of 367 million euros compared to 2015. In relation to gross national income, the Belgian ODA increased from 0.42 % in 2015 to 0.49 % in 2016. It is true that part of the increase is due, in part, to the rise in the cost of accommodating young people, from 206 million euros in 2015 to 349 million euros in 2016. What's the fix? Our ODA increased by 367 million euros in 2016. Of this, EUR 143 million comes from the increase in the cost of receiving refugees. Thus, 60% of the increase in the development budget does not come from the reception of refugees. Mr De Vriendt, who is not here, says that there is a structural decline in my budget. That is absolutely not the case in the figures. The expenditure on my budget increased last year, for a bit through the recovery of refugees but more because of the increase in expenditure on the classic OS budget. I understand that this truth may disappoint some of you, because I have been struck by the moon by saying that the DGD budget for 2016 would fall. The reverse is true, the DGD budget rose last year. Where's that rise coming from today? There are two endings, firstly higher expenditure on humanitarian aid and secondly a substantial increase in the Belgian share of European development programmes. Belgium, for example, is the main donor to the European Development Fund after the Netherlands, which wants to tackle the root causes of migration in Africa. Those are the facts. The Belgian ODA increased last year and that is 60% an increase in expenditure on my budget. The figure of 0.49 % ODA relative to GNI is significantly higher than the OECD average, which is 0.31 %. The Belgian figure is also in line with the EU average of 0.51 %. With these figures, Belgium is the ninth most important bilateral donor. It is true that expenditure on the reception of refugees has also increased, I do not deny that, but the proportion of these costs in the Belgian ODA last year was 17%. In other words, 83% of the Belgian ODA did not go to the shelter last year. By the way, the debate on the definition of ODA has been going on about twenty times here. The definition of ODA used is the OECD definition, which I use just like all OECD countries. In our country it is not about communicating vessels, but it is about communicating vessels in a country like Sweden. If expenditure on refugee shelter increases, it will not have any effect on my budget. I note that my budget has increased considerably more than the contributions that have gone to refugees. I come to Mr Hellings' question, who is so kind to come and listen to the answer. With regard to the budget made available to non-governmental cooperation actors in 2017, I think I have already answered this question many times. In 2015, an economy of 8.5 per cent was agreed with non-governmental cooperation actors. However, they subsequently submitted applications which exceeded the amounts agreed with them by a total of 26 per cent. A rigorous exercise was therefore required to match the demand with the budget framework. This was done by the administration in assessing the quality of the proposals. The higher the quality, the more complete the funding. At the beginning of the year, the government decided to carry out an administrative blockage of 120 million euros for its budget, which is called, in our jargon, an under-utilization imposed. An additional savings of €6 to €7 million were made on the 2017 budget of non-governmental cooperation actors. In addition, the envelope for government cooperation in the DRC has been reduced as a result of a review of the implementation of ongoing projects. For Burundi, some projects have been suspended and others are in the process of reorientation. As I said, in 2016, Belgium achieved an ODA figure of 0.49%, an increase of 18% over 2015. The 0.7 standard is not fetish for me. The impact of our efforts and thus the results are much more important. I use the resources of the Belgian development policy as a lever to mobilise other resources. That's how I try to raise private capital for BIO. For example, I was able to convince the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to double the Belgian efforts to eliminate sleeping sickness. Global ODA rose last year, but once again the ODA fell for the poorest countries. You may be pleased that the glo-bale ODA has risen. I particularly regret the fact that the ODA has fallen for the poorest countries. What I have just said to Mr Hellings on the whole of non-governmental actors also applies mutatis mutandis to the FVOB. All institutional actors are affected in the same way. All departments, including mine, must make efforts to achieve the budgetary objectives. The budget was approved at the end of 2016. At the beginning of February 2017, I informed non-governmental actors that an additional effort would be required. All non-governmental actors were treated in the same way, including the FVOB. When the subsidies were finally awarded, I took into account the quality scores. The information contained in Mr De Vriendt's question is not correct. I'll come back to that later. I cannot comment on any savings in 2018 at the moment. Mr Van der Maelen, in 2015-2015 non-governmental actors were subject to a review of their management capacities. On the basis of these results, they were recognised or not. The recognised actors were then able to submit their grant applications. Those who did not succeed in the review were denied recognition and could no longer submit sub-sidisation programmes. The proposals submitted were assessed on the basis of their quality on the basis of general criteria, i.e. relation, effectiveness, objectiveness, sustainability, partnership, synergy and Leasons learned. Those DAC criteria were used in the past in the evaluation of programmes. Following the qualitative assessment, a policy assessment was carried out with the aim of assessing the proportion of Belgian policy priorities in the submitted programmes. Quality is therefore at the heart of the assessment of each grant application. For the same budgetary reasons, I also had to reduce the total Belgian contribution to our multilateral partner countries and organisations. In this case, I have not acted in the same way as the non-governmental actors. The non-governmental actors have all been treated in the same way. For the multilateral partner organisations, I have made policy accents. The contribution to these organizations was in some cases increased, in some cases reduced or remained unchanged. As regards the contribution to the general budget, UNICEF will receive an amount of EUR 60 million for the period 2017-2020. Unicef, together with the Global Fund, remains the organisation to which Belgium grants the highest voluntary contribution to the general budget, EUR 15 million per year. In addition, our country also pays contributions to Unicef through other instruments such as humanitarian aid. Given the political priority, which I give to sex and reproductive health and rights, I have decided to substantially increase contributions to the overall resources of UNFPA. For the period 2017-2020, the fund will not receive the originally estimated amount of EUR 26 million, but will indeed receive EUR 36 million. The aim is to continue to provide substantial support for that fund, not only in 2017, but over a much longer period. A large-scale and predictable support for four years allows the Fund to implement its strategic plan as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u26	Mr. Secretary, I'm still really hungry. I thought I clearly defined the problem. You said at the time that you would save on the basis of a quality ranking. VVOB assumed that one would feel little or nothing from the saving exercise when a good classification is done and if that is not the case, I would like to hear why. In my opinion, VVOB was right to expect this, because the organisation achieved the best score in the screening by Deloitte and in the screening by the administrations VVOB came out in a country as best, in two other countries second and in some other countries as one of the organisations in the summit. Nevertheless, VVOB has had to undo a heavy saving exercise. Unfortunately, this has been at the expense of a valued operation of VVOB in Zimbabwe, which has been stopped. I did not get an answer to my question about that. You said that there would be a right of proportionality between quality and the maintenance of subsidies. Now, VVOB scores well, but the organisation still has to hand in heavy. I'd like an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u27	Madam Chair, I'm sorry if you were shocked by the little noise of my fingers that was just to make you notice that I had arrived in the room and that was in no way – I'm sorry if you saw it this way – a sexist gesture. You know he's not my type. I apologize if you saw it as such. Minister, a thousand apologies because I am on two committees at a time. Thank you for your answers. You have talked about the economies that are under way and that are actually being imposed on you by the political and geopolitical events in two main partner countries, Burundi and the Congo. It's obvious. I invite you to suspend bilateral aid, a direct state with states that do not respect political agreements. That is normal and we support you in that regard. The fact is that these two countries represent an important part of our development assistance, which puts us in a difficult situation, since we are planning budgets, but we cannot use them. However, despite our discussions for a very long time, when you presented your policy notes, there is no module to reallocate our planned budgets to other budgets that might be appropriate. For example, one might imagine that, when bilateral funding is impossible, since the same political and geopolitical situations have been systematically faced for more than two years now, whether there is immediately after multilateral funding from NGOs or international organizations. We will return to that on the occasion of a later question that I asked you about the Congo and the ongoing food crisis. One might imagine being able to quickly reallocate – with a budgetary change and there are many budgetary discussions in the course of the year – this planned aid, this budget earmarked for development aid to projects, certainly not affecting the intended primary target. Thus, these resources could still be allocated to development assistance. Organizations such as the United Nations and the European Union have multilateral projects that could be temporarily boosted by these budgets that you cannot and should not use for the bilateral assistance originally planned. I really invite you to think about these reassignment modules because development aid must remain development aid, despite difficult geopolitical situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u28	Madam President, I will paraphrase my colleague: development aid must remain so. The figures presented to us this afternoon raise questions. As a first step, Mr Minister, you have tried to show that the development cooperation budget has not suffered cuts, that the amounts allocated to the reception of refugees are not disproportionate or as large and that they do not affect the flow of amounts allocated to development cooperation. In the second part of your answer, you explain to us that there have been structural cuts in NGO budgets, in the general budget of Development Cooperation. You are deliberately mixing the amounts of under-expenditure in an attempt to make us believe that everything is going well in the best of the worlds and that there is no budgetary reduction in development cooperation. That is not the case, as we all know, and it is enough to consult the budgets to see it. You confirm yourself, in a second step, that there are cuts in some budgets. Unfortunately, development cooperation continues to be used as a department to adjust budgets: it is the budgetary adjustment variable, which is a pity. Minister, please be aware that we are not looking forward to this state of affairs. Despite everything you say about it, we see that there are real cuts in these budgets. We find this regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u29	Madam President, I would like to clarify a few points. Firstly, as far as the FVOB is concerned, in the many discussions we have had with non-governmental actors, it has always been said that each actor would be impacted by savings, but that the degree of savings would depend on the quality of the programme. The FVOB had a good score, but had to save some compared to the initial budget. However, there is a difference with what the VVOB had submitted. As I said in my reply, there was an initial saving. It was then proposed that programmes should be submitted, and the amount of what was submitted was 26 million higher than what was initially agreed. By the way, the VVOB was one of the ones who had done the most overshooting. The FVOB now says that it had to save a lot compared to what it had submitted, but was much higher than what was initially agreed. If one compares that with what was initially agreed, it has had to make savings, but not as much as compared to what they had submitted, which was very much. I don't want to open Pandora's box, but the FVOB is active in the field of education. You know that development cooperation is a para-llelle competence. In practice, however, this is absolutely not the case. The FVOB is financed for 0.2% from Flanders, while it is about education, which today is not a federal authority. I'm not hiding behind that. It is a debate that will have to be held one day, but I can already see that a whole Flemish organisation within a whole Flemish domain is almost entirely financially dependent on federal budgets. With regard to the freezing of budgets for Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mr Hellings, who was no longer there, said that they should be allocated to something else. Technically, it's not obvious and politically, it's a message. When you freeze a budget, the message we're giving is that we don't agree with the way things are going. In doing so, we are prepared to re-engage budgets if things improve. If you don't freeze budgets and assign them to something else, you've already closed the door, even if things change! We have always used this measure to convey a message, while keeping the opportunity to restart actions if circumstances improve.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u30	Minister, I will go through your answer with the FVOB and I will come back to it if necessary. You did not say so, but it could be an anomaly: development cooperation is a parallel competence, education is a Flemish competence. I agree with you that it should be financed much more by the Flemish level. However, I would like to express the wish that, if this were to be started, this would be done in consultation between the federal and Flemish governments. The Flemish wing of the federal government is identical to the composition of the Flemish government. Please make sure that the South is not the victim of a debate between the federal and Flemish levels. If next time savings are made and they would have to do with the strange situation that exists today, please do not move unless you know that the necessary resources are provided at the Flemish level, at the level of the French Community and at the level of the German-speaking Community. As you have just said, I support you in saying that education is one of the most important powers and tasks we have in the South, if only it has been mentioned in connection with women's rights, access to it on an on-the-spot basis. It would not be nice if, as a result of a discussion on the distribution of competence in Belgium, we in the South were to find that our support for education is falling.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u31	There is absolutely no intention of starting this kind of difficult discussion during this period of government. The reality of the day is that it is a parallel competence, but it is not. University development cooperation, which is a particularly successful instrument, is also financed almost entirely by federal means. One can ask questions as to whether that makes sense. However, I like to keep the powers I have.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u32	Madam President, Minister, as you know, the Royal Order of April 2, 2014 established an Advisory Council on Policy Coherence for Development. The main mission of the Council is to provide advice with a view to enhancing respect for and coherence in development policies. Last December, the Advisory Council issued a number of recommendations, including on the external debt of so-called "developing" countries. More specifically, the Council recommends that governments "set up an audit of Belgian claims in order to identify the possible share of illegal, odious and illegitimate claims held by Belgium, in accordance with the resolutions adopted by the Belgian parliamentary assemblies and international law" and "cancell Belgian claims on developing countries arising from illegal, odious or illegitimate debts". In addition, the Council refers to the issue of vulture funds by referring in particular to the law adopted by our assembly on 12 July 2015. The opinion recommends that Belgium "incentive other EU and OECD Member States to adopt equivalent legislation." This recommendation is all the more important because, at present, this law is threatened by an action for annulment before the Constitutional Court, brought by the vulture fund "MML Capital". The Court has just given an opinion that you are certainly already aware of, Minister. In addition, the Advisory Board recommends "to conclude a framework contract with the developing countries concerned to define an investment plan financed by the amounts released by the cancellation of illegal, odious or illegitimate debts, and intended for sectors identified as priorities for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals." Therefore, Minister, 1) In general, what follow-up do you intend to give to the recommendations of the Advisory Council on Policy Coherence for Development on illegal debts and vulture funds in line with the law adopted by our Assembly? 2) In particular with regard to the fight against vulture funds, will you encourage our partners, particularly European ones, to adopt similar legislation, as the Council suggests? Président: Dirk Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u33	Mr President, the opinion of the Advisory Council on Policy Coherence for Development on the management of the external debt of developing countries, which mentions the issue of vulture funds, was published last December. Belgium actively highlighted the law as a model for international action, including at the Third International Conference on Financing for Development in Addis Ababa in July 2015. A Belgian side event on this topic was organised in the presence of, among others, the Secretary-General of UNCTAD and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Argentina. Following the publication of the law, the Belgian initiative on this subject was the subject of several declarations and presentations. At the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in December 2015 in New York, Belgium was mentioned many times as an example in the debate on vulture funds. Belgian representatives presented the laws of 2008 and 2015, on several occasions at the Paris Club meetings where the main bilateral creditors were represented. The law of 12 September 2015 was discussed at the Paris Forum which took place on 29 November 2016 and whose theme was a reflection on the operational principles of sustainable financing for development. In June 2016, Juan Pablo Bohoslavky, United Nations international expert on foreign debt and human rights, wrote an article on the strong character of Belgian legislation against vulture funds, which he considers to be a model worthy of being imitated at world level. Finally, I have not yet been able to read the opinion of the Constitutional Court you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u34	This does not concern the law that we have passed almost unanimously on vulture funds, but the confiscation of public property or assets by vulture funds. It's connected, but it's another subject. I have not yet had time to read the ruling of the Constitutional Court, but I think it is worth looking into it to see if something needs to be rectified. I'm talking to the conditional. I understand, Mr.President, that the Minister fully adheres to the objectives of the 2015 legislator, who was able to obtain broad unanimity in order to provide a legal response to the harmful practices of vulture funds. I'm glad. I also understand that he may be the first to try to emulate at the international level and, therefore, to convince other countries to join Belgium's approach. I hope that he will put his energy and his intelligence, which we know very well, so that the Belgian legislative initiative can serve as an example for other countries. At this point, I thank the Minister and take note of his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u35	Mr President, Minister, recently, the implementation of a Corporate Human Rights Benchmark for investors and human rights organisations offers the possibility for 98 companies, including a Belgian, to be inspected on criteria related to respect for human rights. These companies come from three main sectors that are often criticized for the conditions of workers: clothing, raw materials and food. They are studied in the light of 100 criteria such as wages, the freedom of trade unions and the absence of child labour. Although the project was supported by the British, Swiss and Dutch authorities, as well as international trade unions, the results appear to be worse than hoped. AB InBev, for example, ranks 45th with only 27% and only 6 companies received half of the points, while 63 of 98 companies did not reach 30%. Minister, are you aware of this benchmarking process? What conclusions do you draw? According to your department's analysis, are the methods and criteria used relevant? Did Belgium support the project? If not, is support envisaged? Do you know of any other Belgian companies that wish to participate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u36	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, my administration and I know the Corporate Human Rights Benchmark, which I could describe as a generic, and which is essentially the result of discussions at the latest United Nations forums on the subject of Business and Human Rights. Our initial impressions lead us to note the following positive elements: an initiative led by actors from different backgrounds, a ranking that allows both dialogue and a catalytic effect on business policies in the field of human rights, a better visibility, readability and understanding of business performance, and a more fluid and richer dialogue with businesses and other actors. At present, we do not conduct any in-depth analysis of the method or criteria used. However, the initiative seems to us to be quite interesting, relatively independent financially and allowing participating companies to increase their visibility and understanding of their policies and their business and human rights outcomes. Belgium has not financially supported this project and direct financial support is currently not envisaged. On the other hand, a more in-depth analysis of this initiative could make sense, particularly in the context of the many ongoing and forthcoming dialogues with the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers. I share your analysis. I think that this question can really be cross-cutting. We will have the opportunity to talk about this when we deal with other issues. Thank you for these interesting elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u38	The next item is Mr Benoit Hellings' question on the implementation of the OECD recommendations following the 2015 peer review of the Belgian Development Cooperation (No. 17033)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u39	Mr President, I turn this question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u40	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u41	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, maize has a prominent place in the daily meal of Congolese people, especially because maize flour and cassava flour are at the heart of the preparation of fufu, a dish consumed by more than 80% of vulnerable populations, therefore by the poorest Congolese. Moreover, it is an essential source of income for small farmers throughout the country. Since autumn 2016, corn cultivation has been confronted with larval attacks of a lepidoptera identified under the frightening scientific name of Spodoptera frugiperda. After the province of South Ubangi, the province of Haut-Katanga is attacked by these insects, as is the plateau of Batéké in the city of Kinshasa province. For example, the health alert was launched in Kinshasa on 14 February by the Congolese Ministry of Agriculture, FAO and WFP - which is not nothing - during a press conference. "With the destruction of maize production, the food security situation of thousands of Congolese will worsen further. There is therefore an urgent need to plan emergency response to alleviate some of the problems faced by small producers and consumers of maize," said Alexis Bonte, the FAO representative in the Congo. Already today, about six million people are in need of humanitarian assistance. WFP is therefore concerned that the crisis caused by caterpillar attacks will further affect the population. This risks exacerbating conflicts in production areas and increasing tensions between communities, which are already palpable today. FAO, WFP and the various Congolese universities are working to establish coordination to prevent, detect and respond to this parasite. The aim is also to raise awareness among producers and to train them adequately in the technical procedures to be followed to combat this pest. The current political situation in the Congo prompts you, quite rightly, to reduce the amounts of direct cooperation between Belgium and the Congo. With this ongoing food crisis, do you therefore plan to divert the 2017 budgets from this direct collaboration with the Congolese government towards managing this crisis, in collaboration with the very serious partners of WFP and FAO? What exact amounts can be allocated to the management of this ongoing health and food crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u42	Mr President, in December 2009, the Joint Commission agreed on an Indicative Programme of Cooperation for the period 2010 - 2013 with an envelope of EUR 300 million. This programme focuses on three sectors: the choice of the track and ferry sector, coupled with agriculture, technical education and vocational training. In April 2014, an interim programme of cooperation 2014 – 2015 with an envelope of €80 million was signed. The programme comprises three actors: technical education and vocational training, agriculture and rural development, and the health sector. A reorientation note on Belgian-Congolese cooperation was drafted in 2015 - 2016, with the aim of rationalizing our cooperation in the DRC to make it more efficient, efficient and closer to the population, with a more results-oriented and sustainability-oriented vision. The political and economic situation in 2016 imposed a substantial reduction in the initial amounts of two indicative cooperation programmes of the order of €48 million. Belgium allocates its humanitarian funding on the basis of humanitarian principles in accordance with the priorities identified by its partners recognised for their expertise in this field. The funding provided is based on an analysis of existing needs. In the DRC, Belgium provides support to several partners that can implement humanitarian actions. Over the period 2017 – 2018, Belgium has committed to finance the following flexible funds: 1. A €6 million contribution to the DRC Humanitarian Fund (DRC HF), the flexible fund managed by the UN Office for the Coordination for Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) fund to finance first-time humanitarian actions. 2. A contribution of 10 million euros to the Immediate Response Account (IRA) under WFP, a very active partner in the DRC. This fund allows it to intervene flexibly and quickly in crisis situations. 3. A contribution of €6 million to the FAO Special Fund for Emergency and Recovery Activities (SFERA). The Fund provides sufficient and flexible financial resources to enable it to respond easily to humanitarian crises. For the period 2016 – 2017, Belgium contributed up to 1.2 million to WFP for its emergency operation for refugees from the Central African Republic, located in three camps in the DRC and 800,000 euros for the United Nations Humanitarian Air Service (UNHAS) in the DRC. At present, my administration is exploring the possibility of providing €7.7 million in funding for the Great Lakes region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u43	Minister, thank you. I understand the catalogue of the various actions that you are carrying out in and around the region. In this case, my question was specific in relation to an ongoing humanitarian and food crisis that could intensify in the coming months. We come back to the discussion we have had earlier on how to ensure the use, for development cooperation purposes, of planned budgets that you cannot spend, while making them flexible and accessible to NGOs and beneficiaries in these developing countries - starting here with the Congolese - and working with credible international institutions such as WFP or FAO. There is an opportunity here to be able to serve small-scale farmers in the Congo through programmes carried out by recognized international institutions. With some kind of budgetary artifice that would intervene at the level of the law or through a royal ministerial decree, you could respond to humanitarian and food demands in developing countries. Here we have an example that we should use in the next budgetary debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u44	Mr President, Minister, the United Nations warned at the beginning of March that the world is facing the "worst humanitarian crisis since the end of the Second World War", with a risk of malnutrition and famine for 20 million people in three African countries and Yemen. Somalia, South Sudan, Nigeria and Yemen, all in armed conflict, are the countries mentioned in the statement to the Security Council by UN Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Stephen O'Brien. The leader, who visited Yemen, South Sudan and Somalia earlier this month, called for urgent mobilization, demanding $4.4 billion from the international community by July to "avoid a disaster". I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Does Belgium intend to join this global fundraiser? The government has announced an additional euro to each euro paid to consortium 12-12. Is it still up to date? If so, how much?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u45	Mr President, Minister, on 22 March the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations announced the need to intensify its activities in Nigeria, South Sudan, Somalia and Yemen, where there is a risk of serious famine. Actions on the ground will be possible thanks to a recently approved $22 million loan. However, more than 20 million people would be at risk of starvation in several countries in the Sahel. Food insecurity stems not only from a major drought in this region of the world, but also from numerous conflicts that have disrupted local public institutions. Mr Minister, have any warning signs of this situation of famine already been detected by NGOs long before the situation was exposed to the UN? In the face of this emergency, what are the means used to respond to this humanitarian crisis bilaterally and multilaterally? In the longer term, what will be the means used to enable these countries to achieve food self-sufficiency? The Government had pledged to devote 15% of the resources of the Development Cooperation budget to interventions in the fields of agriculture and food security. What instruments will be implemented to improve food self-sufficiency in these countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u46	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to recall everything that my colleagues have already said. We are indeed facing one of the most serious humanitarian crises ever. I come back from the General Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union in Bangladesh. Belgium had requested an urgent agenda item to discuss a resolution on this issue, joined by the United Kingdom and Kenya. This led to a very interesting debate and a resolution calling on the international authorities to act urgently to save millions of people from famine and drought in Yemen and other parts of eastern Africa. Minister, have you read this resolution? Can you tell me whether the catastrophic humanitarian situation in Yemen and that part of Africa has already been discussed at a European or international meeting? Is the European Union ready to help international organisations take emergency measures to combat famine? Are you planning, together with your European and international colleagues, to develop mechanisms to address the root causes of famine and drought?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u47	Mr President, within my administration, the humanitarian aid service closely monitors the evolution of crises and conducts an analysis of the world's humanitarian needs every year. To this end, it uses various instruments, such as the ACAPS reports published at the end of the year, which include an analysis of crises and humanitarian needs for the following year. The humanitarian service is also based on humanitarian appeals issued by OCHA (UN) earlier this year and maintains a regular dialogue with the Country Directors of humanitarian organizations. In particular in the food aid sector, humanitarian services refer to the Famine Early Warning System Network, an early warning system that publishes food security analyses. Given the exceptional food situation in Yemen, Nigeria, Somalia and South Sudan, defined by the Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator as the worst humanitarian crisis since the Second World War, on 25 March 2017, I announced my decision to double the donations to the joint appeal launched by Consortium 12-12, bringing together several large Belgian NGOs for the victims of famine in these four countries. NGOs include Caritas International, Handicap International, Médecins du Monde, Oxfam Solidarity, Plan Belgique and Unicef Belgique. By the end of last week, this 12-12 call had already raised €7.25 million, a minimum amount that I will double. The situation in Yemen, Nigeria, Somalia and South Sudan is indeed dramatic. The total number of people directly or potentially facing famine in these four countries is estimated at 20 million, of whom 1.4 million are at risk of acute malnutrition. In addition, EUR 15 million will also be allocated to the ICRC and the three UN humanitarian organisations, UNHCR, UNICEF and WFP. With these amounts, Belgian humanitarian financing for, the crises in Yemen, South Sudan, Nigeria and Somalia therefore amounts to just over 35 million euros in 2017. These four countries are not partners in Belgian development policy. Therefore, there are no bilateral programmes or projects. In addition, we do not fund any intervention by non-governmental cooperation actors in these four countries. In addition, on 21 and 22 June, I will participate in an international humanitarian conference to be held in the Ugandan capital, Kampala, chaired by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, which will address the humanitarian situation in South Sudan and the situation of South Sudanese refugees in Uganda. I will take the opportunity to make field visits to Southern Sudan and northern Uganda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you said, you will attend an international conference on 21 and 22 June 2017. At European level, it is important to bring this issue to bear also in the various contacts you have with your European counterparts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u49	Minister, at the last meeting of the Committee on External Relations, you have your policy choice to abolish the information cycle, inter alia, by pointing out that there should be no monopoly on the formation of young people in relation to international cooperation. You also mentioned that the universities of our country and also the NGOs are more than suitable to receive the training offered by the BTC. Although I have no doubt of the years of experience and enthusiasm of the Belgian North-South NGOs, I still have my doubts about realising your suggestion. You cut the budgets of the Belgian NGOs at the beginning of this year, especially in the North. Perhaps you could explain to me how you expect civil society to organise decent education for thousands of young people every year with fewer people and a smaller budget. So you expect even more performance with a small budget, and I think that is quite unrealistic. All the time and resources that would be devoted to education, they cannot spend elsewhere, while you do expect them to spend more in the South itself. On the one hand, you are talking about spending the money for development cooperation in the South and, on the other hand, you expect civil society to fill the deficit in the North that your decision is making. Does your cabinet negotiate with civil society or universities on the development of such formations? What will be the plan B if neither universities nor civil society take initiatives to overcome the gap in the information cycle?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u50	Minister, despite some success among young people, the Infocycle training may be eliminated. It was intended for a wide audience, with a simple financial contribution. The purpose of this training is to raise awareness and involve citizens in global issues. Composed of a digital part and another ex-cathedra, it deals with topics related to development cooperation, such as gender, climate and migration. Minister, how long has this training been in place? For what purpose was it created? Was it linked to a Belgian Technical Cooperation (BTC) function? Why was the training aimed at such a broad audience? What is the budget allocated for this training? Will this budget be allocated to another, more appropriate training? In your opinion, did this training correspond to the CTB's missions? Which organizations were involved in this training? Were the latter mainly from the voluntary sector or were they members of the CTB?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u51	Minister, since 2001, more than 16,000 participants have followed the Infocycle. They are trained by more than 500 speakers from the private sector, academia, NGOs and civil society at large. You confirmed in February that the Infocycle was going to be abolished, but that you were waiting for concrete proposals from the CTB to ensure the training of young people in terms of international development and sustainable development. Mr Minister, a few months after our first discussions, I would therefore like to ask you about this point. What proposals were finally validated by your department and up to what budget? What concrete consequences will this deletion of the Infocycle and the new proposals have on the staff of the CTB?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u52	During the debate in this Chamber on 14 February, I did indeed go into the context in which I decided to stop the information cycle in its present form. I do not think it is useful for me to repeat this in extreme terms. I shall therefore sum up in a very brief way my very exhaustive answer given two months ago. The Infocycle is governed by a four-year agreement covering the period 2014-2017, with a budget of €5.3 million. It is organized ten times a year, each time for eight days, and welcomes about 100 participants. The program was positively evaluated in 2016 with respect to its relevance. On the other hand, the evaluation was very critical in terms of its sustainability, its impact, its high costs, the lack of synergy with other existing initiatives and in terms of communication. In different forms, the information cycle has actually existed for some forty years. The programme has been substantially reformed several times. On the basis of the rather critical review of 2016, I have come to the conclusion that this was once again necessary. Whatever is involved, of course, is the budgetary context. I won't hide that. At a time when we have less resources, we have to give up a lot of programmes. At the same time, we must use this context to improve programme performance and make it more relevant to achieve better results. For 2017, the economy requested from the Infocycle is 52 000 euros. The remaining budget is EUR 1.3 million. You will agree with me that this reduction is very modest: just 4%. As far as the medium and long term are concerned, the convention on the implementation of the Infocycle ends, in any case, at the end of 2017. It was therefore necessary to take a decision on the future of this programme. That is why, in October 2016, following the evaluation I mentioned, I asked the BTC to submit proposals for the future of this program. The Infocycle team at the BTC consists of nine people. One of them had a fixed-term contract which will end in August. Another person found a new orientation within the BTC. The contracts of the other seven individuals will be terminated this year. As a result, the BTC and DGD decided to reduce the number of training cycles from nine to seven. The last cycle, in its current form, will take place in September 2017. Two things will happen with the resources that are saved in this way. An event will be organised to close the programme and to draw lessons from the experience of recent years. A budget of EUR 50 million is foreseen to investigate what could be the successor to Infocycle. I have repeatedly said that I am convinced of the need for such a training programme. I would, however, like to abolish the BTC's monopoly on its organisation, and I would also like to see better cooperation in this programme with the existing initiatives of universities, colleges and non-governmental organisations. During the April Management Board, the General Director of the BTC reported on this investigation. He pointed out that the target group of adults wishing to deepen their knowledge of international cooperation has grown significantly since the launch of Infocycle. The universities and NGOs offer various training courses. The BTC is currently investigating how they can provide online training together with the institutions and organisations, for example through the so-called Massive Open Online Courses. Meanwhile, Infocyclus updates the website Train2Dev.be. This website provides an overview of all courses for adults in Belgium on the theme of Development Cooperation. Info-cycle is therefore in contact with organisations that organise these courses, both universities and NGOs and also private companies. For the renewed programme as of next year, I expect concrete proposals from the BTC after the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u53	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The budget for Infocycle was limited, yet crucial. As the honourable Member pointed out, nearly 16 000 people took part. It is thanks to this kind of North Service that support is created and critical citizenship is formed. I hope that after the recess we can discuss the BTC proposal with you. As far as North-South cooperation is concerned, education is very important for young people and I hope that it can still be organized, despite the reduction in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u54	Minister, we agree. This year, the four-year contract will take place again with a budget finally very little planed. I also hear that similar solutions are being sought. The trail seems very interesting to me. Mr President, Minister, I also think that more cross-cutting work is needed with all the actors, universities and non-governmental organisations in order to bring the necessary know-how to those to whom these cycles are intended. When I got out of college, I've already gone through one of those cycles. That's nice. It's pretty. We learn a little about development cooperation, but I prefer to say it, honestly, I haven't learned much more than I have perhaps already had in my university curriculum. Avoiding redundancy from what might have already been acquired elsewhere could be an original solution for those cycles that will still take place in the future, as this is the Minister's will. At the end of the year, the CTB will present proposals, a "Infocyclebis". Mr Minister, we will certainly have an opportunity to debate it in committee when the proposals are on the table, and I welcome them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u55	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I am not sure I understand everything because, as the interpreters have pointed out, you sometimes speak very quickly, which makes interpretation difficult. It's also hard for me to understand in Dutch. If you could make an effort in the future, it might make it possible to have a better understanding between us. I understood, and that is very well, that in any case for this year and for the September 2017 session, the Infocycle would be maintained. This is already good news. What worries me a little more is what will happen afterwards. Mrs Jadin, I have no difficulty with the idea that at some point we can look at how these Infocycles are going, assess their relevance and make improvements. But I fear that, since the will is to achieve budgetary savings, we are not trying to find the best possible solution, but rather to achieve the budgetary objective. That is not what should guide us. I followed this Infocycle. I found that people taking this training had very different profiles. For some, the theoretical inputs were not of great relevance because they had already had the opportunity to acquire knowledge in the course of their studies, as for others who had followed different courses, this was an interesting added value obtained over a relatively short period of time which allowed them to become familiar with development cooperation and to invest directly in Belgian cooperation without having followed long courses on the subject mentioned above. I don't think you should throw the baby away with the bath water. It is necessary to take into account the diversity of the profiles of the people who follow this information cycle, to assess its usefulness for all of these profiles, to try to make the most of them so that it can continue to exist and to offer an added value compared to the trainings that already exist today. This infocycle, everyone must be able to benefit from it according to their needs. I am therefore very much in favour of pursuing the latter. I see no problem in the fact that there is an evaluation and that improvements are being made. But we must not only be guided by budgetary considerations, because it is the best way to make bad decisions about this program.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u56	Mr Minister, recently BIO, the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries, sold its participation in the Cambodian micro-credit institution Prasac. In 2005, the BIO stepped in for 1.95 million euros. It lent EUR 7.5 million in loans to Prasac for the duration of its participation and finally sold its interest to Sri Lankan LOLC and Hong Kong-based Bank of East Asia for a net value of EUR 60 to 70 million. Not only is this a brilliant example of the good work of the BIO and the added value that that instrument provided for Belgian development cooperation. The proceeds of the sale are a beautiful and unexpected windfall for the owner of the BIO, the Belgian State. The question is, however, what are we going to do about it? Your cabinet had informed De Tijd that it is still under review, but that the money will probably be used for development purposes, from there my questions. What arguments did the BIO have to sell its participation and what were Prasac's further growth expectations? Does the sale indeed have to do with the supposedly embarrassing situation, from a developmental point of view, of the increasing added value that Prasac had, as suggested in the newspaper? What procedure exists to determine in situations like this what happens to the proceeds of the sale? Who makes the final decision? What reason does the BIO indicate for the success of the participation? Can we get best practice out of it, which we can obviously still use in the future? What are the possibilities to ensure that profits from the BIO are returned to Belgian development cooperation? Why is that desirable or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u57	The BIO was a member of Prasac since 2006. At the moment of the investment in 2006, the added value of the BIO was clear. In the context of privatisation, this small set-up needed a sound capital base to enable stable growth. In this way, the BIO was able to contribute to the further development of the microfinance sector in Cambodia, especially in rural areas. In addition to the financial added value, BIO also played a role in professionalising reporting, stimulating the creation of a risk management department, encouraging the implementation of client protection principles, improving governance and facilitating access to further funding sources. The BIO could also contribute to capacity building and funded a study on the operational strategy. Prasac has grown very strongly in recent years and has reached a customer base of more than 350 000 customers who have a microcredit at the institution, spread over 181 offices in 25 provinces. Its total asset grew from 37 million US dollars to 1.3 billion US dollars. Prasac gradually developed the ambition to transform into a bank and thus allow greater diversification of its products and sources of finance. In this context, the Cambodian Central Bank demanded that Prasac be given a strategic shareholder, preferably a commercial bank capable of bringing on board the necessary know-how and strong financial strength. In this context, Prasac's Board of Directors organised an auction process which soon showed a wide interest from the regional banking sector. The BIO's exit therefore fit into the bank's transformation and offered the BIO the opportunity to successfully complete the investment after 10 years. It is true that the added value of the investment is exceptionally high and very different from the average return the BIO pursues and achieves in general. The BIO has to write off unsuccessful investments from time to time. This may be the result of an exceptional outcome. The reasons for the success lie in the fact that the BIO was able to invest in an attractive, but small player at the time of entry, who has more than lived up to its promises of sustainable development and financial inclusion of low-income people, while at the same time becoming an attractive partner for a regional bank. The microfinance sector in Cambodia has grown very strongly in recent years. Prasac became the market leader and became the largest non-bank non-bank microfinance institution in the country. In addition, regional banks are interested in their presence in the Southeast Asian region to develop it. In the context of the auction process, it was established that the more well-reputed regional banking groups were interested in getting a foothold in Cambodia via Prasac. How did the decision process go? The management of the BIO proposed to the board of directors in 2016 to sell the stake in Prasac. It's the board that decides. On the Board of Directors of the BIO, I have as Minister representation through a government commissioner. This Government Commissioner may object to a decision of the Governing Board if he considers this decision to be contrary to Belgian development policy or the public interest. In this file, there was no objection whatsoever to the decision to sell Prasac, on the contrary. The management of the BIO has kept the board of directors of the BIO, and therefore also me as minister, continuously informed about the settlement. This process took about a year. What will happen to this extraordinary profit? Each year, the board of directors of the BIO makes a proposal on the use of profits to the general meeting, in which I, as Minister of the Belgian State, am the sole shareholder. In general, it is a double decision, part of the profits is distributed as dividends to the sole shareholder, part is held within the company and can be re-invested. In view of the exceptional result achieved with the sale of the stake in Prasac this year, it would thus contribute to the profit in the financial year 2017. The General Assembly will not decide on its use until spring 2018. That gives us a moment to see how we use this exceptional profit best. Of course, this is already under consideration. One of the possible slopes is to keep part of the profits within the BIO and to use them for investments in climate projects. As said, this is currently being studied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u58	Mr President, Minister, the results show that this is an exceptional profit, but the work of the BIO is valuable. Thanks to the investments of the BIO, an independent market has now emerged that has a future. I am convinced, and our group is convinced, that it is also the task of inter-national cooperation to contribute to this, to create conditions for the future. I note, however, that the private sector's commitment to development cooperation is not evident. It is mainly about the anonymous source in the newspaper, which talks about embarrassing situations. That's a pity. I regret such statements. This difficult relationship between development and enterprise also demonstrates the critical questions about the focus on entrepreneurship in your new Agricultural and Food Security Strategy Paper. This is, in our view, unjustified criticism because enterprise is a form of development. If we use entrepreneurship as an instrument, with a view to sustainability and respect for inter-national labour regulations, then our business seems to be an important catalyst for helping the South.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u59	Moreover, my group believes that capital gains should be taxed, but that is not for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u60	Minister, 2014 was a hopeful year for Burkina Faso. With a peaceful democratic popular uprising, dictator Blaise Compaoré was driven out and steps were taken towards a full democratic system. Given the importance of being present in fragile situations on the African continent, which you underline in your policy paper, you chose to include Burkina Faso in the group of new partner countries. Recently I had the privilege through the organisation Broederlijk Delen to get in touch with representatives of the civil society of Burkina Faso. The picture they presented of the democratic situation and the legitimacy of the re-election was disturbing. The population is frustrated because the government has little vision and continues the previous policy on many points. For example, the agricultural sector is neglected by the government, although this sector is important for the prosperity of so many Burkinians. The government's popularity is falling and frustration among the younger population is increasing more and more. The representatives of the middle field in Burkina Faso are convinced that this poses a threat to the newly acquired democracy in their country. Despite the crucial factor of agriculture, and in particular small-scale agriculture, in Burkina Faso, you have chosen other priorities, such as a start-up programme focusing on reproductive rights of women and girls and a programme focusing on access to drinking water and its rehabilitation. Although the importance of these two issues cannot be denied, the lack of attention to agriculture is problematic in a country where this sector has such a social, economic and political importance. Given the new cooperation between Belgium and Burkina Faso, the fragile state of the democratisation process of Burkina Faso and the historic Belgian support for democratisation and small-scale family farmers, I ask you the following questions. What steps is the Belgian Government, and you in particular, prepared to take to further support the democratization process in Burkina Faso? How does Enabel take into account the challenges of food security in Burkina Faso? Is the new 2017 cooperation agreement giving greater importance to the agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Pehlivan, as regards your first question, in October 2014, a popular uprising in Burkina Faso drove out the former pre-sident, Blaise Compaoré. He came to power in 1987 through a coup d'état and was elected in 1991. He was re-elected in 1998 and 2005. After an attempt to re-enlist by a constitutional change, a popular uprising broke out that forced him to leave the country. Following a transitional phase and democratic elections, Roch Marc Christian Kaboré was appointed President on 29 December 2015. In January 2016, I was able to meet him. As you say correctly, the population is hoping for a rapid improvement in its situation, but, as you may know, as an enclosed country in the dry Sahel region, the challenges are very great. It is obvious that this government and myself will continue to follow the process of democratization in Burkina Faso. Support for civil society is crucial. That is why I have decided to grant more than 40 million in grants over the next five years to support the cooperation programme for non-governmental actors, many of which are active in the agricultural sector. With regard to the start-up programme for gouvernement cooperation, which became operational in 2016, I have opted for two programmes which can produce fairly quickly visible results, namely the supply of the se-cundary city of Fada Neubourma with drinking water and an intervention by the United Nations Population Fund for better family planning and support for the development of women in rural areas. I come to your second question. At the moment, our embassy, in cooperation with the BTC, is making an analysis of the opportunities that reflect our priorities as well as those of Burkina Faso. Providing employment through sustainable entrepreneurship seems to be our path that needs to be further developed. Attention to productive agriculture, transformation and marketing will certainly play a major role. A proposal for a new cooperation programme is currently under preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I look forward to the new strategy paper. Hopefully, civil society organisations will also be given the necessary attention, as requested. You will receive our full support for the programme you have already developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u63	Mr President, as part of your reform of non-governmental cooperation actors, the ability of institutional actors to set up their own federations has been created. That has happened by now. FIABEL represents the interests of the various institutional actors. In addition, as part of the same reform, you introduced the CSFs system. In this way, the IAs can cooperate with the NGOs. VVSG apparently writes to cities and municipalities which have city ties in certain countries with which they have established CSFs. Strangely enough, this communication takes place in French and the whole project is explained in French. How is this happening in French, Minister? Is there any control over the use of funds? Where can cities and municipalities which do not agree with the use of funds in these projects be told? How is there consultation between the different levels of policy involved and the institutional actors? What guidance can local authorities count on?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u64	VVSG's grant application to DGD is in Dutch. Country files are often drawn up in the language of the partner country, because the partner municipalities participate in the file and they have to carry it out eventually. The par-tner agreements are signed in two languages, namely the Dutch and the language of the partner municipality. The communication around the CSFs takes place in the language of the partner country. It is therefore communicated with Morocco, Senegal and Benin in French, with Nicaragua, Guatemala, Peru, Bolivia and Ecuador in Spanish and with South Africa in English. The Flemish municipalities are often involved in the mailing list. While it used to be a city band program, it is now even more a VVSG program. The VVSG acts as an administrator and coordinator of the programme. The municipalities and their partners implement it in the context of their own local global policy. This means that the VVSG, in consultation with the participating Flemish municipalities, sets up an indicative budget and submits its plans to DGD on the basis of that budget. Municipal autonomy over the choice of the programme is somewhat limited, as the country programmes must be drawn up jointly and adapted to the content of the CSFs. The VVSG has tried to integrate the themes and visions of the municipalities in the CSFs, allowing them to carry out their own ideas and plans. There is therefore quite a lot of respect for the specific municipal plans. During the implementation, the VVSG ensures an annual financial and very comprehensive audit and frequently considers the possibility of budget restructuring in consultation with the participating Flemish municipalities. The local government level and the provincial and regional authorities and the federal government have been fairly well consulted. Especially when it comes to achieving the SDGs, good consultation between the different levels of government is crucial. The VVSG is both a representative of the municipal government level and a grant recipient of federal funds. The management offered by the VVSG to the participating municipalities of the federal programme consists of many aspects: bimonthly consultation meetings of the Flemish municipalities, per-manent helpdesk function, guidance during missions, formation of Flemish municipal officials and their partner municipalities, translation of the federal guidelines into municipal reality and the participatory format of the multi-annual programme during the joint planning week. With this guidance, the VVSG offers added value both to the municipal administration and to the political representatives of the municipalities. The VVSG tackles the guidance in an integral way. The International Service of the VVSG limits its guidance and services to the municipalities not to the participating 18 municipalities of the federal programme or the 88 participating municipalities of the Flemish incentive policy for municipal development cooperation, he also works for the remaining 308 municipalities. The guidance is mainly demand-driven from the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-09-54-commissie-ic658x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. It is indeed very important that the role is properly defined. In the interests of integration, concentration of resources and synergies, good cooperation is needed. In that case, it is also necessary to clarify who has what role in the story, from the federal level to the sub-states and the local level. This can only benefit the initiatives that are being taken. It is a pity that the country information is sent to the municipalities. I understand she's from the partners and that's where the country language is used. It would be nice, however, if it were also for cities and municipalities, even if the whole project is proposed, to be clear what this means, especially since it is the first time they have been confronted with such matters. Moreover, it is not clear for a number of municipalities what to do with this. I would have liked to have some more information about that.
