ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u1	Mr President, Minister, last May, a majority of MEPs finally voted for the activation of Article 7 of the Lisbon Treaty in order to launch the procedure to sanction Hungary for its persistent violations of European values. This procedure may lead Hungary to temporarily lose its right to vote at Council meetings. Indeed, the way in which refugees and migrants are treated in Hungary, the law on education that threatens the existence of the prestigious Sores University, human rights violations, the openly anti-European rhetoric of Prime Minister Viktor Orban have weighed heavily in the balance. The situation in Hungary with regard to European values is in the collimator of the Members of the European Parliament for a long time, but also of our Assembly. Minister, these are my questions. What is Belgium's position on Hungary in the Council? What follow-up will be given by the Council to this European Parliament resolution? What is the status of the draft periodic review of the rule of law of individual rights and democratic systems in European states?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u2	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, the European Commission has in recent years taken various initiatives to ensure respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights in Hungary. It has initiated several infringement proceedings against Hungary concerning controversial bills, which are still ongoing. In 2015, the Commission attacked the Hungarian asylum law. At the end of April 2017, this was the adoption of a law on foreign universities. The Hungarian government has appointed as negotiator the Deputy Secretary of State for European and American Affairs to negotiate with the governments of the countries at the headquarters of the six foreign universities outside the European Union, including the State of New York for Central European University. On 13 July 2017, the Hungarian law on non-governmental organisations with foreign support was also covered. I have personally always supported the initiatives of the European Commission, which is only fully fulfilling its role as guardian of the Treaties, and I will continue to do so. Monitoring respect for the fundamental values of the Union by all Member States is of course essential. Dialogue is, in this context and more than ever, indispensable. I plead for it to be pursued simultaneously on several levels. The Commission and Hungary have committed themselves to doing so, and I hope that this dialogue will help to address the concerns of the Commission and the European partners of which we are a part. Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union provides for sanctions for serious and persistent violations of the values of the Union by a Member State. However, the procedure referred to in Article 7 is particularly cumbersome and difficult to implement, since the other Member States need unanimity in order for sanctions to be finally adopted. I would point out here that the Commission has not acted on Hungary's safeguard mechanism for respect for fundamental rights as set out in its Communication of March 2014. The European Parliament, as you recalled, did, on 17 May, adopt a resolution on Hungary. It does not constitute a formal activation of Article 7, but it is a first step in this direction. The resolution gives Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs a mandate to draw up a specific report with a view to submitting to the plenary a reasoned proposal inviting the Council to act in accordance with Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union. Only when this reasoned proposal is adopted can the Council be formally seized. Respect for the rule of law is imperative for all Member States and we should not wait until we are faced with situations such as the one in Hungary, or in Poland, which we have already mentioned on several occasions, to ensure this. For this reason, on behalf of Belgium, I have proposed a periodic assessment of respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights in the Member States of the Union. This initiative is now supported by a significant number of Member States. At the General Affairs Council in November 2016, we, together with eleven other Member States (the Netherlands, France, Luxembourg, Germany, Italy, Greece, Portugal, Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Austria), tabled a joint document calling for a stronger dialogue on the rule of law in the European Union. The document referred to the possibility of a periodic review. While the debate in the General Affairs Council could not endorse this proposal, it did, however, show broad support, better preparation and follow-up to the Council's dialogue on the rule of law, as well as the fact that the dialogue could focus on both the situation in the Member States and on a specific subject, a particular topic. A further assessment of this dialogue is planned for 2019 and it has been clearly stated that the possibility of moving to an annual periodic assessment of the Member States will be discussed on this occasion. In the meantime, Belgium will continue to promote the proposal. I think that the events you are talking about where the Commission is intervening with regard to legislation in Hungary lead us to go in this direction. The debate that has been going on in a very complicated way with Poland for some time now should lead us to go in this direction, and the reflections I have had on the rule of law in another Member State this weekend during the referendum in Catalonia should also lead us in this direction. I hope that, in the coming years, we will be able to establish this genuine control of the rule of law in all Member States. As you know, we control budgets up to the last euro. So why not be so meticulous for the rule of law?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u3	Minister, we agree on this and we have always supported your interesting proposal to put in place a periodic review of the rule of law, which, if I understand correctly, would be postponed to 2018-2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u4	An evaluation is formally scheduled for 2019 but you can count on me to return to it regularly. There will be a debate on the rule of law again this year during the General Affairs Council and the dossier will be put on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u6	Mr Minister, you rightly want the European Union to carry out, at the Commission's initiative, regular assessments of respect for the rule of law and European standards protecting fundamental rights in the various Member States. Hungary is probably the least well placed among those States that are in the process of developing in this respect, compared to a number of the European Union's requirements. After holding a referendum calling into question refugee quotas between Member States, building a new anti-migrant wall at its borders, criminalising simply entering Hungarian territory or banning the financing of Hungarian universities by other Western states, Mr Orban's government is organising a new anti-European consultation. Just a few days after the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the European Union in Rome, the Hungarian Prime Minister launched a national consultation entitled "Let's stop Brussels", with six questions focusing on the issue of immigration. Among these questions were: "What should Hungary do when, despite a recent series of terrorist attacks in Europe, Brussels wants to force it to allow illegal migrants to enter?" In 2015, a similar national consultation on immigration and terrorism had been widely criticized, in particular by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which saw it as a risk of increasing xenophobia in the country. As European Commissioner for Migration and the Interior, Dimitris Avramopoulos, pointed out on the occasion of his visit to Budapest on 28 March: "There can be no à la carte solidarity within the European Union." Finally, I would like to recall that our Assembly voted on 26 January 2012 a resolution which, inter alia, called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs – a position that you already held at that time – to report periodically to the House on the progress of the measures taken by the European Commission and the European Council to ensure compliance with the European Treaties. The resolution also called on the European Commission to carry out an in-depth review and analysis of the laws adopted or to be adopted by Hungary in order to verify their compliance with the acquis communautaire, while specifying that, if, following this in-depth, concerted analysis, violations of the letter and spirit of the European Treaties were to be found, the Belgian Government should support the possibility of implementing the sanctions provided for in Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union with the European Commission and the European Council. In view of the repeated initiatives of the Hungarian Government to question certain Community or Union achievements, the recommendations of this proposal seem to me to be more relevant than ever. So can the Minister inform me of the progress made in the process of assessing the rule of law in the 28 Member States, which you have proposed to the various European bodies for more than a year and which, as you confirmed in plenary on 16 March, was only joined by half of the Member States? Is there today a more widely shared will in relation to your very interesting initiative? What is the evolution of the measures taken by the European Commission to enforce the European Treaties by the Hungarian government? What is the position of the Union and Belgium in particular with regard to the consultation I mentioned in my introductory statement? What is the status of the infringement procedure launched by the European Commission on 17 May against Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic for refusing to take part in the reception of asylum seekers in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u7	Mr Maingain, I will not take up all the points raised earlier in reply to Mr Blanchart's question. Indeed, the Commission has initiated several proceedings against Hungary (in 2015, the Asylum Act; in 2017, the Foreign Universities Act, which was the subject of a procedure; again in 2017, the Law on Non-Governmental Organisations with Foreign Financial Support). Belgium has always supported the Commission's actions in its role as guardian of the Treaties. However, with regard to Hungary, the Commission has not acted on the safeguard mechanism for respect for fundamental rights provided for in its Communication of March 2014. The Article 7 procedure is a very cumbersome procedure which may lead to sanctions but which requires the unanimity of States in order to initiate the mechanism. On 17 May the European Parliament adopted a resolution on Hungary, but this cannot be regarded as a formal activation of Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union. It will be necessary to wait until a resolution is submitted to the plenary session to see whether Parliament intends to implement Article 7, which would formally refer the matter to the Council. So we are in the process. As your lapsus reveals, as far as Poland is concerned, the procedure continues. We must realize that dialogue is very difficult. At the last General Affairs Council, the exchange between the Poles and the Commission was complicated. There are exchanges in writing but no direct meetings have been organised. Like others, we have argued that such meetings should take place because it is debates on the courts that are particularly concerned. As far as the mechanism is concerned, I was proposing last year to move forward in this direction and we were supported in November 2016 by 11 other Member States. We planned a further assessment of this dialogue in 2019, stating that a real annual assessment of the Member States could be made. We will have another discussion before the end of the year in the General Affairs Council on a topic of the rule of law. I will return to my proposal on this occasion. I would just like to point out, as I did earlier in my reply to Mr Blanchart, that the events in Catalonia encourage an analysis of respect for the rule of law in all Member States. This is not just about respecting the constitutional order. This also concerns the proportionate use of law enforcement. Some elements could be discussed. We have been largely joined by the European Parliament as there has been a meeting with its various groups that are positive about the proposal. Even if Parliament was, as is being discussed, putting in place a monitoring tool for the rule of law, the Council should also assume its responsibility in that regard. As I said earlier, there is no reason to examine the annual budgets of the Member States up to the last euro and not to do such a hard work on respect for the rule of law once we have entered the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u8	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer. I agree with him and congratulate him on the initiatives he is taking to obtain this assessment of respect for the rule of law in each Member State of the European Union. It's a great initiative of our diplomacy. It must be stressed even when we sit in the opposition because I believe that this honours the conception that we have always had in a very shared way among all the parties that are committed to the construction of Europe, namely to have a leading role in this requirement of respect for the rule of law. Minister, today you have been able to move this forward with a number of states. One can guess the reluctance of those who have not yet joined you and one can fear that there will not be the capacity of one day to have unanimity to implement certain procedures, even if one can hope to progress. It can therefore be assumed that the States involved may not participate in the required unanimity. As a result, there is a risk of long-term blockage. It may be necessary to imagine, perhaps in the context of new processes, how more stringent procedures can be put in place at a shorter time. It is a work of yet another magnitude, but it is indispensable if we are to strengthen our European project as we have always defended it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u9	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of the Uighur minority in China. Indeed, in the name of the fight against terrorism, the Chinese government seems to be stepping up the crackdown on this predominantly Muslim minority. With this in mind, the Chinese authorities have adopted a new law prohibiting a whole series of Muslim names for newborns in Xinjiang province. The list of first names is contained in a document entitled "List of names banned for ethnic minorities". Parents will no longer be able to name their children Mohammed, Saddam or Medina, under the penalty that the children concerned will be denied the Hukou, a passport that gives access to care services and education. This text is far from being the first infringement of minority rights. Last month, the authorities had banned the wearing of beards considered abnormal for men and the wearing of the Islamic veil for women. According to this law, staff at stations or airports are entitled to deny access to any female offender. Minister, what information do you have about the situation of this minority and their rights in China? Is this topic addressed in our bilateral relations with that country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u10	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, we are well aware of the situation of the Uighur minority in China. Not to be confused with the Rohingya in other dramatic situations! I have been informed of the latest laws adopted by the regional authorities in Xinjiang province, which appear to lead to more restrictive measures. A number of religious, Islamic, Buddhist and Christian activities have been banned and there has been an intensification of controls targeting the entire population. My services are following the situation with vigilance, in cooperation with the European Union and other countries in the same direction. In the past, the European Union and Belgium have not hesitated to discuss the situation of human rights and minority rights with the Chinese authorities. In my discussions with members of the Chinese government, I also had the opportunity to talk about it at the highest level. We will continue to stress the need for China to fulfil its international commitments. The fight against terrorism does not in itself constitute a derogation from its obligations. More recently, the European Union called on China, during its intervention at the March 2017 session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, to respect cultural diversity and freedom of religion, particularly in Tibet and Xinjiang. During the 35th EU-China human rights dialogue held in Brussels on 22 and 23 June, the situation of minorities in China was also discussed. I can confirm that we will continue to monitor this situation and to intervene with the Chinese authorities, either bilaterally or through the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope so because these policies are flagrant violations of international rules of the right and freedom to believe and express themselves. However, we seem to be discreet about this repression. I really urge you to continue along this path and denounce these massive repressive policies under the pretext of fighting terrorism. The oppression of Muslim minorities is an instrumentalization of the minority issue in general. Minorities are geopolitical levers that allow the destabilization of States. The creation of scapegoats is well known and, in this case, the Muslim minority suffers increasingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u12	Minister, in Bangladesh, dozens of workers and trade union leaders in the garment industry have faced arbitrary and patently manufactured criminal prosecutions, as they are unjustly accused of having organized strikes in December 2016 to obtain wage increases. For them, strikes are often the only way to make their grievances known, partly because the government and local employers prevent union organizers and workers from unionizing. As a result, they are denied the right to bargain collectively with their employers and formal channels to respond to their complaints. These arbitrary arrests, which appear to be carried out by the Bangladeshi police, continue to increase. The number of official arrests has increased to 34 since last February. Some factories have also reportedly retaliated by dismissing or suspending approximately 1,500 workers. These abuse of authority to threaten anyone from arrest and arrest without warrant derogates from the instructions of the High Court of Bangladesh. Minister, what are the opportunities for dialogue with this country? Does Belgian diplomacy urge the Bangladeshi authorities to respect the rights of workers and trade union representatives? Voluntary commitments in the codes of conduct for clothing brands made in Bangladesh, such as H&M, C&A, Primark and others, seem ineffective in putting an end to factory reprisals against trade unions. At national or even European level, where is the adoption of a truly binding business and human rights plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u13	Mr Blanchart, at my meeting with Bangladesh's Minister of Justice in Brussels on 10 May, I raised this specific issue. I have told him not only of my concern, but also of the concern of Belgian civil society. He assured me that Bangladesh was sensitive to this issue, as well as to international criticism, and that legislative initiatives were under way to address it and ensure that workers' rights were respected in all circumstances. Subsequently, this issue was discussed by me, who discussed it with the Ambassador of Bangladesh on 12 June. In this context, our country is part of the new European human rights strategy that has just been adopted. The Union holds annual consultations on good governance and human rights with Bangladesh. She held her last consultation on December 20, 2016. The issue of social rights was discussed in depth. The Commission has recently communicated its views on the situation of labour law in the country, in particular with regard to freedom of association. It reiterated its demand for urgent and resolute action by local authorities. Together with the Commission and its European partners, Belgium will continue to engage with and support Bangladesh, including through the Sustainability Pact, the last follow-up meeting of which took place in Dhaka in the spring. Belgium is also part of the European Union's approach to establishing a strengthened dialogue within the framework of the "Everything but Arms" programme. This enhanced dialogue maintains engagement with the Bangladeshi authorities while closely monitoring the situation and sending warnings on respect for human rights and social rights as essential elements for benefiting from trade preferences. A priority within the framework of the European Union Action Plan for Human Rights and Democracy for the period 2015-2019 is the commitment made by each Member State to draw up a national action plan for business and human rights. For Belgium, this plan was adopted by the government in July 2017. Belgium and the European Union also share their expertise and best practices in this area with other countries. We are taking initiatives internally, of course, to move in that direction. But as I have told you, we are in direct contact with the Bangladesh authorities to ensure that domestic legislation is also moving forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u14	Minister, thank you. We don't talk about it much, or we don't talk about it enough, but this is really urgent and important. With 4.5 million employees in the sector, 80 per cent of whom are women, Bangladesh is the second largest producer of textiles and clothing in the world, after China. Bangladesh has become the second ready-to-wear workshop for major global brands. That thousands of strikers are arrested and ill-treated is not tolerable, knowing that we ourselves are wearing clothes made in this country every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u15	Mr President, Minister, we have had the opportunity to discuss the alleged persecution of LGBTI people in Chechnya. I am aware of the steps that have already been taken by our country in this regard. On 27 April the motion for a resolution tabled by my group was adopted unanimously. This proposal calls on the government to make full use of all diplomatic means to condemn these violations, if they prove to be correct, to urge the Russian authorities to investigate these allegations and to stop any discriminatory practices based on sexual orientation. Minister, what follow-up do you intend to give to the various initiatives already taken, both bilaterally and multilaterally, as well as to the House's resolution on this matter? In the face of these persecutions, what is the overall European position that has been adopted in relation to the Russian authorities? Has an investigation been initiated into these alleged abuses?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u16	Mrs. Pehlivan is absent. Mr Blanchart, have you included your second question on the same subject? You have the floor. Then it will be Mr. Flahaux's turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u17	So what about the follow-up to the Council of Europe resolution calling in particular for the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights? There you go.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u18	Minister, since last July, Ramzan Kadyrov maintains that the children of the couples who remain together are less likely to become radicalised. The Chechen authorities are therefore instructed to return divorced or separated women to their husbands. According to The Independent, separations and divorces are reported to the Committee for the Harmonization of Marital and Family Relations through a confidential line of delation. The authorities then summon the persons concerned to discuss the reasons for their separation, before considering them insufficient and asking the couple to get back together. The State claims that the programme is successful, already showing 948 reformed couples. According to a resident of Grozny, the Chechen capital, refusing, it is against not only religious institutions and traditions, but also what Ramzan Kadyrov wants. BBC reporters testify that this is simply violence against people. Women are particularly targeted and victims of these "forced remarriages". Minister, once again Kadyrov is maliceful. Everyone remembers their rallies against homosexuals. I had the honour of defending a motion for a resolution on violence against LGBTQI people in Chechnya. It was adopted in plenary. Minister, have you confirmed such a policy of forced remarriage in Chechnya? In the event that this policy is confirmed, what actions do you intend to take at all levels to denounce this inhuman family policy in Chechnya? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u19	Mr President, Mr Minister, I would obviously like to join the statements made by my colleagues who have referred to the practices of power in the Chechen Republic which are of particular concern with regard to the status and protection of the rights of homosexuals. On 27 April, we adopted a motion for a resolution to condemn human rights violations in this part of the Caucasus in the strongest possible terms. The proposal also called on your Government to contact the Russian authorities without delay in order to request them to conduct independent investigations into allegations of abductions and homicides of homosexuals in their country, on account of actual or presumed homosexuality of persons and to ensure that any person who could be found guilty or accomplice in such crimes is brought to justice, to immediately cease any legislation or practice that would legitimize discrimination based on sexual orientation, in accordance with international human rights standards. Mr Minister, can you tell us what steps have been taken by the Belgian Government to implement the resolution adopted by Parliament in order to make the Russian authorities aware of the situation in Chechnya and what the results are?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u20	Mr Minister, my question is in the same vein, and of course my concern. We have here adopted the resolution which calls, among other things, for an international investigation into the situation in Chechnya. That investigation would still not have taken place until today. The situation would have deteriorated again, as Mr Flahaux has just pointed out. LGBTIS would be re-traced and prosecuted. I have similar questions to those of my fellow Members. Can you explain the current state of affairs? The investigation didn't take place. What is Russia's attitude to this? The international community is questioning this. Have you already raised the issue of the absence of an international investigation with the authorities? If so, what was their position? If not, can you record this as soon as possible? Was this situation also raised within the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be surprised to hear that the situation of LGBTI people in Russia has not improved in recent years. Moreover, it is particularly problematic in Chechnya. While violations of human rights and LGBTI people are less massive and numerous than they were before Novaya Gazeta's disclosures in the spring, the information available to us indicates that members of this community remain victims of constant and repeated violations of their rights, notwithstanding the large and numerous protests on the international scene. We keep this information from our regular contacts with civil society organizations and human rights defenders working specifically on the issue. It's hard for me to go into more detail. As the collection of this information is very sensitive, we also need to protect our sources in this area. We have also heard your calls to use all diplomatic levers to address the issue and I can assure you that we have been particularly active on this issue. As I have already indicated in previous replies on the same subject, in my press release of 11 April and in my subsequent statements, I reiterated our position that human rights are universal and indivisible. I have also made it clear that our country wants an investigation to be opened, that the perpetrators identified are prosecuted and that the victims are entitled to just reparations. At the international level, Belgium has thus pushed for a declaration at the level of the Equal Rights Coalition, with which we have associated ourselves. In addition to these public statements, clear messages have also been sent to the Russian authorities in Moscow, both at EU level and bilaterally. During my meeting with the Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on 12 July, I made our concerns and expectations clear. Our embassy has requested an appointment to discuss the issue with Russian human rights Commissioner Moskalkova. Mrs Moskalkova replied to our request for an interview which was not immediately possible because of an overcrowded agenda. Of course, we will continue to press for a discussion, not only with my colleague Sergei Lavrov but also with the specific Russian Commissioner for Human Rights. The response we receive from the authorities, as well as from our EU colleagues, is in line with what is said by the public. The competent authorities are still waiting for individual complaints and a preliminary investigation has already been opened a few months ago. Of course, this reaction is far from satisfactory. In our bilateral contacts, we will continue to support our line on this issue, namely that we expect the Russian authorities to honour their international human rights commitments, that human rights are universal and indivisible, and that discrimination, violence, speech and hate against people because of their sexual orientation are absolutely unacceptable to us. We are currently consulting with our EU colleagues and working out further actions to encourage the Russian authorities to tackle the problem in a structural manner. It looks at actions under the various mechanisms of the UN, the Council of Europe and also the OSCE. Civil society representatives, and in particular organisations specifically working on the protection of the human rights of LGBTI individuals in the Russian Federation, are also involved. The reception of victims is also an important part of these discussions. In this context, a number of victims have already flown to Member States of the European Union, including our country. For obvious reasons linked to the privacy and security of the persons concerned, I cannot go into this further. Developing a solution to the distressing situation of LGBTI people in Chechnya is not an obvious exercise because of the sensitivity of this issue to our Russian interlocutors but also because we want to ensure that our actions and public statements do not endanger human rights defenders. In any case, it will be a long-term work. We also heard about forced remarriages from Chechnya. If these marriages and the information about them are proven, they are worrying. This information will be discussed in Moscow as part of the meetings of our human rights advisers. It will be an opportunity to have these allegations verified on the one hand, to measure their extent and, if necessary, to develop action towards the Russian authorities in an attempt to put an end to this worrying practice, as you have recalled, Mr Flahaux. In the face of numerous reports of human rights violations in Chechnya, our consultations with our partners and civil society will focus not only on the situation of LGBTI people, but more generally on how to ensure that the Russian Federation implements its international human rights obligations throughout its territory, including in the North Caucasus. I can confirm that we will continue to do so. I hope that, at meetings between parliamentarians of our country and parliamentarians of the Russian Federation, these problems are also raised on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u22	What to say? I can only encourage you, Minister, to continue to carry out all these actions and to organise a follow-up on this issue. It is indeed a long-term work. Indeed, the security problems you have mentioned make things more complex. In the meantime, there is a real feeling that Chechnya is complacent with the most complete impunity. It's very sad and it's really about denouncing and continuing to denounce.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u23	I would tend to say, "Thank you, Minister, because you make us proud of our Belgium." I find that we are playing a leading role in this area even though, unfortunately, we do not have the power of a large country. And unfortunately, sometimes the big countries don't react as strongly as we do. However, this is important because Russia is part of the Council of Europe. One aspect of the Council of Europe is still human rights. So it's really essential. I hope, like you, that the parliamentarians who will participate in the meetings in Saint Petersburg on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Russian revolutions will not fail to insist on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u24	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. As he pointed out, it is certainly with the authorities of the Russian Federation that initiatives must be taken to influence the course of things. They have a fairly direct authority over those of Chechnya. We already know that in Russia the fate of homosexuals is not very respected and certainly not always worthy of trust in the head of the Russian authorities, who have some complacency with the movements of the far right who manifest unheard-of violence towards these people in Russia itself. It is a long-term task and Mr Flahaux is right to recall the role that the Council of Europe can also play. I hope that the Belgian delegation in the Council of Europe will take some initiative in this regard. I thank him in advance. I'm not, but others are. Perhaps new figures will be able to play an objective role in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. I do hear that all existing levers are being used to clarify the problem. However, we must not deny that the situation in Chechnya remains truly worrying. An international investigation must be carried out. Nor can we accept that the Russian authorities have still not condemned it. I believe that it is indeed necessary that we continue to use all possible channels, both bilaterally and in international fora, to denounce the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u26	My question was to the Prime Minister, but he did not have the guts to answer, or he did not answer for other reasons. The press has repeatedly pointed out the conflicts of interest that may arise from the dual role of Mrs Alexia Bertrand, who, on the one hand is the chief of staff of Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders, you in this case, and, on the other hand, is the administrator of the holding company Ackermans & van Haaren (AvH), of which she is also a member of the family shareholding, being the daughter of Fabienne Ackermans and President Luc Bertrand. Thus, La Libre Belgique of 5 September 2015, stressed, shortly after the appointment of Mr Reynders' chief of staff: "This situation raises the question of a potential conflict of interests, while Alexia Bertrand is called upon to negotiate at the highest level the economic reforms of the federal government". The same article recalls that previously, Alexia Bertrand was already a member of this firm in another position, and that: "This situation had already been highlighted by some newspapers when the previous Di Rupo government was tackling bank reform in 2013. Behind the scenes, some were already wondering about Alexia Bertrand's position as a high-flying lawyer and, above all, a negotiator for Reynders." On 5 September 2015, L'Echo reported that Minister Reynders, on the return of a mission to Peru and Colombia, had made a detour by Panama to organize, at the Belgian ambassador's residence, a reception for the two active dredging companies on the canal, Jan De Nul and DEME, a subsidiary of AvH, in order to resolve the disputes arising from their competitive position. The Vifdu 4 May 2017 asked: "Does Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders have his hands tied in the delicate negotiations targeting wind at sea? The cumulation of his chief of staff Alexia Bertrand forced him at best to an uncomfortable passivity whose francophones, faced with Flemish ambitions, would have gone well". The activities of DEME, a subsidiary of AvH, are also involved. I quote Le Vif from May 12, 2017. The magazine goes back to another issue that still involves DEME, that of Saudi Arabia, where the society, which already has interests, is looking at the vast modernization of port infrastructures. "It may be wondered to what extent the cabinet's political manoeuvre, aimed at diverting Saudi Arabia's debate on the arms industry, has not been motivated by the concern to preserve other sectors that have links with Saudi Arabia." In this question, I address the Prime Minister: "I interviewed Minister Reynders at the May 11, 2017 plenary session." He repeated to me the inflexible response given to the media: on his instructions, his collaborators made known potential conflicts of interest and were obviously not in charge of cases where such conflicts might arise. However, such a requirement can be questioned if the minister's own practice when he was in the finance business is taken into account. In the years 2000-2001, while fighting against the European decision to abolish the tax system of the coordination centres, he himself was administrator of Carmeuse Coordination Centre, being appointed to its Board of Directors on 28 May 1999 and resigning on 26 October 2001. Bearing in mind that under the Royal Decree of 19 July 2001, the Prime Minister is responsible for monitoring the composition of strategic cells, policy cells and secretariats, has he reviewed and validated the appointment of Ms.Alexia Bertrand as Chief of Staff of Didier Reynders in 2015? Is this function not incompatible with that of AvH holding administrator? Is there a list of files for which Ms. Bertrand has reported a conflict of interest since 2015? Given the many sectors in which AvH has interests, can one reasonably believe that it would declare a conflict of interest and refrain from any intervention whenever one of these sectors is involved in an executive discussion? I was also asking the Prime Minister about Mrs Bertrand's report to tax havens. On the one hand, downstream of AvH, we find, by consulting its annual accounts, that the holding company holds 22 subsidiaries in tax havens: 3 in Cyprus, 3 in Hong Kong, 12 in Luxembourg, 1 in Nigeria, 2 in Oman and 1 in Switzerland. On the other hand, upstream of AvH, it appears that the chain of control of the holding by the companies of the Bertrand-Ackermans family also passes through tax havens. Indeed, the shareholder family has set up a control chain of AvH which contains six successive links, several of which are located in tax havens specialized in such structures: Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Curaçao (former Dutch Antilles). Here is this chain of control: 33% of AvH's capital is held by SA Scaldis Invest (Belgium), itself owned by SA Belfimas (Belgium), itself owned by SA Cellfloor (Luxembourg), itself owned by Apodia International Holding BV (Netherlands), itself owned by SA Palamount (Curaçao), itself owned by Stichting Administratiekantoor Het Torentje. Here are my questions. While, as a result of repeated scandals (OffshoreLeaks, SwissLeaks, LuxLeaks, Panama Papers, BahamasLeaks, Malta Files), the whole world is mobilizing to fight tax evasion through tax havens, do you find it acceptable that the chief of staff of a Deputy Prime Minister of your government be at the heart of these mechanisms for the use of offshore companies? Then, do you intend to take steps to put an end to this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u27	Mr President, I am pleased to have the opportunity to meet Mr. Van Hees for his questions, I think, which date back to May. You're nice to come and put them down in the middle of the same year! Your main question is about a listed company that publishes legal information about its holdings and the chain of control. This information is public and it is not for me to comment on it. You then ask me about the terms of office of the deputy prime minister's chief of staff. As I have already indicated, these are published on the website of the Belgian Monitor and deposited with the Court of Auditors. I have already explained to you the arrangements that are made to manage conflicts of interest, the first being the publicity of these and therefore their knowledge, as has already been done in cases such as wind energy in the North Sea, the files involving the company DEME or the bank tax file. And since you're telling me about the Prime Minister, you'll also give my regards to your family.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u28	A little clarification: these are the three cases where your chief of staff marked a conflict of interest? There's no other one? Is that how I have to understand your answer? I take note of your very succinct answer, which does not surprise me and which corresponds to what you have already answered in the past. That is why I was trying to speak to the Prime Minister, because speaking to you was not very helpful; I have the confirmation now. In any case, we note that these conflicts of interest are manifest but you assume them. Clearly, the rest of the government, or in any case the Prime Minister, refrain from commenting on these conflicts of interest revealed in the press. This publicity clearly shows that the matter has been reported and denounced on numerous occasions. Obviously, you assume, but this does not seem to be the case of the Prime Minister, since he does not dare to come and answer the questions I had asked him himself. However, this is part of his competence, since, as I note in my question, he is the one who reviews the composition of strategic cells. He therefore endorsed this, but he dared not come to defend him before Parliament. I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u29	Mr. Chairman, Minister, we will try to change the context. The Foreign Ministers of the 47 member states of the Council of Europe met on 19 May in Nicosia to discuss several topics, including once again Turkey. President Erdogan was received in Brussels at the end of May by the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, and the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker. In addition, the Czech Foreign Minister presented his priorities in Prague at the end of May under the chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, including the strengthening of the rule of law and the promotion of effective mechanisms for the protection of human rights. In this context, how does Belgian diplomacy's position on the situation in Turkey evolve, both bilaterally and in the various European forums in which we sit? What changes in the position expected in the coming weeks vis-à-vis Turkey on the part of the European Union? Finally, what about the requests made to the Committee of Ministers by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on Turkey?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u30	Mr Blanchart, I think you have the wrong question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u31	Indeed, this question was overturned. I'm sorry I read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u32	We are on the issue of the Istanbul Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u33	Mr. President, please excuse me for this mistake. I'd have practiced for the next one! Minister, the Istanbul Convention was drafted in 2011 by the Council of Europe. It was six years later last May that the European Union signed the Istanbul Convention to Prevent and Combat Violence against Women. As a reminder, Belgium ratified this Convention more than a year ago. Once ratified, it must be translated into national legislation. Any violation under the Convention shall be "subject to effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions". To ensure its implementation, a group of experts will be mobilised. It is known as GREVIO. Mr Minister, what, in your opinion, are the consequences of this new act on the part of the European Union on the state of play and the establishment of a coherent European system within the framework of this Convention? Can you say more about the follow-up by GREVIO experts from countries that have ratified the Convention? Have sanctions already been envisaged? For the time being, not all members of the European Union have yet ratified the Convention. Can you give us more details on the reasons for these non-ratifications?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u34	Mr Blanchart, by signing the Istanbul Convention, the European Union reiterates its commitment to combating violence against women in its territory and around the world and intends to strengthen the existing legal framework and its capacity for action. This further progress must have a positive impact on those who are likely to be subjected to gender-based violence and discrimination. All the Member States of the European Union have already signed the Convention. The fact that the European Union also adheres to it will ensure complementarity between national and European levels and strengthen the European Union's capacity to play a more effective role in international fora. The question on the work of the expert group on combating violence against women and domestic violence GREVIO falls within the competence of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. I therefore invite you to question him shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u36	Mr President, Minister, at the end of June you met with the Croatian Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Serbian President during a two-day official visit to Croatia and Serbia. Minister, can you give us a comeback from this mission? What are the lessons you learn from your different contacts? Serbia is currently in full negotiation on the chapter on fundamental freedoms and the treatment of minorities as part of its accession to the European Union. Did you address this chapter? What progress has been made in this area, particularly in the fight against discrimination in that country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u37	Mijnheer de voorzitter, Mr Blanchart, I actually visited Zagreb on 26 June, where I met Prime Minister Plenković and Minister for Foreign Affairs Pejčinović Burić. That same evening, I went to Belgrade to attend the closing of a regional conference with our ambassadors in charge of the Western Balkans. On 27 June, I held talks in Belgrade with President Vučić, Prime Minister-designate Ana Brnabić, my counterpart Mr Dačić and the Minister for European Affairs, Ms Joksimović. My interviews in Croatia are part of the many visits I make or the visits I receive in Brussels from people from the Balkan region. In this case, we had a discussion on the initiation of the Brexit procedure. I spoke with my Croatian interlocutors about my initiative, of which we spoke earlier, "the rule of law in the European Union" of February 2016; the twenty-fifth anniversary of our bilateral relations, as well as the situation in the region, for example the border dispute with Slovenia and relations with other Balkan countries. I would point out to you that on this occasion we referred to the changes in the border with the Netherlands which we are negotiating peacefully and which you have adopted in committee. We have again talked about Russia, Turkey and Ukraine, about migration, the posting of workers within the European Union and social dumping - you know that we are actively working on the revision of the directive on this matter - about the future of the European Union and enlargement. We have reviewed the issues on the agenda in the European debate today. These bilateral direct contacts remain, in my view, paramount, to try to see on which topics it is possible to have common approaches or to move forward a case and, sometimes, to better understand the hesitations or oppositions that may exist in one of the Member States. My visit to Serbia took place in the context of a government reshuffle following President Vučić's assumption of office, which I had the opportunity to congratulate. I asked my interlocutors for Serbia's progress on reform and European integration. For my part, I have reaffirmed our country's support for Serbia's accession to the European Union, provided that the necessary conditions are met. I also discussed our bilateral relations and the regional situation. During my various interviews, I was able to see that reconciliation remains a real issue. I therefore called for greater regional cooperation in the economic field in order to lay the foundations for greater political cooperation. As I do in other places, I have cited Benelux as a model of regional integration and assured my interlocutors of our readiness to bring our expertise to the region. In the context of the accession negotiations, Chapters XXIII and XXIV generally cover the question of the rule of law, including with regard to fundamental freedoms and the rights of minorities. Serbia's accession process is conditioned by progress in these crucial chapters. I had the opportunity to remind my Serbian interlocutors of the importance our country attaches to the implementation of conditionality. With regard to minorities, Serbia's progress is assessed on the basis of a specific action plan. In its latest report, the European Commission notes that the legislative framework on minority rights is in place, but that its implementation has not yet reached a satisfactory level throughout the country. We will therefore follow developments, while continuing our contacts with these partners - as we do with others in or outside the European Union - either through on-the-spot visits or through meetings in Brussels. We are indeed fortunate to receive a very large number of our counterparts during bilateral visits or meetings with the European Union or NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u38	Minister, did you find Mr. Vučić receptive to your recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u39	Not only was the contact warm, but the president was receptive to certain requests. However, as the Commission also notes, some legislative progress is clear, but its implementation on the ground is much more complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u40	These democrats come from far away. Training is therefore a prerequisite for their development. Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Grovonius' 19732 has been postponed. The next item is the joint questions by Mrs Caprasse, Mr Van Hees, Mrs Grovonius and myself (Questions 19740, 19969, 20257, 20447 and 20556) on the opinion requested from the European Court of Justice in connection with the procedure for ratifying CETA. I propose that I turn my question into a written question, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u42	Mr President, Mr Minister, at the end of April, an OSCE member, an American, was killed in the explosion of a mine at a patrol in eastern Ukraine. Ukraine has long called for the dispatch of peacekeeping forces to eastern Ukraine. Moscow has so far opposed this idea. President Putin finally expressed his support in September for the deployment of peacekeeping forces to ensure the security of OSCE observers in eastern Ukraine. In Kiev, the Russian President's statements were met with skepticism. Minister, clashes still occur regularly despite the signing of the Minsk agreements in 2015 and regular truce announcements. Can you take stock of the situation today? In view of this new situation, can you tell us more about the development of the situation between the European Union, Ukraine and Russia? Ensuring the security of the OSCE mission is a central issue. How does our country position itself on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u43	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, the safety of the monitors of the special observation mission in Ukraine is a priority for the OSCE and the participating States. At the informal meeting of OSCE Foreign Ministers on 11 July in Mauerbach, I stressed this point, as well as the need to report when incidents occur against monitors. However, they are being intimidated, and the number of them is constantly increasing. On 23 April, a member of the special observation mission even died as a result of the explosion of a mine. This fatal incident led to the establishment of observation restrictions until more specific information was given to the special observation mission in Ukraine and to the Ceasefire Monitoring and Coordination Commission on mine-contaminated areas. The two Belgian monitors still present in the mission are subject to the same restrictions. For the time being, the OSCE has not, to our knowledge, considered sending police officers to protect the mission's monitors. The discussion on a possible police mission to Ukraine is being considered in another context, including, for the time being, hypothetical local elections in certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. The cease-fire that came into effect on 25 August last seems to be holding and the longest period of calm has been observed in Donbass since the beginning of the observations. Tension remains present and the situation remains potentially volatile. The presence of heavy weapons along the front line, in violation of the Minsk agreements, is still a major concern. In addition, the disengagement of troops in the areas planned for this purpose is incomplete. Belgium fully subscribes to the policy of the European Union, which requires the full implementation of the Minsk agreements as a condition for lifting sanctions and normalising relations with Russia. I also repeated this important point in my speech in Mauerbach. The negotiations in "Normandie format" are, however, bogged down. In the absence of progress in the implementation of the Minsk agreements, the European Union extended until 31 July 2018 economic sanctions against Russia and until 23 June 2018 sanctions in connection with Crimea. My services and I regularly call on all parties to honour their commitments in the implementation of the Minsk agreements during contacts with the Ukrainian and Russian authorities. During my meeting with my Russian colleague Sergei Lavrov on 12 July, I stressed at length the need to achieve a lasting resolution of the conflict in Ukraine and to ensure the security of the observers of the OSCE mission and their access to the entire conflict zone. The draft United Nations resolution submitted by Russia for the deployment of a peacekeeping mission in Donbass is still under consideration. The proposal to limit the mission to the contact line in particular, however, seems problematic and faces Ukraine's objections. I had the opportunity, particularly in the week of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, to discuss this issue with my Ukrainian colleague Pavlo Klimkin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u44	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answers. We are, it seems, changing again in a context of frozen conflict, which is still likely to last many years if Russia essentially does not change its approach to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u45	Minister, talks are continuing in Switzerland to reach a comprehensive settlement of the conflict that has divided the island of Cyprus for more than 40 years. They take place in the presence of Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades, Turkish Cypriot leader Mustafa Akinci and representatives of the island's security guarantors, Greece, Turkey and Great Britain, who retain the right to intervene militarily. The Secretary-General of the United Nations believes that the resumption of these talks "is a historic opportunity" to put an end to the conflict and reunify the island. As a reminder, the previous negotiations held in January in Switzerland had generally failed. Mr Minister, what is Belgium's position and that of the European Union on the current situation on the island? What feedback have you received from these last talks as well as from the state of progress in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u46	Mr Blanchart, the conference on Cyprus was organised from 28 June to 7 July in Crans-Montana under the auspices of UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. The conference was organised at two levels: a negotiation between the leaders of the two Cypriot communities covering all the internal aspects of the Cyprus question: on the one hand, governance, institutions and power-sharing, but also territorial issues, property regime, European and economic issues, and on the other, a multilateral part devoted to the problem of the future security architecture on the island, bringing together Cypriot leaders and the foreign ministers of the three guarantor powers, namely Greece, Turkey and the United Kingdom, with the EU as observer. Despite an active and proactive personal commitment on the part of the Secretary-General, the conference did not reach agreement on the key elements of a solution. On the night of July 6-7, the Secretary-General was obliged to observe the failure of the talks. Mr Antonio Guterres stated that, despite the commitment of all delegations and the progress achieved, divergent positions could not be reconciled in a number of areas The Secretary-General refused to attribute responsibility for failure to one of the parties while calling Crans-Montana a missed historical opportunity. With regard to the future of the reunification process, since 2004, the United Nations has had only a facilitating role in the peace process on the island of Cyprus, with the reunification process being led by both leaders. For the Secretary-General, things are clear: he believes that, as a first step, the two leaders must reflect on the causes of the failure and, in due course, will have to re-establish contact to work towards restoring a level of trust in order to allow them to address the Secretary-General jointly and ask him to resume his mission of good offices. We do not expect developments in the reunification process before the presidential elections in the Republic of Cyprus, early next year, and those in the north of the island, which are likely to take place in April 2018. In the meantime, it is important on both sides of the green line to avoid actions or declarations that would only exacerbate intra-Community tensions and create additional obstacles to a resumption of negotiations. It will also be essential to preserve the acquis of the latter so that in due course they can restart where they had been interrupted in Crans-Montana. Our colleagues in the European Union in particular, and we will try to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u47	Question No 20257 by Mr. Van der Maelen is transformed into a written question. Question No 19758 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u48	Minister, the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, one of the last countries in the world to have officially abolished slavery in 1981, had resigned to make it a crime against humanity in 2012. In August 2015, it adopted a new anti-slavery law. And yet, despite these legal advances, the main human rights organisations, known for their fight against slavery in Mauritania, denounce "the hypocrisy of the Mauritanian authorities", who seek, through the ratification of international treaties and the adoption of laws deemed incomplete, to satisfy the international community without a real desire to effectively combat slavery within the country. Minister, what are the actions taken by the various international bodies to combat human rights violations in Mauritania? Is this issue addressed in your bilateral exchanges with this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u49	Mr Blanchart, the human rights situation in Mauritania has not undergone any fundamental changes in recent months, although in the context of increased social pressure and policy, the government seems to be responding with a stronger grip on associations and civil liberties. The UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights and Extreme Poverty states in a June 2017 report on Mauritania that a large part of the population continues to live in multidimensional poverty and that discrimination and political, economic and social exclusion of Haratins and Afro-Mauritanians condemn them to poverty. With regard to the scope of civil society, he said that many groups were not allowed to exercise their rights to freedom of association. Local activists have been detained on several occasions, the best known case is that of Biram Dah Abeid, president of the initiative for the resurgence of anti-esclavagism (IRA), who, like other leaders of the movement, has been imprisoned on several occasions. While slavery had been abolished in Mauritania in 1981, some form of enslavement remained. The IRA was launched in 2008 and attempted to evolve into a political party in 2010. In 2014, Biram Dah Abeid took part in the presidential elections and won 8.67 per cent of the vote and suggested that he wanted to stand for the 2019 presidential election. On its official website, the IRA states that it "has as its objective to question and make public authorities and partners aware of the social, economic and political situation in the country. In the long term, it will have to be a platform and a real forum for expression, protest, denunciation and consultation, with a view to diagnosing the problems of citizens and proposing optimal solutions". IRA Mauritania is part of a dynamic of defending human rights, denunciation and combating injustice, particularly in its human and social dimensions. The IRA is no doubt the symbol of the anti-slavery cause best known outside the country but not the only movement fighting against practices and attitudes inherited from slavery in Mauritania. While the IRA defends a noble and just cause, it should be noted that there are allegations that it itself would show reverse racism in its statements against the ruling community in Mauritania and that it regularly holds a cleavage speech. At the last universal periodic review of the United Nations to which Mauritania had submitted at the end of 2015, Belgium had formulated several questions concerning impunity for practices inherited from slavery, the national programme for the eradication of slavery and the anti-slavery law. Our country has also made the recommendation to effectively protect the freedom of expression of civil society without hindrance, intimidation, harassment or risk of conviction. The European delegation in Mauritania also continued to monitor the situation closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u50	Minister, is there currently a European delegation in Mauritania? Indeed, they have recently turned back the Americans. I read in the press in September that the U.S. delegation had been rejected by the Mauritanian authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u51	Yes, there's a delegation there. When we say European delegation, it is the European representation in Mauritania.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u52	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament 19834 and No. Mr Stéphane Crusnière, No 20535. 20104 by Ms Fatma Pehlivan, No. 20578 of myself and No. Mr Benoit Hellings' 20657 questions were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 19857 by myself and No. 19967 by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius are also translated into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u54	Minister, the Golan Heights is a territory claimed by Syria, but occupied and administered by Israel since the Six-Day War in 1967. On 1 July, Israel struck a Syrian army position after two projectiles from Syrian territory fell on the Golan Heights occupied by the Hebrew State. Israeli forces claim to have targeted the Syrian battery at the origin of the fire, without specifying whether its replica was ground or aerial. Earlier that day, the Israeli army warned the Damascus regime after the fall of two projectiles from Syria that had landed, apparently unintentionally, on the Israeli-occupied part of the Golan Heights. Fortunately, the projectiles had not done any damage or casualties. The Syrian army claims that they were fired during internal fighting in Syria. Minister, can you recall, under international law, which State can legally claim the Golan Heights? Is this exchange of fire likely to revive a new wave of tension between the two countries, which really do not need it? What are the potential mediators? Has the European Union adopted a common position on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u55	Mr. Flahaux, according to international law, the Golan has been occupied by Israel since June 1967 and therefore does not, in any case, fall under its sovereignty. This means that, within the framework of a peace agreement, the Golan should be returned to Syria, in accordance with Security Council resolution 242 and the numerous other resolutions that have reiterated that principle. Belgium's position on this issue is in every respect consistent with that of the European Union and the international community. It will not recognize any changes to the pre-1967 boundaries other than those which may have been agreed by the parties in the context of a peace agreement. No country has been entrusted with an official task of mediation between Syria and Israel, which, I would remind you, has never signed a peace treaty. Nevertheless, there is the United Nations force established by Security Council Resolution 350 of 1974 to observe disengagement. Its mission is to monitor compliance with the ceasefire between the two States, the disengagement of Israeli and Syrian forces and the areas of separation and arms limitation. It is to her that incidents such as those that took place in June must be reported, which Israel, moreover, has announced to have done. These incidents are obviously of concern. It is impossible to be absolutely certain that their repetition will never lead to escalation. However, the exchanges of fire in question appear to have been circumscribed. We hope that they will not happen again. I would also like to remind you that Belgium is very committed to the security of Israel. Of course, there are legitimate reasons to remain concerned about the situation in Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u56	Minister, your answer seems complete to me. Therefore, I will not reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u57	Mr President, I thought I had addressed my question to the Minister of Economy, but it was redirected to you, Minister. On Sunday, July 2, 2017, the British government announced its decision to leave the 1964 Fisheries Convention in order to regain exclusive control over fishing rights near its coast, following the Brexit vote. According to the British, the process was to be launched on Monday, July 3, 2017 and it will take two years to get out of the Convention. Minister, what will be the consequences of such a measure for Belgian fisheries? Have you officially received the announcement of the British decision to leave the Fisheries Convention? What is the position of the countries maritimely bordering Britain? Does the European Union intend to react to this unilateral decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u58	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, at present all the parts of the London Fisheries Convention are Member States of the European Union. The European Union's regulation of the common fisheries policy is a priority of this Convention. The United Kingdom communicated its decision to leave the London Fisheries Convention to Belgium on 3 July. According to this decision of the United Kingdom, the London Fisheries Convention would no longer apply after 3 July 2019. Consequently, its relations with the European Union will fall within the scope of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982, according to which the United Kingdom may exercise its rights in its exclusive economic zone. Consequently, access by Belgian vessels to British waters would depend on future agreements between the European Union and the United Kingdom. However, negotiations on future relations can only begin once the United Kingdom's exit negotiations have made sufficient progress. You will have noticed that the European Commission has announced that this is not the case at the moment. Maybe by the end of the year. We'll see about it. The European Commission has taken the initiative to bring together the Member States concerned by the London Fisheries Convention to initiate consultations on the consequences of the UK decision. We will return to this in the second phase of negotiations resulting from the Brexit decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u59	Minister, thank you. Like you, we see that the Brexit negotiations are only falling behind. In addition, they are partly conditioned by the Conservative Party Congress that is taking place for the time being, and there is a party of arms between Mr. Johnson and the Prime Minister. There will probably be consequences here too because of the slow pace of negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u60	Mr President, Minister, the Council of Europe, which brings together 47 States and whose main task is the defence of human rights, regularly accuses the Russian Government of not taking sufficient measures to combat cases of torture and other human rights violations, particularly in Chechnya. Moscow, for its part, has for years been flouting the anti-Russian position of the pan-European institution. Since April 2014, the 18 Russian deputies of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have been deprived of the right to vote as a sanction following Russia's annexation of Crimea and Russian elected officials have no longer set foot in the Strasbourg Chamber. Tensions between Moscow and the Council are permanent. Minister, the blockade seems to be complete. Nevertheless, do you consider it possible to normalise relations between Russia and the Council of Europe in the medium term? President Macron has taken some initiatives in this area. Beyond human rights, what are the main sources of friction between Russia and the Council? What were the relationships before 2014? Were they constructive? I conclude with a broad question: do you think that Europe needs Russia to prosper?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u61	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, the question of the withdrawal of the right to vote and of a series of associated rights of Members of the Russian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is complex and sensitive. Like Belgium, Russia attaches great importance to the pan-European platform for dialogue, which consists of the various institutions of the Council of Europe, including the Parliamentary Assembly. This platform has proven to be useful on many occasions in the past, and this dialogue has resulted in many legal instruments of great benefit to all 47 members of the Council. As you know, the decision to withdraw rights is taken by the other members of the Assembly. It resulted in a Russian decision not to attend the sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly since 2014. It is not my task to comment on the merits or appropriateness of these decisions on both sides, but I note that the resulting Russian absence deprives parliamentarians of a useful channel of communication and dialogue. Moreover, this also has an impact on the broader relationship between the Russian Federation and the Council. After all, the Parliamentary Assembly appoints the judges of the European Court of Human Rights as well as the Secretary-General and the Commissioner for Human Rights. Following the exclusion of its delegates, Moscow recently decided to partially suspend its contributions to the Council of Europe. As Russia is one of the largest payers, this will not fail to affect the activities of the latter and its organs. Other factors of tension still exist between Russia and the said Council, including the lack of Russian will to implement certain decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. These difficulties lead, as you say, to speculation on the future of the relationship between Russia and the Council of Europe. For my part, I am convinced that these tensions reflect the real impact that the Council has on Russia. The Council of Europe, which provides its 47 members with unique standards and mechanisms for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, has an irreplaceable moral weight. We therefore have every interest in keeping Russia within it and maintaining the channel of dialogue and exchange that we have with the Russian Federation through the Council. It is also and above all in the interests of Russian citizens whose human rights are protected and guaranteed by a series of instruments emanating from it, including, of course, the European Court of Human Rights itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u62	Minister, I share your philosophy that it is up to us to encourage Russia to push for its Westernisation and democratisation. The process was initiated by the Russians themselves during the reign of Peter the Great and Catherine II, etc. It is up to us to continue the movement. We must not forget that Russia has never, in the end, experienced any real democracy. This country experienced a beginning of democracy - if I may put it that way - at the end of the Tsar empire and subsequently fell into dictatorship until the fall of communism. Steps have been taken. It is up to us to accompany the Russians while knowing, when necessary, to show their teeth. But, like you, I am of the opinion that excluding Russia would be a bad service to the cause we are carrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u63	Question No 19925 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u64	Minister, since 2004, the United Nations Mission MINUSTAH has been deployed in Haiti. Since Thursday, 22 June, representatives of the United Nations Security Council have been in Port-au-Prince for 48 hours in order to assess the situation in the country before the withdrawal of the MINUSTAH mission on the basis of controversy. Haitians accuse peacekeepers of having introduced cholera in 2010, an epidemic that has already killed 9,000 people. Seven years after the outbreak began, anger is growing even more in the face of the lack of United Nations assistance. The Standing Complaints Commission does not want to pay despite the support of Mr Ban Ki-moon. It would appear that not all permanent members of the Security Council want to finance any assistance. In the end, the money is missing. Of the $400 million required, only $2.7 million has been collected since December 2016. Sacha Sergio Llorentty Solíz, Bolivia's representative on the Security Council, cannot deny this reality: "We recognize that there is a problem and we are here to renew the commitment of the United Nations and the international community to work together to tackle this problem and solve it." Minister, do you have any information that MINUSTAH would be responsible for this cholera epidemic that affects Haiti? What about the financial situation of the United Nations? What are the reasons for such a situation? My question is from June. Since then, Haiti has also suffered the climatic phenomena that we have experienced in the Caribbean region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u65	Mr Flahaux, the United Nations is accused of unconsciously spreading cholera in Haiti in October 2010 via the MINUSTAH peace mission. Having long denied the role of this mission in triggering this epidemic, the former UN Secretary-General, Mr Ban Ki-moon, apologized to the Haitian people in December last year on behalf of the United Nations, one month before the end of his mandate. His apology, which he first formulated in Creole, and then repeated in French and English, can be seen as a mea culpa for the role of the Organization in the outbreak and spread of the epidemic in Haiti. On 16 December 2016, the UN General Assembly also recognized in Resolution 71/161 that the UN had a moral responsibility towards the victims of the epidemic. Thus, while recognizing the moral responsibility of the United Nations, the Secretary-General declines the organization's legal responsibility for the diplomatic immunity of the United Nations and its missions. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and his successor Antonio Guterres tried to mobilize the international community behind a new strategy, launched in August 2016, to increase international efforts to eliminate cholera and to build water supply and sanitation facilities. The strategy also provides material assistance to persons affected by cholera. As you rightly point out, $400 million is needed to implement this strategy. To date, only $2.7 million had been received from the trust fund established for that purpose, and $7 million in voluntary contributions had been raised outside the trust fund to implement the Secretary-General's strategy. A total of $4 million has also been pledged. It's clearly not enough. The lack of funds can be explained in part by the numerous and repeated crises of recent years, which have led to a certain fatigue of international donors, by the internal political situation in Haiti, characterized by a lasting electoral crisis, and by corruption. These factors have created uncertainty as to the effective use of the funds provided. In addition, several Member States continue to question the implementation of the second part of the new strategy, namely material assistance to victims. In order to mobilize and reassure donors again, the Secretary-General appointed a special high-level envoy to develop a fund-raising strategy, after raising awareness of the new authorities established in Haiti, and this summer appealed to all member States to provide further contributions. Several States have thus announced further voluntary contributions in response to this appeal. Our country will also contribute $350,000 to the trust fund. This contribution is in addition to the assistance of 1 million euros provided by our country for the reconstruction of the islands most affected by Hurricane Irma, including Haiti. Belgian Development Cooperation also funds non-governmental actors who contribute, at the local level, to the fight against cholera, including through the repair of drinking water systems and the dissemination of health kits to the Haitian population. That's what I could tell you about this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u66	Minister, thank you for your extremely comprehensive answer. Despite the support you give us, of which I am pleased, we are still far away, unfortunately the 400 million needs that had been assessed before the hurricanes. Haiti is one of the poorest countries in the world. It is a French-speaking country, and the situation in this country therefore displeases me all the more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u67	Minister, Switzerland has recently prevented the export to Pakistan of dual-use valves for ventilation systems. These valves would be used in Pakistan's nuclear weapons programme. The Islamic Republic of Pakistan is the seventh country in the world to develop and test nuclear weapons. Islamabad is not a signatory to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Minister, do you have any information on the progress of Pakistan's nuclear programme? Since 1948, Pakistan and India have waged a cowardly war, with calmer periods and others clearly more tense. What about today? Do you think that this is a programme of deterrence on both sides or are there signs of tension conducive to nuclear conflict between the two countries? What is the European Union's position on this nuclear programme? Do European or Belgian companies contribute to this programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u68	Mr Flahaux, Pakistan, has a nuclear weapons programme. Given the nature of this programme, little information is made public. It is estimated that Pakistan is seeking to acquire new nuclear capabilities, new means of delivery. It should be emphasized that Pakistan's programme violates one of the foundations of the global non-proliferation system, including the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons beyond the five permanent members of the Security Council. Belgium regularly urges Pakistan to accede to the non-proliferation treaty and to give up its nuclear programme. It is also an objective of European Union policy. The development of Pakistan's nuclear programme is linked to the difficult relations between India and Pakistan. Pakistan's nuclear doctrine is based on the principle of minimum credible deterrence, as is India's. Pakistan considers itself a responsible and restraintful nuclear actor. However, the presence of nuclear weapons in a region with strong bilateral tensions is a cause for deep concern. By its incomparable destructive force, any use of nuclear weapons would have catastrophic humanitarian consequences. This demonstrates, if necessary, the importance of a better understanding between India and Pakistan as well as diplomatic solutions to ease their differences. These long-standing and deep-rooted disputes are based, inter alia, on the unresolved issue of sovereignty over Kashmir, which is now divided between areas claimed by each country, with the United Nations ensuring that armed escalation is limited. Muslim terrorism in India – with very deadly attacks in 2008, but more recently also –, which the Indian authorities claim to be remote from Islamabad, adds to the historical tension between the two neighbours. In accordance with the provisions of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, Belgian and European companies are prohibited from contributing to Pakistan's nuclear programme. The export of strategic products is subject to strict rules in order to avoid diversion to nuclear weapons programmes. International cooperation has also been established in order to make export control more effective. Belgium is part of the Nuclear Suppliers Group, which aims to prevent the diversion of dual-use goods for military purposes. We also encourage Pakistan to ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, for which we have been particularly active during the last week of the General Assemblies in New York, as we are now coordinating, in collaboration with Iraq, in an attempt to advance that ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u69	Mr Minister, thank you for your very illuminating reply that shows how active Belgium, contrary to what some have meant, is in this work aimed at global nuclear disarmament, beyond Pakistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u70	Minister, the annual report on monitoring the application of European Union (EU) law was published in early July 2017. According to the European Union, the effective application of the law is essential for citizens and businesses to enjoy the benefits that EU law confers on them. According to the EU, some countries are slow to apply European law by not transposing European legislation into their legislation. Minister, what about Belgium about bringing European legislation into line? I know that in the past, we had a long delay. Are we among the good, the means or the bad students of the European class? What are the various difficulties that slow down this transposition into our law? I imagine the multiplication of assemblies must play. What measures should be put in place to make this transposition more effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u71	Mr Flahaux, if Belgium was close to a transposition deficit of 3% in 2016, well beyond the percentage authorised by the European Commission, a major effort was made to reduce it to 1.9% during the June assessment. I would like to point out that, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I am coordinating the overall transposition effort at Belgian level, but the transposition of European directives is the responsibility of the federal and federated authorities concerned. Eighty infringement proceedings were initiated by the Commission concerning late transpositions by Belgium, of which twenty-three are likely to be closed because they were finally transposed. Two cases are pending at the Court of Justice of the European Union. Some factors may explain these mixed results. The increase in the number of directives at the end of the Barroso Commission's mandate and their complexity have had an impact on the transposition work at Belgian level. Moreover, Eurocoordinators, who are responsible for monitoring transposition in their institutions, are still often assigned to other parallel activities. In order to improve Belgian results, a number of processes have been put in place: the increased involvement of all levels of power involved in the directives in their negotiations, thus ensuring easier future transposition, better information and preparation for transposition, the strengthening of Eurtransbel, a communication platform on transposition between the various entities of our country which fluidises the flow of information and identifies the stumbling blocks for transposition. Secondly, we need to strengthen the role of the Eurocoordinators and give them the means to do their job in order to best respond to the challenge of transposing European directives into national law within the deadlines laid down. Finally, article 16, paragraph 3, of the Special Law on Institutional Reform of 8 August 1980 makes it clear that the responsible entity must bear the costs of fines and/or periodic penalty payments resulting from a conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u72	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. We can already see the important effort that has been made, despite the Belgian institutional complexity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u73	Minister Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin, meeting in Hamburg on 7 July 2017, on the margins of the G20, announced a truce in southern Syria that came into force two days later. They also agreed on the establishment of a "de-escalation" zone in the region. The area in question comprises the provinces of Deraa, Quneitra and Sueida, a very sensitive Syrian region, because the border of Jordan and the Golan Heights is administered by Israel. Lebanese Hezbollah, supported by Iran, is actively participating in the fighting alongside the Syrian army against rebels and jihadists in these areas. The Shiite Party and the Iranian Revolutionary Guards formed a suppletive force of the Syrian army, called the " Golan Regiment". For the Hebrew State, Hezbollah's presence in the Golan is unacceptable. The Israeli army bombed Syrian troops and Lebanese Shiite party convoys, on several occasions, in the area. The agreement must also allow humanitarian aid to be made available to the population. This is the first ceasefire in six years in the region. It was scheduled to enter into force on Sunday, July 9. The head of Russian diplomacy Sergei Lavrov explained that it was in Amman, Jordan, that these stabilization measures in southern Syria were adopted jointly by the Russian, American and Jordanian experts. What about this truce today? What was the reaction of Damascus and Tehran to this bilateral decision between Putin and Trump? Does this agreement between the US and Russia show a disagreement between Russia and the power of Bashar El Assad? That is not what the current situation shows. What about access to humanitarian aid? What about this zone of "de-escalation" decreed by the two powers? What are the Belgian and European positions on this agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u74	Mr Flahaux, the Astana agreements have created so-called de-escalation zones in order to reduce the level of violence and to allow the delivery of relief and humanitarian aid. This is not a cease-fire, as military operations remain permitted against terrorist groups as defined by United Nations resolutions and Astana guarantors. In the southern zone, as in other de-escalation areas, there is a combination of a decrease in the intensity of fighting as a general rule and a persistence of ad hoc armed offensives against the rebels and the remains of Daesh. The operations of the Syrian army are under way, inter alia, in the south-western part of the country, in the Beiching area, in the vicinity of the Golan Heights. The agreement controlling the southern part of the country follows a specific strategic and tactical logic, which is consistent with the common objectives of the three parties directly involved, the United States, Russia and Jordan, as well as their concern to reduce any risk of Israel's untimely armed intervention in the conflict. The reactions of Damascus and Tehran were not particularly enthusiastic, but not virulent either. This reflects the dependence of the Syrian regime on Russian support. The frictions between the regime and its guaranteeing partners in the Astana agreements are not uncommon, but so far they are contained. Belgium and the European Union recognise that the Astana Agreement and the Southern Syria Agreement are making a positive contribution, in the sense that these agreements have resulted in a certain reduction in violence. The agreement between Russia and the United States could also be the precursor to more constructive and productive cooperation between the two Powers. However, it is essential that this beginning of collaboration lead to further engagement in the political process, under the auspices of the United Nations and the Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura in Geneva. A lasting solution to the Syrian conflict can only be found through this political process, and through a comprehensive peace agreement between all Syrian parties, including a transition to a Syrian future without the presidency of al-Assad. This requires an international consensus among the countries most involved in the region and beyond, in support of this political process in Syria. We will continue to work to move from Astana to Geneva as soon as possible, in order to resume political negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u75	Thank you for your answer, once again extremely comprehensive. Unfortunately, we all feel that Bashar al-Assad has never been so popular among the world's heads of state, even among those who strongly criticized him and who, if I dare say so, are now making their way to Damascus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u76	Joined Questions No 20004 by Mrs Jadin, No 20020 by Mr Vandeput, No 20029 by Mr Luykx and No 20275 by Mr Top are transformed into written questions. Question No 20013 by Mrs Grovonius was postponed and question No 20018 by Mr. Van Biesen is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u77	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, on 8 June last was discussed and then voted in plenary session of the House on the proposal for a resolution by Ecolo-Groen to reconsider foreign policy towards Saudi Arabia. In this debate, you said that you would send a letter to the Ministers-Presidents of the Regions concerning the implementation of the objective of a national embargo on the export of arms and so-called dual-use products. I wrote to you on June 21 to obtain a copy of these letters. You promptly answered me, without sending me these copies, but stating that the contents of your letters were word-for-word with the statements made in the plenary of the House. Deputy Prime Minister, could you tell me which ministers-presidents have already answered you and when? Could I get a copy of any answers that have already been received? If not, could you summarize the exchanges? The majority in Wallonia having changed, if the Walloon minister-president has already answered, was it then Mr. Magnette or Mr. Borsus? In the event that the former Minister-President Mr. Magnette did not respond to you, are you considering sending a letter on the same subject to the new Minister-President Mr. Borsus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u78	Mr Hellings, I will try to be specific about the various ministers I have addressed. Positions have often evolved in this area, including the positions of your political party. During the period when Mr Nollet, who is still in your group, was minister of the Walloon government, arms exports to Saudi Arabia were obviously taking place. I congratulate you on having evolved on this subject, like other political groups. It still lasted five years. In response to your question, I can inform you that on June 19, 2017, we received a response from Walloon Minister-President Paul Magnette. On 23 June, we received a reply from Mr Guy Vanhengel, Minister for External Relations of the Brussels-Capital Region. The content of these letters is as follows. According to Mr Magnette, "Wallonia supports the establishment of an embargo at European level on the export of dual-use weapons and equipment to Saudi Arabia." From Mr Vanhengel, I received the following reply: "When this is done at the level of the European Union and/or the United Nations and both arms and dual-use goods are endorsed, the Brussels-Capital Region may support the agreement so that the federal government would advocate a restriction on the export of the said goods." End of quote. During September, a reminder letter was sent by my services to the Minister-President of the Flemish Region, Mr Geert Bourgeois. A letter was also sent to the new Minister-President of the Walloon Region, Willy Borsus, in order to repeat the request made in the letter addressed to his predecessor. I haven't received a response yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u79	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answers. In relation to your opening remarks, as you know, you have written to the ministers-presidents who are in charge not only of the coordination of the government, but also, in any case, as regards the Walloon Region and the case that concerned you, of the competence to issue arms licences specific to the minister-president. It is not a jurisdiction shared by other members of the government. Licences are not issued by the government but by the Minister-President. First, it is a specific competence of the Minister-President. It is important to remind him. This is not a decision or order of the government, etc. It will be to hide the breasts of your minister-president since you have re-submitted a letter to your new minister-president. I hope you're also talking to Mr. Willy Borsus. I hope you know how a political party works and that we have the same position, since you blame me. I know that in your party, it is particularly difficult to manage between the different chapels! It's clear that there may also be bare breasts in some chapels in your home! In any case, it is very interesting and I congratulate you on having rested this question with the Walloon Minister-President because it is essential to know whether we can finally be on the same wavelength between the federal level which adopted this courageous resolution and the regional level where it is true that some efforts still remain to be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u80	Mr. President, thank you. My initial question will be confined to the general context in which bilateral contacts with Turkey are evolving regarding the defence of freedom of expression and the press, since Loup Bureau, who studied at the Institute for Higher Studies in Social Communications (IHECS) in Brussels, was recently released. In this new context, how are your bilateral contacts with Turkey regarding the defence of freedom of expression and the press and the independence of the judiciary evolving?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u81	I can only congratulate you, Mr Minister; I know that even Loup Bureau's father pointed out that Belgium had been more active than France in this area. Unfortunately, more generally, the situation of the press is quite terrible in Turkey. According to Reporters Without Borders, the country ranks 155th out of 180 in the 2017 press freedom index. There is no guarantee that a case similar to that of Wolf Bureau will not reappear. It seems that last week's visit by the delegation of the Committee on External Relations, chaired by our colleague Catherine Jadin, went well. Are there similar cases of Belgian or Belgian-Turkish citizens imprisoned in Turkey whose diplomacy would follow the cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u82	Mr. President, thank you. Colleagues, as you know, the release of Wolf Bureau took place on 15 September. His return to France on 17 September was a great relief for his family, his loved ones and all those who mobilized for his release. I would like to commend the efforts of the French authorities who have worked for this liberation. As you know, we proposed to the French authorities to support their request, because of the Belgian ties of Loup Bureau and on a humanitarian basis. That is why I publicly called for his release and spoke with his father and the head of the school where he continued his studies in Belgium. The release of Wolf Bureau must not forget the continuation of the legal proceedings against him. I will therefore continue to follow up on this issue, along with the prosecution of the numerous Turkish journalists, human rights defenders and other representatives of civil society. I have already had the opportunity to express, here, all my concern at developments in Turkey and the particular attention I give to human rights in that country. I have not been informed of cases of Belgian citizens imprisoned in Turkey for reasons similar to those invoked in the case of Loup Bureau, but we will of course continue to be attentive to any situation which may arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u84	I also thank you and welcome your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u85	Minister, in November 2016, the House approved a resolution concerning the destruction by Israel of Belgian development cooperation projects in Palestine. The resolution thus calls on the government "to undertake now, in consultation with the European countries concerned and, where appropriate, on a bilateral basis, diplomatic initiatives to encourage the Israeli government to accept the principle of compensation for the destruction of projects." This request was added to the initiative of Ecolo-Groen following the destruction of part of the electricity network in Khirbat al-Tawil in 2014, a playground in Zaatara in 2016 and some 20 other infrastructure projects of the West Bank Protection Consortium, of which Belgium is one of nine donors. Recently, a school in Jubbet al-Dib, near Bethlehem, which received international support, notably from Belgium, was destroyed. This umpteenth episode follows the confiscation, on 9 August, of solar panels in Zone C in the village of Abu Nwar. These solar panels were financed by the Belgian Cooperation and fed a school and kindergarten. Deputy Prime Minister, this is the first Israeli destruction in Palestine since the vote on the resolution in question. Could you give us details of the explanations you asked the Israeli government and how you asked for compensation for these destructions? You had indeed announced these explanations and compensations by means of the press on 24 August. What official responses were received from Israel? In the event of an unsatisfactory response from Israel, do you envisage diplomatic retaliatory measures such as the convening or dismissal of the Israeli ambassador to Belgium? Have you undertaken these steps on a strictly bilateral basis or have you undertaken them in consultation with certain allied countries? What are the European countries with which your services have formed an alliance on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u86	Minister, a few days before the start of the new school year, Israel destroyed a school in the Palestinian Jubbet Ad-Dib. Earlier Israel took up solar panels that supplied electricity to a playground and another school. These projects were partly financed by Belgium. In a press release, you announced that you will ask for compensation from the Israeli government. We welcome this. Of course, there is a lot of movement already. At European level, efforts have been made since September 2015 to persuade Israel, through a so-called structural dialogue with Israel, to stop such destruction. In the event of the failure of this European démarche, the European countries could seek compensation for Israel. The resolution adopted by the Chamber on 24 November 2016 calls on the Government to ask, together with other European countries or, where appropriate bilaterally, Israel to compensate for the destruction of projects financed by Belgium in Zone C. Firstly, how and in what form will you ask Israel for these compensations? Have you already issued specific orders in this respect? How will the level of compensation be determined? When exactly will you take that step? Who exactly are you going to ask for compensation from? Secondly, have you been in contact with other European donors of the projects in question? This was requested in the above-mentioned chamber resolution. Will these other European donors also ask for compensation? Which countries are they talking about? Thirdly, will you at least take a bilateral demarche or only if other European countries are not prepared to take a joint initiative? Fourthly, will you also encourage other European countries that see their projects destroyed by Israel to claim compensation bilaterally? Has the European structured dialogue been formally concluded? Fifthly, how many destructions of projects financed by European countries have taken place in zone C since the beginning of this year? How many of these were financed in full or in part by Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u87	Minister, in my turn I have four questions for you. Firstly, what compensation have you requested from the Israeli government? Secondly, do you think that condemning the destruction over and over again is enough to stop the action of the Israeli authorities? Thirdly, are there any tougher measures to be taken than a conviction or a probably non-committal demand for compensation? Fourthly, a common EU position is not a prerequisite for systematic bilateral action. What steps can or will the Belgian Government, possibly together with other similar Member States, take to address the question of compensation to the Israeli Government? What steps do you intend to take against the Israeli government if Israel continues to destroy Belgian structures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u88	On 29 August last, our ambassador in Tel Aviv carried out an official démarche to transfer our condemnation of the seizure of solar panels in Abu Nwar and the demolition of a school in Jubbet Ad-Dib to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Israel. During this process, our Ambassador was accompanied by his European colleagues, representing most of the contributors to the West Bank Protection Consortium. More specifically, Denmark, France, Ireland, Luxembourg and Sweden supported our approach, as well as the European Union delegation on the spot. In addition to Belgium, the infrastructure confiscated or destroyed had been financed by other European countries, also donors of the consortium. In that démarche, the Israeli government was asked to return the confiscated solar panels and rebuild the destroyed school. The Belgian ambassador has made it clear that in the event that there would be no response because of the Israeli government, a financial compensation would be requested from Israel. In addition to our condemnation of this unwarranted new action under international law, the document submitted on that occasion called for an explanation from Israel of the reasons and the time chosen to undertake it, knowing that it had had the direct effect of denying access to education to dozens of children on the eve of the school year, called on Israel to put an end to the destruction of humanitarian projects in Area C and to comply fully with its obligations as an occupying Power, in accordance with international law, and in particular with the provisions of the Fourth Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, which prohibits the demolition and confiscation of movable or immovable property, except in cases of motivated military necessity. Since the Israeli authorities have not so far given a positive response to this first démarche, our services are now discussing the exact terms of a joint letter to demand financial compensation with their like-minded partners from other donor countries. This letter will be sent to the Israeli government in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u89	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, as I said in my question, I am particularly pleased with the speed of your official response to these destructions. It's good that you told the Israeli government what he did. You have taken the necessary steps with the few European allies who face the same difficulties. It is now necessary to proceed to the next stage and, always in a coordinated manner, in the event that the future joint letter does not receive a response, to consider convening or returning the ambassadors of these different States in a coordinated manner. Israel must understand that this must stop and that it is no longer a matter of playing with our feet but above all with the future of Palestinian children.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that you have responded quickly and decisively, and I would like to thank you for that. I hope that the joint European initiative or letter will be there in the next few days. If that were not the case, would you be prepared to make bilateral démarches against the destruction of that infrastructure project, which was financed by our taxpayers' money? I believe that this is the important question that remains open, including for possible future cases. I understand, of course, that you want to take a joint initiative first, which I think is most sensible. Only, if that does not work, I think that the countries individually should be prepared to take steps. Maybe you can still answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u91	A letter will be drawn up, with or without our partners. I believe it is possible to draw up a letter with the five countries which have now made the same démarche. That letter may be from the whole of the European Union, but I think it will be from the five partners. If not, I certainly intend to draw up a bilateral letter. There will therefore be consultations at European level and otherwise there will be consultations with the countries concerned, but if that is not possible, there will be a bilateral démarche.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u92	Mr President, Minister, the Rohingya are a Muslim minority in Myanmar living in the Rakhine province in the border area with Bangladesh. Under the military junta they were considered illegal invaders. They have no civil rights and are stateless. In recent weeks an offensive by the army against the Rohingya has been taking place, according to the UN and according to Human Rights Watch crimes against humanity. There is a chance that the situation will evolve into genocide. We have noticed in recent weeks that it is not improving. Citizens are randomly shot and villages are burned down. In neighbouring Bangladesh appear to be rinsing from refugees and already at least 27 000 Rohingya crossed the border. According to the UN, several tens of thousands are still stuck in the forests in the border area. The European Parliament adopted a resolution on 15 December 2016 to denounce the situation of the Rohingya. I'd like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, is Belgium and/or the EU undertaking diplomatic démarches to stop the violence? Secondly, is this issue on the agenda of the UN Human Rights Council? If not, will you ensure that this happens? Thirdly, will you urge the Prime Minister of Myanmar to intervene in this matter? Will you ask that the Myanmari government grant the Rohingya citizenship and civil rights? Finally, will you ask for an international investigation into human rights violations in the Rakhine province?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u93	Deputy Prime Minister, since October 2015, that is to say, since the last time you addressed the humanitarian situation of the Rohingya people in response to a written question from our colleague Flahaux here, the situation of the Rohingya people has become even more invivable, as my colleague De Vriendt has described, to the point that we have come to ask ourselves the question of their mere survival in Myanmar. The European Union played a role in the democratic transition process in Myanmar, but the pressure to achieve national reconciliation and the end of intercommunal tensions, if not worse, seemed to be in vain. Hence, Deputy Prime Minister, my four questions. 1. What is the position of our country and its European Union allies on maintaining the arms embargo on Myanmar? 2. Could you please elaborate on the concrete steps Belgium and the European Union have taken to encourage Burma to implement the recommendations contained in the Human Rights Council Resolution on Myanmar, adopted in March 2015, which inter alia calls for granting Burmese citizenship to Rohingyas? 3. What contacts have you recently made with representatives of Myanmar's neighbouring countries to see how to exert concerted regional pressure on the Burmese government? 4. When will a Belgian official, a member of the government, of the royal family or any other kind, soon meet Aung San Suu Kyi or a member of his government? Can this person simply explain to him that what has once mobilized us by thousands in Belgium - you are, I think - in favour of the lady of Rangoon, Nobel Peace Prize laureate, in her fight against dictatorship, is mobilising us today for the legitimate cause of the minorities of the country she is leading today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u94	Mr Minister, I shall confine myself to two questions. Is Amnesty International's message that the activities of aid organisations in the area are being restricted by the authorities? If so, what reasons do they give for this? Is it true that terrorist organizations like Al-Qaeda and others are trying to get a foothold in Rakhine? If so, what are the chances of this actually happening and the situation getting even more out of hand?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u95	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat what my distinguished colleagues have just mentioned. We have received a lot of information since our questions were tabled in September. So here are some specific questions. What means of economic or political pressure are available to invite the Burmese authorities to possible ceasefire negotiations? Despite the unease of Rangoon's lady, we feel that she really does not have the power to make a difference. Could we consider sending peacekeepers in a pacification role?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u96	Minister, I think everyone recognizes the dramatic situation in Myanmar. The international community cannot look away from that. Our country must continue to place this situation on the international agenda. Minister, can you explain the current situation of the Rohingya community in Myanmar, in particular the humanitarian situation? Did you address the Myanmar authorities to the situation? If so, what points have you raised? What was the answer to this? Will you argue within the EU in favour of taking steps, both politically and humanitarianly? A UN report provides recommendations for meeting the political, socio-economic and humanitarian challenges in the state of Rakhine. How do you estimate the impact of these recommendations? What role can our country play in this development?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u97	Mr President, I obviously agree with what my colleagues have said. I would add, however, that on 10 September the Rohingya declared a one-month unilateral ceasefire, but that the Burmese government replied that it was not negotiating with terrorists. That's where we're at. I had already asked you in 2015 about the alarming situation of this minority. How has this situation evolved since then? An appeal had already been made by the international community and the European Union, inter alia, to put an end to discrimination, stop violence, stop human rights violations, restore the rule of law and make every effort to improve the humanitarian situation. What are the actions of Belgian diplomacy in this context, particularly in its capacity as a member of the UN Human Rights Council? Finally, Belgium was funding a €150,000 UNESCO project in the state of Arakan, aimed at better understanding between communities through access to education. What about today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the latest events have once again brought to light a most alarming situation. The humanitarian situation of the more than 400,000 refugees in Bangladesh was unacceptable, as were the human rights violations that had been committed during that renewed tension. As mentioned earlier in my press release of 20 September, I took note of Aung San Suu Kyi's speech on 19 September. In that speech, she not only regretted the suffering caused by the conflict, but also expressed her willingness to allow the refugees to return. I also took note of her condemnation of human rights violations. Now it is important to translate these words into concrete actions. The first requirement is that tensions in Rakhine state be reduced and humanitarian aid workers have unlimited access. This access must be guaranteed for all humanitarian organisations, not just for the Red Cross. There were some comments from Amnesty International, Mr President, but I did not get a reason because of the government, except for the fact that there is a conflict in the province. We ask for full and unlimited access for all humanitarian organisations on the ground. As far as the possible presence of terrorist groups is concerned, I have read and heard the same information, but without further ado. It is a fact that a possible presence of these groups will be a very negative point for the evolution of the conflict in the province of Rakhine. However, the problems also require an approach to the root causes. In its statement on the state of Rakhine of 6 September, High Representative Mogherini called for the implementation of the recommendations made by a committee headed by Kofi Annan. The recommendations include the elimination of discrimination, the fight against poverty, equal access to education and social services and the promotion of trust and reconciliation. It is in this sense that Belgium has recently intervened at the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva. It is also in this sense that my administration spoke at a meeting with the Myanmar Ambassador to Belgium. I have also addressed this crisis with various Asian interlocutors, particularly during the week of the UN General Assemblies, because pressure from the region will also be needed. The European Union and Belgium have supported the democratic transition process in Myanmar since its inception. Our will is to continue in this direction, important concrete programmes have been implemented since 2011 and the EU's restrictive measures against Myanmar have gradually been lifted, with the exception of the arms and equipment embargo that can be used for internal repression. In the present circumstances, the continuation of the latter sanctions is largely justified. The current situation in Rakhine State should encourage the European Union to put more pressure on the regime so that the measures necessary for a solution to the Rohingya problem are finally taken. It is in this context that discussions are currently taking place within the European Union. It is also necessary to support all diplomatic initiatives that could be presented in order to avoid regionalisation of the conflict or, as mentioned by the President, a recovery by radical Islam. We must not only campaign for the return of the Rohingya to Rakhine province and Myanmar more generally, but also for the granting of a genuine status to this population, which cannot remain in this statelessness situation, rejected by a central national authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u99	I give the floor to my fellow Members for a reply. Colleagues De Vriendt, Hellings, Van Peteghem and myself fit. Mr Blanchart, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u100	Mr. Chairman, I, too, am satisfied with the minister's response. However, I have not heard a response with regard to the project in which we are involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u101	Mr Minister, at the end of August you condemned the launching of ballistic missiles by the People's Republic of Korea, including the launching of a missile over Japanese territory. These actions are incompatible with the binding resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and pose a threat to regional and international security. Indeed, tension has reached peaks in recent weeks, following Pyongyang's firing of intercontinental ballistic missiles that apparently put much of the American continent within reach. Minister, what is your view of this situation and the position of Belgian and European diplomacy? Does the European Union intend to take further action against North Korea in the light of the evolving debate on possible new sanctions at the UN level? Have there been any specific consultations between the European and transatlantic partners and, where appropriate, what has been the content of these consultations? What could be the humanitarian consequences for the North Korean population of this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u102	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, the acceleration of the development of North Korea's ballistic and nuclear programmes poses an extremely serious threat to the countries in the region and gives rise to very serious global concerns. The sixth nuclear test on 3 September was a dangerous milestone for global peace and non-proliferation. The Belgian position on this issue does not differ from the European position. On the one hand, we must continue to put pressure on Pyongyang and insist on a complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean peninsula by strengthening the sanctions regime. The international community must be united in its condemnation and full implementation of sanctions. On the other hand, despite the current escalation, Europe is committed to the dual approach and wishes to maintain the critical dialogue with Kim Jong-un's regime. Support for the dual approach was reconfirmed at the informal meeting of Foreign Ministers in Tallinn on 7 and 8 September. The international community reacted to the sixth nuclear test on 3 September by UN Security Council Resolution 2375, which resulted in even more severe sanctions against North Korea. The European Union intends to add additional autonomous measures this month. Concertations between Member States are under way on this subject. The United States has also strengthened its autonomous measures. North Korea's attitude was the subject of many interventions and consultations during the UN General Assembly Ministerial Week in New York, in which I participated. There is no doubt that the North Korean population is suffering. The development of the military programme diverts funds that should be invested in projects aimed at economic development and the well-being of the population. The European Union, for its part, ensures that the sanctions and additional measures it takes target the country's leaders and have a minimal impact on the population. I have repeatedly confirmed that the European Union can stand as a candidate for mediation if a dialogue with North Korea is ever to begin. We should have the support of the countries of the region, be it South Korea and Japan, but also of the powers that would have to participate in it, such as the United States, Russia, China and even the European Union itself. But the European Union did so in the negotiations with Iran. Catherine Ashton led these negotiations at the time. In this case, a role could be played by the European Union if the various partners so wish. The second point I would like to make is that, as far as Belgium is concerned, as I mentioned earlier, we have also, during this week's General Assemblies in New York, and we are doing so on a more permanent basis, continued to advocate and undertake steps for the ratification of the nuclear-test-ban treaty. It is important that this treaty comes into force to have an additional argument in the dialogue that must one day open with North Korea. However, ratifications are still lacking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u103	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope that the more focused approach to the measures taken with regard to North Korea will not resonate with its dictator. Donald Trump's comments are, for the time being, so hard that I don't see very well how we can find a successful solution to this conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u104	Minister, the regional festival of Toro Embolado in Foios (Valence) was the scene of a dramatic incident in late July. A traditional rite consists of attaching the bull to a stake on the village square and burning its horns. Now, in this last edition, not everything happened as planned: frightened by the flames, crowds and screams, the bull panicked and rushed straight on the wooden stake. He died instantly. It is reported that similar acts are being carried out in the village of Medinaceli. Traditions, regional rites and customs in certain regions are difficult to discuss. Clearly, both in Spain and in the south of France, the practice of tauromachia is deeply rooted in mentality and even in popular identity. To oppose it seems to be in vain. Two thoughts, two opposing opinions, come together: on the one hand, respect for traditions, and on the other hand, protection and respect for animals. Nevertheless, it would be a bit humanistic to bring the cursor closer to more common sense, intelligence by reducing the scope of possibilities in such practices. Mr Minister, could you convey to your Spanish colleague my concern about such acts that I call torture on a bull? Is there a European legislative framework for bullfighting? If so, is this festival-specific practice legal? If not, could you, together with the various ministers of the European Union, consider entering into discussions on this subject? If I wanted to launch a polemic, I would say that recently Catalonia banned tauromachia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u105	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, I must confess that we have not been able to trace the incident that you mentioned very precisely. So we will continue to learn about what really happened. As you propose, I will not fail to mention this subject in relations with our Spanish partner. I must also inform you that I have had telephone contact with my Spanish colleague in the last 24 hours, but it was not specifically on this point. There were other issues of concern to be raised which, as you mentioned at the end of the question, concerned Catalonia. We will return to you as soon as we are in possession of other elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u106	Minister, I have no doubt about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u107	Mr President, Minister, unfortunately Africa is a particularly homophobic continent. That is what justifies this set of questions. I believe that in this area, nothing should be allowed to pass. Minister, former Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan passed a law in 2014 that bans not only homosexual marriage, but also "same-sex cohabitation", and condemns from 10 to 14 years in prison any public testimony of "same-sex relationships". "This law," says a Human Rights Watch report, "has become a tool used by some police officers to justify multiple human rights violations." On Saturday, July 29, several dozen people gathered in a hotel in Lagos to raise awareness of sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV. This is an opportunity to break the isolation of homosexuals in a country where they know their sexual orientation is illegal. The neighbours of this facility alerted the authorities, which led to some 40 arrests. The police spokesman for the state of Lagos said: "We are still studying their files to determine who is guilty before bringing them to justice according to the law." As a result of these arrests, several HIV-positive people were unable to take their treatment. They don't eat well and they don't have access to a lawyer. It should be recalled that Parliament, on our initiative, voted by a very large majority on a resolution on the decriminalization of homosexuality in the world, which encourages our Government to use all possible instruments - and I know you are doing so - so that the various countries with which we have different economic, diplomatic and development cooperation links can amend their legislation in order to achieve the decriminalization of homosexuality. Minister, what information do you have about this? What about the fate of these people arrested on July 29, 2017? What means do Belgium and the European Union have of exerting pressure on the Nigerian authorities to guarantee a minimum of human rights, and in particular that of homosexuals? At this stage of the case, do you consider it useful to request an inquiry from the Commissioner for Human Rights? Mr President, I am continuing with my question on the situation in Uganda. Originally scheduled for 19 August 2017, the Gay Pride in Uganda had to be cancelled by its organizers following various government pressures and threats. According to the newspaper Le Monde, the minister of ethics and integrity, Simon Lokodo, known for his hate speech against the LGBT community - he may have been the one to talk about ethics and integrity - has been threatening the leaders of the physical violence and arrest movement for two weeks. The day before, a police raid prevented the opening gala, pushing the LGBT community to give up the other festive events announced. Already in August 2016, after postponements of date and place, the Gay Pride was finally interrupted by the police. Homosexuality in Uganda is still punishable by imprisonment. Until 2014, the law provided for life imprisonment for any individual whose homosexuality was "demonstrated". Minister, we must denounce homophobia in the leadership of certain states. How can we relay our dissatisfaction with Uganda? Could this item be placed on the agenda of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, so that the weight of our condemnation is stronger? Our country, a member of the United Nations Human Rights Committee in Geneva, what action could Belgium take at this level? Did you have an opportunity to convey a political message to your Ugandan counterpart about Uganda's particularly repulsive position on homosexuality? I come to my third question, on Tanzania. While the number of people infected with HIV is increasing, 20 persons accused of homosexuality, including 12 women, were arrested in Zanzibar by the police while attending an AIDS awareness workshop organized by a duly accredited NGO. Zanzibar is a semi-autonomous archipelago in Tanzania where homosexuality is severely repressed. However, tourism is developing there. Male homosexuality is severely repressed in Tanzania and can sometimes lead to life imprisonment. Earlier this year, health minister Ummy Mwalimu threatened to hand over a list of personalities and artists who were supposed to practice homosexuality to the people's vindiction. At the same time, police raids into nightclubs in Dar Es-Salaam targeted members of the LGBT community, released shortly thereafter, for lack of evidence. The Tanzanian authorities have even banned the import and sale of lubricant gels, which are useful as a complement to preventing HIV transmission, whether in heterosexual or homosexual relationships. Then in February, the Minister of Health ordered the closure of some 40 health centres, specialized in the fight against AIDS - logical for a Minister of Health, right? - these centres are accused of promoting homosexuality. That decision had been openly criticized by the United States. The Tanzanian Deputy Minister of Health assured Parliament on Friday 15 September that the country was going to continue its fight against homosexuality - I quote -: "We are fighting with all our strength against all the groups supporting homosexuality in our country." The Tanzanian government has also promised in recent months that foreigners defending the rights of homosexuals will be expelled from the country. I always refer to the resolution adopted in the House, Minister. What can we do to retaliate against Tanzania in order to exert pressure to stop this openly homophobic policy, which runs counter to human rights and even anti-sanitary policies? I will conclude with the situation in Tunisia, although it is less worrying than in the three countries mentioned above. In May 2017, the UN Human Rights Council listed 248 recommendations to improve human rights in Tunisia: 189 were accepted. Among these recommendations were the decriminalization of homosexuality. The only concession of the Tunisian authorities was the end of the obligation to submit to the anal test. Since 2014, the United Nations has considered this type of medical test as an act of torture, punishable. It represents a violation of the physical integrity of the person and of human dignity. Article 230 of the Tunisian Penal Code, which dates from 1913 - a period of French colonization - condemns, in the French text, sodomy and in the Arabic text, homosexual relations. This is the basis of the legislation punishing the homosexuality of three years in prison. This is obviously better than the death penalty provided for by other countries! It is a law very often brandished at the time Ben Ali to silence dissenting voices. In 2016 again, several convictions for homosexuality were handed down by the Tunisian courts. The Minister for Human Rights, Mehdi Ben Gharbia, justifies the slow decriminalisation process by saying that it is first necessary to "prepare civil society". Although the 2011 revolution freed speech and relaxed the lead chapter that weighed on the LGBT community, still in 2012, the then Minister of Justice compared homosexuality to a perversion and mental illness. If I am not mistaken, he was a member of the Islamist party. I know that we have good relations with Tunisia and that we still want to develop them. I would like to point out that this country has just taken a huge step in the context of inter-religious marriage, if I may say so. Tunisia was the first Arab country to grant women rights in 1956. Minister, do you think you can discuss the decriminalization of homosexuality with your Tunisian counterpart? Do we have the means to convince Tunisia to move towards more liberations from this point of view? It is well known that the tourism industry is of paramount importance to Tunisia. Could we balance an awareness among Belgian tourists about the risks faced by homosexuals on Tunisian territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u108	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, in general, I can confirm to you that the fight against discrimination as a whole and respect for the human rights of LGBTI people in particular is a priority of our foreign policy, in which Belgium is strongly committed bilaterally, Europeanly and multilaterally. Our country plays a leading role in various international forums for the protection of human rights and LGBTI people. Recently, we supported, among others, the Human Rights Council, but also during the third and fifth committees of the General Assembly of the United Nations, the creation in 2016 of the mandate of the independent expert of the United Nations "sexual orientations and gender identity". This expert visits countries where the situation of LGBTI people is problematic and tries to engage in a process of dialogue with the authorities concerned. Our country is also very involved in the Equal rights coalition, a set of more than 30 countries that lobby internationally for respect for the human rights of LGBTI people. Within the European Union, Belgium has actively participated in the development of the guidelines to promote and ensure respect for all the fundamental rights of LGBTI people, which were adopted in June 2013. In May 2017, Brussels hosted the fifth edition of the Idaho Forum focusing on the human rights of LGBTI people. Both bilaterally and in the wider context of the European Union, I can confirm that the issue of LGBTI people is regularly on the agenda of discussions with the authorities of the countries concerned. Our diplomatic posts and my administration maintain frequent contacts with human rights defenders and regularly receive LGBTI human rights defenders to hear their history and support them as best they can. The situation in the various countries mentioned in your questions is as follows. In Nigeria, in July 2017, some 40 Nigerian men, including 12 minors, were arrested by police in a hotel in Lagos, accused of violating the Same Sex Marriage (Prohibition) Act 2014. This law prohibits same-sex marriages, but is broader in scope: participation in LGBTI events is punishable by several years' imprisonment. According to my services, all these people were released on bail and are due to appear in court for the first time on 22 November. We will follow this case with all due attention and our country will continue its work to improve the lives of LGBTI people in Nigeria, both through the European Union and in consultation with like-minded countries, but also bilaterally. It must be noted, however, that this is a topic on which dialogue with Nigeria is particularly difficult. In Uganda, our embassy in Kampala closely monitors the situation of the LGBTI community, which is also very delicate. In a traditional and conservative society, homosexuality is a very sensitive theme. Homosexuality is reprehensible in Uganda. However, LGBTI people suffer even more from arbitrary violence, intimidation and threats on a daily basis. Our country has not failed to mention the protection of the rights of LGBTI people with the Ugandan authorities in consultation with the European Union and the Member States on the spot, including when we made a very clear position following the cancellation of the Gay Pride this summer. In our approach, we pay particular attention to the needs of affected communities. Thus, in Uganda, local LGBTI organisations ask us not to be too vocal or public, since their experience often proves counterproductive. Our action is also taking place through the European Union. Belgium participates actively in political dialogue meetings - article 8 with the Ugandan authorities. The last dialogue took place last March in the presence of the Ugandan Prime Minister. It was thanks to these exchanges that the Prime Minister agreed to receive representatives of the Ugandan LGBT community in 2016. It was also under pressure from the European Union that the law on the lifestyle of the LGBT community, which had been adopted in early 2014, was finally annulled. Despite this, the situation of the persons concerned in Uganda remains difficult and there is a need to continue to encourage changes in attitudes. In Tanzania, as you mentioned, there has been a deterioration in the situation of LGBTI people since last year and a tightening of the political line in recent times. There are only a limited number of organisations working to improve respect for the human rights of LGBTI people, who are facing far more difficulties, inter alia, because of the stigmatizing remarks made by some senior politicians. The issue is regularly raised in contacts with the Tanzanian authorities, whether here in Brussels or on the spot, particularly during my Tanzanian counterpart's visit to Brussels last June. Our country participates in the political dialogue meetings - article 8 - with the Tanzanian authorities, the first of which took place in March 2017 in the presence of the Tanzanian Foreign Minister. Our embassy on the spot continues to monitor the situation very closely. Regarding Tunisia, as I had already mentioned in response to your question of April 2017, I keep my analysis: the human rights situation in Tunisia follows a positive trend. This is in particular the case of the decision of the Order of Tunisian Physicians in early April to ban the tests to which you referred in your previous question. In the Belgian intervention in the framework of Tunisia's Universal Periodic Evaluation in May of this year, the first recommendation we made was precisely about the human rights issues of LGBTI people. We had asked our Tunisian counterparts to repeal article 230 of the Criminal Code, penalizing same-sex sexual intercourse. This recommendation was noted by Tunis and in response to the Belgian recommendation, the Tunisian minister mentioned that the Constitution prohibited all forms of discrimination and that the government was ready to discuss Article 230. This is an important development in my view. By consulting the travel notices published by the SPF Foreign Affairs, you will find that we are already making Belgian tourists aware of the risks involved in matters of sexuality by specifying that sodomy and adultery are, in Tunisia, a criminal offence. Cohabitation, common life without marriage can be denounced as a public insult to morals. That is to say, there is still work! I will give a brief answer to Mrs Bellens' question. As far as Brazil is concerned, I have not so far contacted my counterpart in connection with the court ruling referred to by Mrs Bellens, since all legal remedies have not yet been exhausted. We will continue to follow this matter with due attention. As in the vast majority of countries, the situation of LGBTI people in Brazil is far from ideal. Together with many other citizens, LGBTI people are victims of violence, a general phenomenon affecting Brazilian society. However, I must add that Brazil has a progressive policy on human rights for LGBTI individuals, especially in comparison with other countries. This is demonstrated, among other things, by the fact that homosexual marriage has been recognised since 2013 and that homosexual couples have been entitled to adopt children for several years. I can also tell you that Brazil is also very active internationally in protecting and promoting the human rights of LGBTI individuals. Brazil is part of the core group of countries that initiated the creation in 2016 of the mandate of the United Nations independent expert on sexual orientation and gender identity, for which Belgium has also worked as a member of the Council. Belgium supports the rights of LGBTI individuals in Brazil, both through bilateral initiatives and within the EU framework, in cooperation with the Brazilian authorities. Mr President, that concludes my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u109	Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your long and comprehensive response. I simply regret that the question on Tunisia was joined to the other three on the subject of black Africa because the situation, although still worrying in Tunisia, is not up to what is happening in the other three countries, and fortunately it is not up to what is happening in the other three countries. I also thank you for the action you are taking in these different countries. As these countries are part of the Cotonou agreements on cooperation, I hope that the renegotiation of these agreements will also focus on the human rights and rights of LGBT people. Unfortunately, I believe that these countries only understand the balance of power, although I can understand that the conservatism of the populations still prevails. But sometimes conservatism has a good back! Minister, since I am very pleased with all the answers you have given to my various questions, I propose that the twelve questions that I have tabled and which are still on the agenda be turned into written questions so that you can be released earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic739x.u111	The following questions by Mr Flahaux are thus converted into written questions: 20263, 20264, 20316, 20366, 20775, 20765, 20626, 20722, 20723, 20764, 20771, 20772.
