ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the questions to Minister Peeters are on this afternoon's agenda. A number of questions have been converted into written questions, namely question No. Question No 128, by Mr Kir, No 12858 Debates of the European Parliament 14277 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, No. Mr Daerden, No 14662. 15310 by Mr Friart and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 17312 by Mr Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u2	Mr President, Minister, last year Belgian companies recruited 662,000 foreign workers through secondment. In 109 000 cases they made an independent appearance. It is the highest number ever and even a doubling in five years. Workers entering employment through posting are much cheaper than workers from their own countries. After all, although they work under Belgian working conditions, they pay social security contributions in their home country. The problem is not that foreign workers come to work with us. The problem is that the rights of these workers are being violated massively and are being violated. The exploitation is enormous. The statutory wages are not paid, let alone overtime and social contributions. Foreign workers have to work unbridled overtime and live in inhumane conditions. The mass abuse is as well known to you as we are. There is a real error in all areas, and the most striking is the total lack of control and the dismantling of inspection services. By way of illustration, last week I received an e-mail about the contribution of the ConstruBadge to the construction sector. The compulsory registration at the yards is almost nowhere properly followed. The badges are not worn visibly. In short, many testimonies indicate that there is little control. Last Friday I received one of the most striking testimonies of a worker, following the set-up at Holcim Beton. It was about a foreign Interim Truck Driver, who had his driver's license for a month and had been driving around with concrete for almost three days during a heat wave. The man didn't look anymore, couldn't stand on his feet, and didn't have any required certificate. Of course, he wasn't properly registered or anything. I get a lot of stories like that. Mr Minister, next Friday, the trade union ABVV is taking action against social dumping in the European Parliament. The demands are as follows. Firstly, stricter legislation and reinforced inspection services. Secondly, the same and sound wage conditions and social protection for all. Thirdly, equal treatment for all European workers. Fourthly, the fight against social dumping is made an absolute priority. Minister, how do you respond to these actions and demands of the union? Will you come to the action yourself? It's okay. It's okay. You're welcome. What measures will you take to improve the protection of workers' social rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u3	Mr Friart is not here. So, Minister, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u4	Mr Hedebouw, I have received the trade union delegation. I'll get back to you on that later, but I'm doing more than you think. I can tell you that Commissioner Thyssen has indeed announced that the Commission will continue its proposal to revise the Posting of Workers Directive, despite the yellow card procedure established by some, mainly Eastern European, Member States. Discussions on this proposal are currently ongoing at European level. In this context, we are defending Belgian interests and will continue to support the pursuit of equal pay for equal work in the same place, which is very important, Mr Hedebouw. The Maltese Presidency is working constructively on a compromise proposal and has the ambition to reach a general approach by the summer of this year. In addition, discussions on the Regulation 883/2004 on social security were also launched. However, we can and will continue to take action at Belgian level in the important fight against social dumping. In this context, I can refer, for example, to the further implementing provisions of the Law of 11 December 2016, which lays down various provisions on the posting of workers. The National Labour Council is currently advising a KB to establish additional data to be entered by the foreign employer in the LIMOSA declaration, e.g. the data of the liaison person to be designated. For the rest, Mr Hedebouw, I can refer you to the 2016 Action Plan on the fight against social fraud and social dumping of this government, as well as to the various questions already addressed in that context by the Secretary of State responsible for combating social fraud and by myself in this committee, explaining in detail, among other things, the daily efforts of the inspection services in the fight against social dumping. This shows, as explicitly stated in the government agreement, that the fight against social dumping is a government priority. That is the message I gave to the ADVV delegation, which I received together with Minister Borsus on 7 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u5	Minister, I have two reservations. Firstly, it is often about rules, but many testimonies show that the rules are not applied on the ground. That is one of the major problems of this type of dossier, in many yards, but not only in yards, and in many sectors. In this respect, more nails must be struck with heads. Secondly, I believe that Belgium should exert much more pressure at European level. At the moment, at least according to information in the press, the measures are not really tightening up. It is more like a generalisation of the liberalisation of the sector. Two systems are still in operation, including social contributions. As long as this competition is not balanced, we will experience permanent dumping. That is why I hope that European Commissioner Thyssen will be able to build a relationship of strength. There is no political agreement at all on these measures from the countries in the East. I therefore hope that your optimism is well placed and that we will receive a positive message from the European Commission in June or July.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u6	Minister, there is a passage in the coalition agreement on an assessment of wage evolution and seniority, to which we still attach great importance in our country. In many sectoral collective agreements, wages are indeed linked to seniority. The government too is a very bad example and often relies only on seniority. Some time ago it was said that there would be work on adapted rules. I realise that this is a sensitive point, because it concerns the essence of social dialogue, especially wage negotiations. Minister, is there anything to be expected in the near future, such as an adjustment of the legislative framework or other agreements with the social partners with regard to matching wages to seniority?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u7	Mr Vercamer is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u8	Minister, I have the same question as Mr Lachaert, but from a different point of view. Does the government have any plans regarding seniority? The gradual career with seniority is very important in many sectors. Some distribution chains start with a gross wage of 1 800 euros. That's 2 650 euros gross 20 years later. That's really part of the career. Returning to this, looking at productivity figures, there will be conflict between generations, where young people will be able to work harder and the older workers will be pushed aside. I don't think that's a good approach. The older workers also have a lot of experience. I think individualising wages, linked only to production, will generate more competition in the company, which is very bad for the atmosphere in the company. Moreover, the older workers are punished. I think that from one of the most productive economies in the world like Belgium would be a very bad signal. Mr Minister, will there be anything of the project in the coming weeks and will you submit a proposal or do you keep it in the fridge? Then I think you should keep that fridge tightly closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u9	Minister, I have tabled a similar question. In the meantime, you have carried out an important part of the coalition agreement with the law on workable and manoeuvrable work. Another element in the same passage of the coalition agreement explicitly refers to the linking of wages and seniority, whereby in the new model employees will receive a wage more consistent with their competences and productivity, rather than a wage increasing linearly according to age and seniority. That passage is in the coalition agreement, because we are failing to significantly increase our employment rate. We are now at 67.7 %. Over the last ten years, that percentage has increased by 0.5 %, while Europe is telling us to bring it to 72%. The main reason for this limited increase is the group of plus-55 year olds, where we remain deeply below the European average. The reasons for this are versatile. It has to do with far too easy exit systems, which are already being dealt with by, among other things, the tightening of the SWT, but it also has to do with the linear link between pay and seniority. In May last year, you announced that you wanted to do something about it, but in the meantime, we are almost a year further. Time is running; we are more than halfway through this legislature. Mr Minister, can you tell us the state of play? Has this been discussed with the social partners? When will you put forward proposals on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I know the coalition agreement, which I believe is a good thing. Secondly, Mr President, we have indeed implemented a great many measures relating to my powers. Two laws were passed not so long ago and the law on workable and manoeuvrable work was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 15 March. In fact, you are asking me to implement the entire coalition agreement, while Mr Hedebouw has just asked me not to fully implement the coalition agreement. There are good reasons for taking due account of the expertise of the social partners and the insights of recent research into the possible reform of wage formation in sectors and businesses. In addition to the job content, the level and the working regime, service efficiency for determining minimum wages in the sectors is currently also taken into account. This has undoubtedly a cost increase effect on the employment of older servants. The other half of the workers, whom we used to call workers or workers, do not have seniority. However, early retirement from the labour market is higher for them. The opinion of the 2014 High Employment Council, to which you both refer in the written reflection of the demand, was very nuanced both in terms of the impact on employment opportunities and the relationship with productivity. The opinion indicated that this wage increase is not the main cause of the low employment rate of older workers. Early retirement opportunities, lack of continuing vocational training and low job mobility are more important factors according to the High Employment Council. The study cited by the 2013 Employment and Social Economy Support Point leads to similar findings, namely that the wage requirements of older workers account for only 9% of the lower chance of getting back to work. Recent doctoral research that took place at the University of Antwerp, in collaboration with SD Worx, warns against setting aside the seniority-linked wages. Such a wage policy also contributes to greater age diversity in companies, which in turn leads to an average productivity of 2% higher, thanks to better transfer of knowledge and experience. Performance wages only offer a valid alternative in certain circumstances, in particular for the short-term motivation of workers in pure production companies. In organisations such as the lion's share of service sectors, where performance can hardly be measured or cannot be measured, performance wages even work counter-productively, one concludes. A final series of studies, which I would like to quote, are the recent analyses by the OECD, the IMF and the International Labour Organisation of ILO, all of which conclude that the high level of coverage of the workforce through collective agreements on remuneration and minimum wages and the fact that these collective agreements are made generally binding by the public authorities, lead to a society with less inequality. A Joint Committee may eliminate any use of seniority from the payable allowances and associated premiums and allowances, thus placing the emphasis on the conditions of admission to each category and on the quality of its exercise. An example of this is Joint Committee 209 for the servants of the metal manufacturing industry. So far, however, this precedent has not been followed at sectoral level. Profit-related remuneration systems can therefore be developed in the first instance at company level. Companies that comply with the minimum wages set by the sector can already add additional performance-related financial incentives. The bonus plans which, with the implementation of collective agreement No. 90 are an appropriate means of achieving this. I assume that all the elements mentioned, which are of course familiar to the questioners, I have said nothing new, justify the cautious formulation of the subject in the coalition agreement and in my policy statement. The subject is primarily a matter for the social partners. An additional argument for this is that the experimental possibility available since the Generation Pact in 2005 to apply specific deviating rates of pay for new entrants to the company, i.e. payable allowances which may differ from collective wage agreements, has not been applied once. However, I am implementing the coalition agreement. The questioners have therefore rightly asked how far the dossier stands. However, all investigations require some caution in this respect, especially when naughty statements are made which are not sufficiently nuanced, which I regret. I will invite the social partners, in particular the chairman of the sectors, and I will provide an overview of wage restraint by sector. I will also ask for specific attention to be paid to the dossier during the sectoral negotiations. That is a first, very pragmatic action. Secondly, I will encourage a legislative initiative, of course after the opinion of the social partners, as stated in the coalition agreement. I would therefore like to deal with the matter in a step-by-step manner. The meeting with the presidents of the sectors is scheduled for 28 March. So I really want to do something about that. We hope that the work of the High Council for Employment and the doctoral research in this field, for which we have asked for an explanation from the Professor-author, can contribute to the debate that may take place in the committee at some point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. The fact that the story of paylessness has different nuances, I will certainly join him in that. Moreover, the fact that seniority is to some extent honoured also leads to some stability, as Mr Hedebouw said. Only, at some point, things become problematic. This is also apparent from several studies. If seniority is simply extended linearly, it is difficult to take other parameters into account. This also leads to tensions in the workplace, namely between younger and older workers. Those who have worked well for ten years expect a certain wage. Those who have been doing this work for 20 years are expected to perform twice as well, as it is twice as expensive. This leads to tension in the workplace, and young people are not always happy with it. So the question is not simply to throw the service authority system overboard. That is not the spirit of the coalition agreement either. That would be unwise. The question is that other criteria should also be given a fair place in the career structure and in the wage structure in our model. That debate is not taking place for the first time. I also notice that communication on this subject is very sensitive. It is also a bit embedded in our culture that one sometimes assumes that the older one gets, the more one earns, while that is detrimental to the creation of jobs for the elderly. If we want to give older people opportunities in the labour market, we need to understand that trees cannot be expected to continue to grow in the sky. At some point seniority is no longer a relevant factor and the build-up is stopped on the basis of seniority and there must be other criteria. This is a dossier that has been dragging on for some time. I am glad that you now have a number of consultations to do something about this. I am rather pessimistic when it comes to whether something concrete is going to come out in the near future, but if you can do that, I would very much welcome it. In any case, we are talking about a future career model. I would like to stress once again that we should not see a witch hunt in it as if we are going to be hitting on current wages. It is about a future career model for new employees. We will really have to build in other criteria for them, otherwise we will not be able to keep older people working longer. I would also like to tell you, in addition to you in the private sector, that you must consult with your colleague in the civil service. That build-up with seniority and age in government is actually the worst example of all, because almost all wages in government, whether federal government, Flemish government or local government, are based solely on seniority. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are really setting a bad example ourselves. If we want to take a first step to motivate the private sector, perhaps we should also urgently address the career model of our officials in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u12	Mr President, Minister, if there is to be a debate on how to raise young people's wages, I am, of course, prepared to set up a working group so that we can increase those wages. There are several ways, such as a beginner's wage for young people. There's a lot of slopes. I am really in favour of generalising the raising of wages for young people. I think that is also an effective problem. I would not want certain nervousness to arise in companies because young people do not earn enough. Let us make more money for young people and let us work on it. Secondly, I agree with you. Many studies show that it is not a good idea to link wages to productivity and competition. I follow you in those reasonings. I think it is a good and wise decision of the government not to start now. That link would let us take a step back. The link between productivity and wages would really mean a decline. One actually goes back to a certain form of piecework: the more one produces and works, the more wages one gets. This has nothing to do with modernising the labour market, but is actually more a reasoning of decline. One can still go back to the years in which one made a number of kilos in the mines, and then one was paid per kilo. Wages linked to productivity have nothing to do with modernisation, but are, above all, a step backwards in relation to all collective bargaining agreements which make it possible to plan one's life, that one knows that one is going to earn more because one has more experience, because one also has different needs in the years that follow. So I think it is a good thing that the government is not going to go through with it, Minister. That's wise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u13	Minister, your predecessor, Mrs De Coninck, who, as I know, is still a member of the Socialist Party, made it clear in the previous legislature that she is in favour of reversing the salary curve. It did so with the support of my party and with the support of the Green Group, Mr Calvo. There are articles about that. The ambition must be to reform the system in the longer term so that young people can earn a little more, because at an early age, most of the costs are incurred - that is, the reality - and that people at an older age are going to earn a little less. Thus the distribution becomes fairer and also more correct. In other words, it is indeed a debate that needs nuance, but it is not something that only one group would support and that you would not find support from other parties. You say that the debate will start on 28 March. However, if you read the coalition agreement correctly, it was actually intended to accommodate the seniority debate within the framework of the new career model, the famous law on manoeuvrable/workable work. That didn't happen. That was rejected by the social partners, if I understand correctly. So you are now starting the debate on this matter. Of course, advice should be sought from the social partners, which is obvious, but the coalition agreement is clear: it must be dealt with in a more nuanced way. You have listed a lot of arguments not to do it or to look at it very nuancedly. I was also hoping to hear from you why it would be a good idea. However, we will probably hear that during the debates here in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u14	Mr President, I would like to say a few words. You may not have understood the nuances that Mr Lachaert clearly understood. I didn't say I wouldn't. I have simply indicated that we must operate with caution and caution with the studies you are also familiar with. I will. By the way, in the coalition agreement, which I know well as you do, there is an explicit reference to the social partners. We are talking here about wage formation and wage moderation, specifically the competence of the social partners. I've got the lyrics on hand. I will read it to you: "After the advice of the social partners, a new career model will be introduced that companies... etc. You note that this paragraph begins with the advice of the social partners. Let me work hard on that. I hope you didn't misunderstand me. Let us avoid misunderstandings. I will continue to do so, but in a nuanced way. The coalition agreement expressly states: "After the advice of the social partners."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u15	That's what I'm saying: after advice. I'm just finding that nothing has happened in that area so far. It was actually intended to discuss this in the context of the new career model. That's what the coalition agreement says. So: in the context of the law on workable and manoeuvrable work. That didn't happen. Now we have to start with that. I'm also very nuanced, but something has to be done. I have the impression, and I follow it all, that it will end as Mr Hedebouw predicts: in the refrigerator, and later in the freezer. Of course, that cannot be the intention. What is in the coalition agreement must be implemented. But you will, you have reassured me. Dank u.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u16	Mr President, my colleague Stéphane Crusnière is in the Committee on External Relations. I will therefore sum up our two questions. Mr Minister, since 1 October 2016, benefits made abroad, including on behalf of the Belgian Development Agency, have been taken into account for the granting of unemployment insurance only on two conditions: on the one hand, these working days must be provided within the limits of bilateral and international agreements and, on the other hand, the worker must, once he has returned to the country, work at least three months as an employee. These changes have dramatic effects on Belgian expatriates who have not worked enough in Belgium, as they are excluded from unemployment insurance, and are certainly detrimental to the Belgian development cooperation sector. Minister, I had the opportunity to ask you about this on 23 November 2016, in particular about the abolition of unemployment benefits for co-workers. You then confirmed to me that young people who go abroad to a Belgian body directly after their studies, without having worked in Belgium before, would no longer be entitled to unemployment on their return to Belgium given the conditions I have just mentioned. You also stated that "the objective of this new government measure is clearly to combat fraud as it has been found that many people have been admitted to unemployment on the basis of benefits abroad whose veracity has not been verified". However, you opened a door and added that you were looking for a solution with Mrs De Block concerning people who work specifically in development cooperation. Minister, have you found solutions with Mrs De Block to meet the expectations of development cooperation workers? You have justified this as a measure to combat fraud. How do you justify not being able to verify the veracity of the information when it comes to young people who are involved in cooperation in a public or DGD-funded body? In this regard, it is likely that contracts of employment and exchanges are well known. The veracity of the information can therefore be verified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u17	Mrs Willaert had a question on the same subject, but she is absent because of illness.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u18	Mr President, Minister, there are indeed effects on our expatriates. The example of young people participating in Belgian cooperation projects is particularly interesting. I would like to ask you about the royal decree you have made, and in particular about its conformity with European law. In this respect, you provided, in the first Royal Decree, that as from 1 October 2016, work performed abroad or similar would be taken into consideration only if it met the requirement to constitute an employee's work of at least three months, in accordance with Belgian regulations. However, I think that the European rules on this matter are very clear. This is Regulation 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems. I really wonder about the compliance of your Royal Decree of 11 September 2016 with this European regulation. I wonder all the more as I was able to see, as of January 27, 2017, that you had corrected this royal decree in a particular way. In substance, you have not deleted it, you have not amended it to bring it into line with European rules or European law, but you have postponed its entry into force until 1 January 2019. Until that date, the old provision should apply. There is therefore no new rule, and the condition of having worked for at least three months as an employee must not be fulfilled in order to be able to obtain the allowances. Mr Minister, I wonder in a number of ways: firstly, on the substance, in relation to the specificity of our young people and of those who work for Belgian cooperation projects. Secondly, I have a political question about the way in which you, with the whole government probably, expressly failed to comply with European legislation when you took your Royal Decree of 11 September 2016. You've fixed it since then. I don't know if it's because of an opinion of the Council of State. It would be interesting to have his opinion on this 2016 royal decree. Unless, of course, you have requested it as a matter of urgency, in which case the Council of State confines itself to verifying the legal basis, but does not carry out any substantive examination and unless in the meantime there have been procedures for seeking annulment. In any event, I find it surprising on your part and on the part of the services of the SPF Employment to have taken measures contrary to European law, unless these are purely ideological provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm that the regulation of unemployment was amended on 1 October 2016 in response to a measure decided by the government as part of the anti-fraud measures taken during the 2016 budget conclave. The employment benefits abroad are now eligible for admission to the unemployment benefit scheme for benefits in a country with which Belgium is linked through an international convention and if, after the work carried out abroad, the worker has performed work benefits as a wage earner in Belgium for a minimum period of three months. The aim of these new measures decided by the Government is clearly to combat fraud, since in the past it has been found that many people have been admitted to unemployment on the basis of benefits made abroad and whose veracity has not been verified. Indeed, these measures have an impact on expatriated workers who have not performed any previous employment in Belgium and, in accordance with social security rules, have not been able to build up unemployment rights through foreign employment services for, for example, a Belgian development organisation. This new scheme does not change the rules that allow an employee to retain his entitlement to unemployment benefit if he has previously performed sufficient working days in Belgium. The reference period may be extended by a maximum of 15 years and the three-year period of probationary exemption may be extended by a maximum of 12 years. An expatriate worker who demonstrates fully sufficient benefits in Belgium or in a country bound by an agreement may invoke these two provisions and be admitted on the basis of his previous benefits. However, there was a specific problem for the people sent out by a Belgian development cooperation institution. This was also mentioned last time. For this specific group we have developed a transitional measure, which, as was the case until 30 September 2016, opens their entitlement to unemployment benefit after one day of employment in Belgium, in so far as they submit their claim for benefit before 1 January 2019. An extension to unemployment insurance of the voluntary overseas social security scheme to the National Social Security Office, and thus a structural solution, could be envisaged for this group of workers. This enlargement falls within the competence of the Minister of Social Affairs and requires an adaptation of the legislation. It cannot therefore be introduced immediately. However, I can assure you that I am in favour of it. With the Minister of Social Affairs, I am looking for a quick structural solution. The Royal Decree of 11 September 2016 is in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 883 on the coordination of social security systems. The taking into account of periods of insurance or employment in another Member State shall be governed by the special provisions of Article 61 of the Regulation. However, paragraph 2 of that article expressly provides that work benefits performed in another Member State of the European Union may be taken into account for admission to Belgian allowances only if they have been followed by a period of work in Belgium. The Court of Justice recently recalled this rule in a judgment of 7 April 2016. Moreover, no action for annulment was brought before the Council of State on the basis of a possible non-compliance of the Royal Decree of 11 September 2016 with Regulation (EC) No 883. In addition, on 13 December 2016, the European Commission itself proposed, as part of a revision of the EU legislation on the coordination of social security, that a minimum insurance period of three months in the Member State of last activity be required for entitlement to all benefits. Mrs Fonck, I can give you the exact details of this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u20	Minister, objectively, next time, spare yourself the trouble of rereading the answer you have already given me a few weeks or months before! Just refer to it, it'll be easier! It was really the word-for-word reading of the answer that was formulated on 23 November. I still want to be positive. However, I hear that the debate is under way and that you are looking for a solution with Mrs De Block. I want to trust you. In any case, I hope that these discussions will go well and that a solution can be found quickly. Count on me to come back to you in the near future to find out the status of these discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u21	Minister, my reply has two parts. With regard in particular to projects, cooperants, etc., does the royal decree you made on 27 January 2017 which corrects or refers to the decision after 1 January 2019 make it possible to take into account the reality of the cooperants? If so, you have a little time ahead of you, that is until January 1, 2019, to find a structural solution. On the European side, I hear what you're saying to me. I am indeed aware of the European Commission's proposal to amend the coordination regulations and which provides for this principle of a certain amount of work. At the same time, in my view, it is a proposal from the European Commission that is not yet applicable. As it stands, the possible future amendment of the European Commission does not yet change the way in which Belgian legislation is to be adopted in accordance with European law of application today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u22	Mr President, Minister, the recent Royal Decree you issued on the reintegration of disabled workers states in Article 73/1 that the reintegration process does not apply to re-employment in the event of an accident at work or an occupational disease. I have the following questions concerning this particular clause. Why is a distinction made on the basis of the cause of incapacity for work? Why is the instrument of the reintegration plan not used in these groups? For them, reintegration is as important as for other disabled persons. A second, rather technical question is whether the accident at work or occupational disease must be effectively recognised by the accident insurance, the Fund for Accidents at Work or the Fund for Occupational Diseases before the specific clause in Article 73/1 applies, or is that already applicable from the time of the declaration of the accident at work or occupational disease? I ask this question because, in many cases, accidents at work and occupational diseases take a relatively long time, up to a few months, before there is any clarity about acceptance or refusal. In the case of occupational diseases, this may even increase to more than a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u23	Mr President, Mr Spooren, I know that you are following this dossier very closely in all its facets, and this interesting question should not be missed. Indeed, the Royal Decree of 28 May 2003 on health surveillance of workers as inserted in the Royal Decree of 28 October 2016 provides that the reintegration path does not apply to re-employment in the event of an accident at work or an occupational disease. It is not intended to exclude workers who are permanently unfit for work as a result of an accident at work or occupational disease from going through a reintegration process but rather to make a clear distinction between the new reintegration procedure in the health surveillance system, on the one hand, and the existing re-employment procedure in the event of temporary partial incapacity for work as a result of an accident at work or an occupational disease, on the other. In order no longer to delay the introduction of the new rules on reintegration for incapacity for work, I, together with my colleague, Minister De Block, decided not to touch on the existing re-employment procedure in the event of an accident at work or an occupational disease for the time being. Other players such as the accident insurance company or insurance company, Fedris, etc. are involved. However, Mr De Block and I intend to proceed as soon as possible with further streamlining of the rules on reintegration into the KB health surveillance and in the laws on accidents at work and occupational diseases. You can give us your insights as you are also very active in that dossier. This harmonisation will answer some of your questions. As you know, we have been working very intensively on reintegration over the last few days and last weekend. So I assume that this is a next step that my colleague De Block and I will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u24	Mr Minister, first of all, I am indeed following this dossier very closely, sometimes a little too closely and a little too quickly, for which I apologise. I am particularly pleased to hear that it is effectively intended to address this in a subsequent phase and to apply the reintegration plan to it. I believe that, like your colleague, Mr De Block and myself, we should look at the objective, i.e. reintegration, rather than the cause of incapacity for work. I can only welcome the fact that you will do so in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u25	Minister, as Mr Spoorsen always comes back to his subject, I always come back to my subject of Mantelzorg. In the Flemish Parliament, a resolution was proposed and adopted by the majority in order to improve support for carers. This is a commendable move. It is only strange that the resolution comes after the announcement of Minister Vandeurzen's 110 action points. The question then is why the Minister still needs a resolution behind the feathers? I read in the resolution a number of important recommendations, one which I have often brought to federal attention, in particular in order to identify and make available to employers, through tailor-made work, good practices for a man-to-manager's staff policy in government and companies, so that they can support their employees in combining their job as a caregiver with their professional activities without compromising the operation of the company. So there is a lot of movement on the Flemish side, although I do think it has remained very quiet in the last few months in this area. Hence my questions to you, Minister. I have also submitted other recommendations to Minister De Block. We can only fertilize each other and learn from each other. In fact, Minister Vandeurzen also received a motion from Elke Van den Brandt to focus on the capacity of carers. Minister, what guarantees will you offer federally so that the caregiver can combine work and family care? Do you agree with me that when a caregiver is actually recognised as such, unlimited time credits should be possible? You have plans regarding the insurance for carers. You told me this was almost over. How far along are you with that? I myself consider this to be a form of judicialisation, which I wonder if this fits in with Minister De Block's plan to reform KB 78, with which she would like to simplify a number of matters relating to informal care? At federal level, there is a statute for which implementing decisions are still required. I understand that there is still no agreement in this government on what is a very caring patient. At least I understand this from Minister De Block's reply in committee last week. Are you or are you not in agreement? Are you on the same page as your colleague, Minister De Block, in connection with the pauses?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u26	Mr President, after two years we know what Members are doing very well. I know, Mrs. Dedry, that nursing is a matter of concern to you. I have a lot of respect for that, by the way. You have already asked me a lot of questions about this, and I am sure you will ask a lot of them. I am convinced of that too. Quite rightly, because this is a very important sector and activity. I will try to answer your questions. The first question concerns the problem of reconciling work, family and family life. In this respect, there are several leave schemes that already offer many opportunities today to temporarily interrupt full or partial work in order to assist people with certain needs for care. A first leave system which is important in this context is the right to reasoned time credit laid down by the social partners in collective agreement No. 103. In this context, an employee is currently entitled to a 36-month time loan to take care of his child up to the age of 8 years, to provide palliative care and to provide assistance or care to a severely ill family member. For the following two reasons, the employee is currently entitled to a 48-month time loan: to take care of a child with disabilities up to the age of 21 and to provide assistance or care to a child who is a minor severely ill or a minor seriously ill child who is a family member. By legislation on workable work and by a recent change in collective agreement No. 103, however, will soon be increased to 51 months. In addition to the right to reasoned time credit granted by collective agreement No. In addition, a worker/co-worker may, where appropriate, also rely on two thematic leave: firstly, the regulations on medical assistance giving the worker the right to complete those benefits for a period of 12 months or twenty-four months, the other being partially absent to provide medical assistance to a seriously ill family or family member, on the other hand, the rules on palliative leave, on the basis of which the worker has the right to be wholly or partially absent from work for two months in order to provide assistance to a terminally ill person. Note that this palliative leave is also subject to an extension. The law does indeed extend this leave by one month, with effect from 1 February 2017. Here too, the KB which regulates the benefit will enter into force as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. The social partners are, in principle, obliged to carry out an annual evaluation of the time-credit scheme, Article 26 of the Law of 10 August 2001. This problem could, of course, be dealt with if necessary in the context of a further evaluation by the social partners. As far as family care insurance is concerned, I have addressed a question from the field itself. The sector could not find an insurer offering an insurance package that was adequate for them. That is why I acted as a facilitator between the insurers and the welfare associations. I have found three insurers willing to offer a tailor-made package, but of course I did not intervene in the conclusion of those insurances myself. We have taken care of these insurances, but the closure is a matter for the associations themselves, which have to sit around the table with the insurers in order to take out those insurances or policies. That's what happened to me. As far as I'm concerned, I've done my job. The three insurers have been encouraged to offer an insurance product with some incentives. There is no agreement within the government on the family care statute, that is correct. We must continue to work on this. Finally, we can only support the possibility of a grace period. It is important for carers to be able to take temporary leave so that they can relax or rest and continue their care afterwards, while maintaining the quality of life. My colleague Maggie De Block is also very concerned about this. It is trying to make progress in the area of family care. I agree with you that there is still some work to be done and that we must continue to work on it, together with our regional colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u27	Mr Minister, research conducted by your fellow Minister Vandeurzen and the Flemish Government's Research Service shows that the average duration of combining household care is eight years. That is why, despite my praise for giving extra opportunities to extend one or the other care leave by one month, two months, three, four or five months, I call for an improvement. These figures show that the existing enlargement is not sufficient and that, once someone has the status of caregiver and has been recognised in it, unlimited time should be given credit. I shall therefore return to the file. Finally, it is very unfortunate that the government does not agree on the way in which the family care statute is to be completed or on the definition of a person in need of serious care. After all, once that knot has been cut, we can also settle the other issues I am asking for in an easy way. They then result from the implementing decisions. If necessary, my questions are superfluous and I will not bother you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u28	Minister, you know this matter much better than I do. So you know that an employers' group of companies can recruit a group of employees, which allows them to share administrative and management tasks among themselves. The employees can then be used flexibly, as required, in the various affiliated companies. In particular, for SMEs with limited financial impact, these employers' groups lower the threshold for hiring staff. The Law of 25 April 2014 and the Royal Decree of 8 July 2014 significantly extended the scope and possibilities for employers' groups. For example, the scope was extended for workers with a certain distance from the labour market to each type of worker. It was also made possible for employers' groups to employ or employ part-time workers for a certain duration. It also introduced the possibility of using the form of a non-profit association to set up an employers' group alongside the Economic Interest Grouping (ESV). After just over two years, however, we wonder to what extent the change in the rules has already brought results. Quite specifically: have more employers' groups been set up since then? My second question lapses in view of the discussions we have had with regard to the law on workable and manoeuvrable work. That question was worded as follows. Are there any further regulatory changes planned? We saw that. Let us hope that they will bear fruit. I believe they will.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u29	You can see, Mr Spoorten, that you are being served at your beck and call. Since the amendment of the Act on the Employers' Groups on 1 February 2014, 12 employers' groups have been set up to allow workers to be made available to their members. In other words, 12 approved employers' groups were set up over a period of 3 years. In addition, one application is currently pending. There can therefore be a clear increase in the number of applications compared to the period for the approximation of legislation. Over the total time span of more than 13 years, only 13 employers' groups were set up and recognised. In short, in the 13 years before 2014, 13 employers' groups were set up. Since 2014, a number have been added. However, as you rightly pointed out, in the law of 5 March 2017, we made a number of important changes to workable and manoeuvrable work, which I hope will enable many small and medium-sized enterprises to benefit from employers' groups, as in France, where they are a great success. It now applies to 50 employees. However, the King may raise that threshold. Now that the regulation has become so flexible, I hope that many initiatives will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u30	Mr President, Minister, this question was put at the end of last year, but it is still worth coming back to it. It's about the status of the embassy staff. In recent years, hundreds of cases of social fraud have been opened at the embassies in our country. To address the abuses there, the Commission of Good Services was established in 2013, which includes representatives of the social administrations and of the FPS Foreign Affairs in addition to the trade unions. However, according to the consultant-general at the General Executive Board of the Social Laws, this committee is confronted with the problem of the unclear status of the embassies and their staff. This lack of clarity has consequences in the field, such as the lack of payable allowances, working hours which are not regulated and sometimes even staff who are not indicated in social security, etc. In May 2015, you expressed your support for the embassy staff's demand for a better statute. You also committed yourself to looking for a solution. My specific question is what is the state of your investigation into a solution to the legally unclear status of embassy staff in Belgium. Do you have any plans for concrete initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u31	Mr President, Mr Raskin, as regards the legal status of embassy staff in Belgium, a number of slopes are currently being examined. So this is a follow-up question. The Committee of Good Services considers that the extension of the scope of the Law of 5 December 1968 on collective agreements and joint committees would be a good solution. For this purpose, Article 2, 3° of the same law must be supplemented with the embassy staff. Another slope could be the creation of a sui generis statute, similar to that applicable to embassy staff based on Italian territory. The latter must be negotiated with the social partners and with my fellow Members responsible for Foreign Affairs, Social Affairs and Finance. I think the best solution is to extend the law of 5 December 1968. We are currently preparing a law laying down various provisions on work and intend to include a provision on embassy staff. You will shortly be able to discuss a solution in this committee. So the solution is close, at least if you agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u32	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I do not know your specific solution yet, but you have answered my question about the steps, the timing and the direction you think we should take. You're clear. You prefer an amendment to the 1978 Act. I note that concrete steps are already being taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u33	It's the law of 1968, not 1978.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u34	Indeed, it is the law of 1968. You have already taken concrete steps, to the extent that we may even be pleased to have more information and clarification on this shortly. We are all looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u35	Questions Nos. 15536 and 15537 by Mr. Raoul Hedebouw are transformed into written questions at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u36	Minister, as part of its "Vision 2020" plan, BNP Paribas Fortis Bank's management is considering various changes to the remuneration system. Among these, one can discover, in an internal document, the desire to make greater use of the UNIT system. In the bank's internal jargon, these are units that "acquire material goods, services, training or conversion to cash" to the detriment of conventional remuneration. Thus, the part of the salary exceeding EUR 4,700 per month or the thirteenth month (which would be monthly) would be paid in UNITS. As everyone understands, the aim is not to pay social contributions on wage amounts above EUR 4,700. Such a development, if confirmed, raises questions in terms of legality and the impact on the financing of social security, since gross wages (with payment of social contributions) would be transformed into net benefits (without contribution to social security). This is not the first time that the banking sector in general and BNP Paribas Fortis in particular have resorted to this type of transaction and to parasalarial practices, without reaction from the federal government, despite my previous inquiries. I am thinking in particular of the "cafeteria" plans put in place in several banks. Minister, can you tell me whether the transformation of wages into UNITs or other units of this type, not subject to social security, is legal? Should this type of agreement be the subject of a preliminary ruling by the Employment FPS? In what form? Did BNP Paribas Fortis request such an agreement? What was the answer given to him? Can the impact of this scheme on the financing of social security be assessed? What would he be? Do you intend to react proactively to BNP Paribas Fortis' management in relation to this part of its Vision 2020 plan to inform it of your disagreement on this way of doing things? In general, do you have an assessment of these parasalarial practices developed in particular in the banking sector? Do you intend to put in place a strategy to prevent them? Or are you going to count the points from your departmental observation post?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u37	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I apologize because I have only the Dutch text of the answer. I have requested that the French version be transmitted to you. I have the answer in Dutch here, but I will give you an answer in French in a moment. I apologize for this. The Wage Protection Act is very restrictive on payment in kind. The wage is paid in principle in money and only in a few cases may it be paid in kind, for example in connection with accommodation or meals. I would also like to point out that there is a difference, therefore, in terms of flexible remuneration and wage optimisation. The starting point for a flexible remuneration plan is simple. An overview of the total wage package and the corresponding budget shall be drawn up per employee. On this basis, certain wage components, only what can legally be exchanged, can be exchanged for other benefits from a choice menu. Optimisation of choice is central to this, leading to greater satisfaction of the employee. On the other hand, wage and labour cost optimisation are about offering the employee the specific wage components that give a maximum return to the employee with minimum costs for the employer. The government has awarded various wage components a separate social and fiscal status to reduce employee and employer contributions. These benefits are legally anchored. That is the general explanation, which you will find in the law of 12 April 1965. All deviations from the employment protection law in the field are the result of the broad interpretation in social security legislation and in tax legislation. In these areas, there has already been more acceptance than in labour law. For the specific question concerning the treatment of these units and their conversion into benefits or money, I refer to the Minister for Social Affairs. I will work with Mr De Block to see which innovative methods of avoidance and optimisation are being developed today by employers in the context of the harmonisation of the concept of pay. It is certainly necessary to look closely at that and examine it. As far as the case referred to is concerned, I would like to stress that my administration has never given a prior agreement. The only thing my administration could find was a similar question asked by a law firm in the name of a bank other than BNP Paribas Fortis. The answer was clear. The FOD WASO is not competent to rule on individual files. My administration only provides general information and non-binding advice. In the event of a dispute, only the competent court will be able to give a final ruling. It is the firm position of my administration that the introduction and application of a so-called cafeteria plan in a company must comply with all the higher legal standards, including the provisions of Articles 3, 4 and 6 of the Law of 12 April 1965 on the protection of employees' wages and the provisions of all collective agreements which have been declared generally binding in this area. Where there is no explicit possibility to pay wages in a different way, it must be paid in cash. I therefore have serious doubts as to whether the payout in units is in conformity with the Pay Protection Act and will therefore also have my inspection services carry out further investigations. I fully understand the desire of companies to optimise their wage costs. The government is making serious efforts to this end, through reductions in charges and other competitive measures. All other ways of reducing labour costs must remain in line with the spirit and letter of the legislation. For the specific question of subjection to social contributions and taxation, I would refer once again to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Finance. Meanwhile, the French translation of my reply is already in your mailbox, Mr Gilkinet. You'll have it faster than I do. I hope my answer has been clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u38	I note above all that you, like me, have serious doubts about the legality of this scheme and that you have seized the inspection services of the SPF Emploi on this subject. Minister, my question was tabled in January and I note that since January you have not been able to translate the answer. But at least I hope, and that's what matters, that something has moved on and that the doubt that you have will turn into action. I encourage you to seek your colleague, the Minister of Social Affairs, as soon as possible. I will, of course, question him, too. But if you let it happen, it will be a particularly serious and potentially costly precedent for social security. You cannot let an employer decide no longer to pay social contributions on wages beyond, in this case, 4,700 euros. It's very serious. This could completely unbalance our social security system; it could be even more unbalanced than it is. When we see that there is a social security deficit tomorrow, we will be told once again that savings must be made on expenditure in this sector, rather than ensuring that contributions are paid properly. The banking sector cannot be considered to be a particularly needy sector. BNP Paribas Fortis has just published its latest results. Very regularly, it is a bank that makes profits in excess of the billion euros, sometimes two billion euros. It refers them to its principal shareholder in France in Paris. I do not accept that this is happening on the back of social security and without government reaction. I took note of the fact that you asked your inspection services to investigate the matter. I will come back to the matter very quickly and I will also question Minister De Block in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u39	Mr President, Mr Minister, a citizen with permanent incapacity for work has called ONEM into question the extension of the right to receive integration allowances. It was pointed out to him that "the Royal Decree extending by an additional year the right to integration allowances for all integration beneficiaries recognised as having a permanent inability to work by at least 33 % or which present problems of the MMPP type and which benefit on this basis from an extension of their right to integration allowances has not yet been published in the Belgian Monitor". It appears that, pending this publication, you have asked ONEM to "take, without waiting for publication in the Belgian Moniteur, all the measures necessary for this extension to be granted without delay, in order to avoid an interruption of the compensation of the unemployed concerned". The correspondent of the citizen in question made it clear that this extension was automatically granted and therefore did not require any particular action by the person concerned. However, the absence of a royal decree extending this right is of particular concern in terms of legal certainty for all persons concerned. Minister, why was this royal order not yet published at the time I filed my question? What are the consequences of this non-publication for the citizens concerned? Do you confirm that the ONEM has been instructed to transmit information on the de facto extension of the law without a legal basis to the citizens concerned and to apply this rule despite everything, i.e. to apply the continuation of the integration allowances for disabled or unfit persons? How are beneficiaries or have they been informed? What conduct will the government adopt for the following years? Do you intend to put in place structural solutions to avoid these concerns among particularly fragile recipients in this case? Why is this order extended from year to year and not indefinitely?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u40	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, on the problem of jobseekers with a permanent disability of 33% or of the MMPP, the government decided to extend the right to an integration allowance for those persons by one year, pending a structural solution. The Royal Decree was published on 1 February 2017, with effect from 1 January 2017, so that there was no interruption in the payment of the benefits. A proposal for a law to remedy the problems of persons with a disability or incapacity for work of at least 33%, by removing the time limit on integration allowances for all their beneficiaries, does not seem to me to be a good lead. The initial objective of this measure to limit integration allowances to 36 months was to encourage young people to seek employment even more actively. If they know from the beginning of the compensation period that their entitlement expires at a certain point in time, it can be assumed that this will have a positive effect in their search for employment. This accountability also reminds them that integration allowances are granted on the basis of studies, not on the basis of work, and that the benefit of such allowances without having contributed to the financing of social security itself cannot be prolonged. This does not mean that we should not help these people to find a suitable job. The competent mediation services have significantly increased their efforts to assist unemployed young people, including in the framework of the European Youth Guarantee Plan. In the annual report of the RVA for 2015 and 2016, we find indications about the outflow to employment for the unemployed person whose benefits are terminated. In 2015, 50% of them worked within the following six months. For 2016 it was 53.5 %. At the end of those six months, 35% were still at work in 2015 and 40.3 % in 2016. I do not think it is acceptable that people with MMPP, or 33% of those who are inclined to work, should no longer have any right to an income after the end of their credit for benefits. In many cases they are not eligible for a replacement income from the Social Security Office. I want to find a structural solution for this specific group within the limits of broad social security and therefore open a debate on the sixth pillar. This will not be the first time such a debate will be conducted. However, this time, in consultation with all the federal and regional ministers involved, I hope to find a lasting and adequate solution, linking a decent replacement income with maximum support for labour market integration. With regard to your question on the KUL study, I can inform you that I have just received the provisional conclusions. They are currently being examined by my services. I have learned that KUL will publish the report on Friday, March 24.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u41	Minister, there are two debates. The first is of a general nature and relates to the time limitation of integration allowances for young people, which you present as a measure which should encourage them to seek work. But assume, with the government, that this is only an economic measure taken at the expense of a fragile population. It is sufficient, moreover, to consult the exclusion statistics to see that certain regions are in a situation of non-employment. We can search as long as we want a job that doesn't exist, we won't find it. As the most recent statistics show, tens of thousands of young people have been excluded from the benefit of integration benefits. This allows you to then declare that the unemployment rate is improving. But it is improving, not because jobs are created, but because of exclusions. So there is no reason to rejoice! With regard to integration allowances which should be guaranteed indefinitely to persons who are unable to work because of disability or who suffer from structural incapacity for work, it is not acceptable for their situation to be called into question on an annual basis and for royal decrees establishing a legal basis to be published late and to take effect retroactively, thereby creating insecurity. As you said, we need to find a structural solution for this audience. I hope that we will not have to review, at the beginning of 2018, the same situation that is being experienced at the moment. Similarly, I hope that I can count on your commitment and that of the Minister of Social Affairs to develop a permanent framework for the benefit of this public too far from the labour market, which can therefore legitimately benefit from an ad hoc protection system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u42	Minister, the regulations relating to artist status have been thoroughly reviewed and have been in force since April 1, 2014. Its purpose was to reform and strengthen the social status of this special category of workers. In addition, this reform has allowed the creation of an Artists Commission since June 1, 2015 within the Social Security FPS, whose main mission is to inform artists of their rights and obligations, as well as to issue documents such as an artist visa, an artist's card or an independent declaration. I would have liked to know, minister, whether an evaluation of the work done by this commission has been carried out. Is the Artists Commission fulfilling its mission? Does it give satisfaction to the artists who address it? If not, is there a plan to conduct an evaluation of this structure? Are there, to your knowledge, points that could be improved? Since it was set up, could you tell me the number of artists who have approached this commission to obtain recognition of their status and the number of applications that have received a favourable response, as well as the number of refusals? The final point is that artists are considered to be full workers but, however, benefit from more flexible rules on unemployment rights. It is my responsibility that many of them, on the basis of ex post facto fees, should be claimed full or partial reimbursement of ex post unemployment benefits for the artistic benefit which has been performed and declared. This leads you, Minister, to suspect, a number of problems with reimbursement, non-payment of allowances, etc. It's a little difficult. Could you provide me with the number of files that have been retroactively actioned over the past two years? What is the average amount of the claim to be recovered by the ONEM? Do you think it is possible to further improve the system, while, of course, guaranteeing the primary philosophy of the unemployment benefit system? Is it possible to make improvements to support creativity as much as possible? If so, how? Thank you, Minister, for the answers that you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all it should be made clear that the issues relating to the functioning of the Artists Commission and its evaluation are the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs, Mrs De Block. With regard to the regulation of unemployment, it should be pointed out that in the case of income without ONSS contributions, under the unemployment regulations, artists may combine the exercise of an artistic activity with unemployment benefits, without any limitation in time. However, this accumulation is subject to a limit of income in the sense that taxable net income from artistic activity exceeding €4,274.40 - the annual limit - is deducted from the amount of unemployment benefits. This calculation shall be carried out annually on the basis of the warning-extract of role. However, in order to avoid recovery, the amount of unemployment benefits is temporarily adjusted on the basis of the alleged income declared by the artist. He or she may at any time file a new return of his or her income in order to adjust the amount of the allowances and thus avoid recaptures. The ONEM does not have separate figures depending on the type of activity, whether artistic or not, resulting in the application of this provision. In the case of a normal wage with ONSS contributions or salary as a statutory employee, the period of work is not compensable. There is a third situation: the artist receives remuneration on the job, from which ONSS contributions have been levied. Another provision is applied, since this remuneration does not only cover the day of service, but also preparation work, repetitions, etc. The conversion rule determines the period that is considered to be covered by the pay at work. This period is determined by dividing the pay for the task by a reference wage. The days that the artist has already mentioned on his control card as working days are deducted from this result. The final result of the calculation determines a period covered by the remuneration, located in the future, which cannot be combined with unemployment benefits. If the artist mentions on his control card the number of days to which his remuneration corresponds to the task, he avoids that, in application of the conversion rule, a future period is declared non-compensable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u44	Minister, thank you for that clarification. You could not answer part of my question because it depends on your colleague Mrs De Block. I will re-introduce my question on this. One aspect may not have been dealt with, but I will read the whole of your answer, which is extremely precise. These are the subsequent rights that the artist enjoyed for a work he performed at a certain time. The typical example is that of an actor who plays a role in a film or even an advertisement. The product is well sold and, long after, receives rights from this work. I think that is a problem in terms of the recovery of allowances. I will come back to this after reading your answer carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u45	Mr Minister, I would like to return to a small file which, of course, you already know from inside and outside, the Major Act. We have already taken steps in this direction, but this is a follow-up call. What's the status? Commissioner Bulc informed you in writing that the European Commission would stop its letter of formal notice on the Major Act. After a long time there would be progress in this case. There were still a dozen complaints from some port companies against the amendments to the Major Act that were implemented. These companies should be the first to be able to respond to the European Commission's position. If we can resolve this conflict, as we have said all along, there is still no concrete solution for logistics and e-commerce in the port. So this is actually a follow-up to the state of affairs. Can we look at a copy of the letter you received from Commissioner Bulc? To what extent do the current complaints of the port companies affect the current procedure? Do you have a look at the next concrete steps in this dossier, the timing and the progress? What is the plan to address the remaining issues of the logistics sector and e-commerce?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u46	Minister, I am also following this dossier and I thought it important to join Mr Klaps in following up this dossier. He really seems important to me. In November, I questioned you in the Committee on Social Affairs about the European Commission's complaint against the Major Act. I'm glad there's been good news for port work. It is certainly a step in the right direction that Commissioner Bulc is actually committed in writing to dropping the complaint. Now we'll see what 2017 brings. We see various attacks across Europe on the rights of dock workers. The opponents of the Major Act will have to use a different tactic, but they will not give up the fight. For example, there are still a dozen complaints from some port companies against the modified Major Act. These companies would also respond to the European Commission's position. In the meantime, the question arises as to whether Spain and Belgium are now linked by the European Commission. As you know, there is trouble in Spain because far-reaching liberalisation is being proposed by the government in response to the condemnation by the European Court of Justice. There'll be fines in the end. The final fact is that the Spanish Parliament has rejected the government's proposal. That's very remarkable. We read in the press that the BTB trade union of the Peeters cabinet was also assured that the European Transport Commissioner, Violeta Bulc, quotes: "The Belgian file does not wish to link in any way to that of Spain." Can the Minister confirm that the European Commission has definitively buried the complaint against the Major Act? Does the Minister think that the current complaints from several port companies such as Katoenatie will still affect the current procedure? How does the Minister view the further development of this dossier? Can the Minister confirm that the Spanish and Belgian dossiers will not be linked together?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hedebouw and Mr Klaps, you are following this dossier very closely, which is very good given that it is an important dossier, and you are even looking closely at the Spanish situation. We're doing the same thing, by the way. I hope that it will be brought to a successful conclusion in Spain, but, as you have just said, Mr Hedebouw, Parliament has rejected it there. There's a bigger problem there than here. What is the situation with regard to the Major Act here in Belgium? As you said yourself, Mr Klaps, Commissioner Bulc sent a letter to the complainants in December last year saying that the Commissioner has the intention to close the procedure and to respond to it. That's the way it is in Europe. I have also heard that the complainants have taken ample time to reply, but that has happened in the meantime. The Commissioner must now, in accordance with the procedure, answer, analyse the answers and submit the complete dossier to the College of Commissioners, which will take the final decision, possibly by the end of April. In short, after the Commissioner had said that she would close the file, she gave the complainants the opportunity to react in accordance with the procedure, which they did at the end of the period with the submission of comprehensive texts. Those texts have now been analyzed. We are now on the eve of the closure of the dossier with a final decision. I hold wood; that could happen at the end of April. I have already been informed that when the file is closed, as usual, the procedure can be reopened if the reforms are not carried out as agreed. It is, of course, our firm will and also that of the social partners to faithfully implement the agreement. There is no one from the social partners who is not convinced of it. So we're in the last straight line. Some companies have indeed submitted an appeal to the Council of State. The procedure is not suspensive. The implementation of the amended legislation is already under way in the field. For example, logistics workers only need to obtain a safety certificate and requests for derogations from shift composition are dealt with more quickly. Of course, the European Commission decides autonomously on the letter of formal notice. With regard to logistics and e-commerce, the government is taking full action to strengthen competitiveness and fair competition in those and other sectors. In addition to the general measures to moderate wage costs, we are also working at European level on stricter rules on posting and coordination of social security with a particular focus on the transport sector. At national level, too, attention has been paid to this issue, with a recent action by the federal prosecutor in cooperation with the social inspection services against social dumping in the transport sector. You've been able to determine that with me. Another measure is the authorisation of night work for e-commerce activities. To this end, we have created the legal framework, and it is now up to companies to make use of it and to develop commercially. The logistics sector in the port area is faced with specific questions, of which we are aware. I would point out that logistics workers can now be recruited without recognition, thanks to the new legislation. It is my intention to take further initiatives in the port areas and beyond in social consultation. Mr Klaps, first of all, as I have always said, I would like to find a solution to the letter of formal notice on the Major Act; we have already had careful discussions with certain operators in the logistics sector to see what needs to be done. I have the impression that the harder I work, the more encouraged I am to work even harder. In great modesty, however, I would like to say that the law on workable and manoeuvrable work and the reform of the 1996 law have cost a great deal of energy to the staff of my cabinet. We only have twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week. However, we will also address this problem. In order to give this opportunity of success, we need to be able to work discreetly and consult with the social partners. Mr Hedebouw, I assume that the Spanish situation will have no impact on the finale that will take place in the European Commission at the end of April. I hope that in Spain one can take an example of what we have achieved here in Belgium through social dialogue. The calm and calm of the Members of this House may also be a source of inspiration for your Spanish fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and your continuing course in European decision-making. Apparently, there is still a procedure to be completed. We have been confronted for a long time with the message that it is okay, but there is always a................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm now writing down the date of the end of April. We will see what will happen at the end of April. It is, of course, best that this period of uncertainty is ended in one way or another. I think we can all agree on that. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on the law of manoeuvrable and workable work and the law of 1996. Both are good laws. You now have the hands free to focus entirely on the port of Antwerp. You will agree with me that there is still a great deal of work to be done in this area. Therefore, I will not fail to ask you for an update from time to time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u49	Minister, I am not a specialist in those procedures of the European Commission. I have a feeling there are two kinds of procedures. Everything that has to do with social achievements takes longer and longer. Apparently, that's a special procedure. Everything that has to do with the destruction of these social achievements is happening very quickly. I don't know if there's a manual for this anywhere. An additional month is added to the procedure for the Major Act. I'm a little worried, I have to be honest. I feel like there's a strategy to drag this on. I hope you're right and everything's gonna be okay. We shall follow it closely. I hope that the decision will not be changed by the appeal. You explained that this action was brought for companies. I hope it all works out by the end of April. Then we can start discussing the law on workable work again, perhaps to take a step backwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u50	Minister, on January 12, 2017 the Labour Court's appeal body decided that Patrick De Meyer, the last owner of Royal Boch, did not have to repay the unemployment benefits received in 2009. Royal Boch is supposed to repay the ONEM. "Census", because the problem is that this company is bankrupt and may well not be able to repay the 72 000 euros, in which case the former workers of the factory may have to pay themselves. The PTB thus decided to mark its support for the former workers of the factory by organizing a demonstration at the entrance of the parking lot (now public, formerly workers' parking) opposite the site where the factory was located before being demolished. This judgment shows once again that the law is made for the richest. The workers of Boch, they have nothing! They're unemployed. They have already been punished once by losing their jobs and are punished a second time. For the PTB, it is out of the question that former workers pay the bill. It would be unthinkable if they had to pay back. We are still talking about sums ranging from 1,000 to 8,000 euros per person. Minister, what are the government's plans to prevent former workers from paying the bill? What are the possibilities for ONEM to give up these sums ranging from EUR 1 000 to EUR 8 000 per person for these workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u51	Mr Hedebouw, during the bankruptcy of Royal Boch in February 2009, most of the employees continued to be occupied by the curator. On the other hand, 39 staff members were dismissed by the curator without notice or compensation and were admitted to temporary unemployment benefits. The unemployment regulations provide for the possibility of provisional admission provided that the employer's employee requires the remuneration to which he is entitled. If the employee obtains the termination allowance to which he is entitled, the provisional benefits go back to the RVA. The company Royal Boch was acquired by Manufacture Royal Boch. At the time of the takeover, it was agreed that the 39 persons in question would be rehired, provided that they would waive their cancellation fee. By giving up their cancellation fee, the employees also lost their right to the bridging fee paid by the Closing Fund in the event of takeover after bankruptcy. An employee who does not apply for a termination allowance or who renounces it may not be entitled to the bridging allowance charged to the Closing of Enterprises Fund. The factory company Royal Boch also undertook to set up a social fund to enable employees to repay their provisional unemployment benefits on the day on which the RVA would claim them back. Unfortunately, that fund was never established and the factory company Royal Boch was also declared bankrupt on 7 April 2011. The RVA subsequently decided to recover the provisional unemployment benefit received by the workers concerned. That decision was suspended pending the conclusion of the current legal proceedings. On 12 January 2017, Bergen's labour court confirmed the obligation for the employees and claimed that they should pay the provisional unemployment benefits received in person to the RVA. The labour court also ordered the company Manufacture Royal Boch to compensate the workers concerned for an amount corresponding to the sums to be reimbursed to the RVA. The total amount of the claim of the RVA is approximately EUR 75 000. The Management Committee of the RVA may waive the sums to be recovered if the employee who has received provisional benefits cannot obtain the payment of the cancellation allowance or the compensation to which he is entitled. He or she must demonstrate that he or she has taken all necessary steps to obtain the termination allowance to which he or she is entitled. This is not the case here, since the workers have waived their right to claim this remuneration. To date, the Management Committee has not had to comment on such a situation. Given the specific nature of this dossier, the services of the RVA are currently examining how this dossier could be resolved in a way that is not harmful to the workers concerned. In the meantime and until further notice, the recovery of the provisional benefit from the employees remains suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u52	Minister, if I understand correctly, "opgeschort" means suspended. I think it's a wise decision. If the workers have given up their notice, it is to revive the company. The situation was paradoxical, as workers were already making sacrifices. Then, when a company ultimately does not operate, they are asked to repay at the level of the ONEM while giving up their starting bonus. The suspension is therefore good news, but we will follow the file closely to ensure that people who have already lost their jobs and given up their starting bonus are not required to repay up to EUR 8 000 at times. We hope that this money will never be claimed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomme's 16079 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u54	Mr Minister, this question concerns an issue that happened to be raised in committee this morning. After all, we discussed the bill I tabled to allow parental leave to be included in one tenth. At present it is possible to include this full-time four months or part-time twenty months or one fifth, one day per week. My proposal was to have it recorded every one-tenth. I am pleased that an agreement was reached by the social partners on 20 December 2016 to support that one-tenth, and I still have a few questions on that. Both Parliament and the social partners recognise the added value of allowing people to take this more flexibly. This also leads to a more efficient way of recording, because now parents may be obliged to take a full day, when they may only need half a day, which would be better for both the employee and the employer. In addition, it will also be possible to take parental leave with two part-time jobs which together constitute a full-time job. At the moment, someone who wants to take half-time parental leave must do so for at least two months. To what extent is it possible and desirable to make it possible to take half-time parental leave for one month? For example, more flexibility is introduced into the recording modes. It is not a question of extending leave, but of limiting the withdrawal modalities from two months to one month. This should also be feasible in the light of the development of the career account, which should give a better view of workers' leave rights. My second question is a more general one. To what extent can you, as a minister, agree to further relaxing all forms of time-credit and thematic leave, so that not only parental leave can be included in one tenth? At present, we have limited this to parental leave in the legislative proposal, but from the point of view of practice and the sector, I know that in other forms of time-credit there is also a demand to be able to absorb it in half a day. That's not possible at the moment. At present, it can only be done for parental leave, because the social partners have only agreed on this. I have already listened to actors on the ground. It is said that it is not an enlargement but simply a flexibilisation. That is why I would like to ask you how you are opposed to this and whether we can possibly achieve it in another phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u55	Mr President, Mr Lanjri, the National Labour Council, in its 2014 opinion, only welcomed the introduction of the 10th reduction in the career as part of parental leave, with the additional condition that this should be submitted to the employer for agreement. In addition, in line with the time-credit adjustments, the NAR calls for the one-fifth reduction in parental leave under certain conditions to be granted to workers who combine two part-time jobs with two employers, the sum of which corresponds at least to a full-time employment. Both proposals are included in the draft Royal Decree, which will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval in the very near future. A further flexibilisation of the forms of inclusion of parental leave was not decided upon. For the rest, the National Labour Council refers to its report No 76 on existing leave schemes and, in particular, to its recommendations on the initiatives in the field of leave schemes which it has issued in the context of that report. In its 2014 opinion, the National Labour Council also explicitly calls for the legislative proposal on the one-tenth career reduction to be amended so that it only aims at parental leave. Moreover, the collective agreement No 103 does not provide for the introduction of a 10th system for adjusting collective agreement No 103 which regulates the right to time credit. The proposed flexibility in the area of parental leave and the other thematic leave should therefore be submitted to the NAR for advice, while flexibility in time credit requires a new adaptation of the collective agreement number 103 by the social partners in the NAR.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u56	Minister, I understand that the NAR agrees with the bill that I tabled a few years ago and that we discussed in committee last year to allow a tenth of parental leave. We're working on that now. The NAR has agreed to this. We have also provided for a number of amendments. I had also stated in the statement that it had to be done, of course, in consultation with the employer, so that the employer had to have permission for the one-tenth. You say it will now be limited to one tenth of parental leave. We will therefore work in steps, first realize this and then consider whether this flexibility cannot be extended to other leave schemes. After all, it is not an enlargement but a simple flexibilisation. I believe that this also fits in with workable and manoeuvrable work. That fits in perfectly. However, I do not have any problem with working out the first step and then putting it to the social partners again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u57	Mr Geerts is not here, neither is Mr Vercamer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u58	Mr Minister, according to Blokker's restructuring plan, 36 shops would be closed in Flanders, including those of Aarschot, Deinze, Diksmuide, Eeklo, Ghent and Hasselt. In Wallonia there are 25 and in Brussels 7. When the news got out, Brussels' public representative Youssef Handichi of the PVDA immediately went to the employees. For workers, the threat of closure is confusion and uncertainty. They also told us about inhumane working conditions. For example, a servant says: "In our shop there are ten permanent employees, but also they only have a contract for twelve hours. The hours we perform more are attachments to our contract that change every month: sometimes 8 hours, sometimes 10 hours. Blokker also has young people in training all the time. They get 600 euros from the VDAB, or Actiris in Brussels and Forem in Wallonia, and 200 euros from Blokker. For Blokker these are very cheap labour. They have a three-month contract. Blokker always promises them a contract of unlimited duration, but these people never get it." Blokker employs young people on a massive scale with highly subsidised traineeship contracts either through the Brussels Youth Guarantee system or through individual vocational training (ILO), with only a productivity premium in addition to their unemployment benefit. The PVDA has always considered these traineeships as gifts to employers and has repeatedly asked trainees to be paid like other employees according to the baremas of the collective agreement in the sector. I have the following questions. Do you have an overview of the number of trainees who have worked in the shops of Blokker under the Youth Guarantee mechanism, IBO or other subsidised traineeship contracts? How much money have been spent by the regional employment services Actiris, VDAB and Forem, the RVA or the OCMW and who has ensured that Blokker can benefit from heavily subsidised workers? Are you prepared to examine how the social protection of these workers could be extended and how they could be better protected against dismissal? Are you prepared to examine, in consultation with the Regions, how to recover the aid granted under traineeship programmes from a large-scale restructuring company?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u59	Mr Hedebouw, I can be quite brief, although this is a very unfortunate matter. As I usually do when a collective resignation is announced, I have invited the management to my office for a text and explanation. I did this a good month ago in the Blokker file. The text and explanation were given at that time. Collective redundancies will be undertaken and consultation with the trade unions will be initiated with respect for the Renault Act. I assume that this consultation has been initiated in the meantime. In such cases, I always use the same theorem. I do not intervene if, within the framework of the Renault Act, the social dialogue in the company is proceeding correctly. From the moment that this is not the case, the management is invited again for a conversation. Afterwards, the trade unions are invited to give their views on the matter. After the meeting, I didn't get any further questions. Nor do I have the information you are asking for. The file will be followed up on my cabinet. However, I do not intervene until there are incidents in the social dialogue within the company. I want to give the meeting every opportunity. As soon as you or others have information that makes an intervention necessary, I will do so. Until further notice, however, this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is indeed up to the trade unions and job providers to discuss with each other. That being said, an assessment should be made from the federal and regional levels. Indeed, this company has received a great deal of aid. I am thinking in particular of employment aid. Today, however, this multinational is firing to optimize its figure. It would therefore be appropriate to examine the need to condition the granting of such aid. We will follow this file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u61	Mr President, we have agreed to hold a joint meeting of the Social Affairs and Economy Committees in a few weeks' time to take stock of this issue. However, I would like to hear you today on a question which I tabled on 6 February, given the relative delays between the submission of questions and the answers. Minister, since the announcement of the closure of Caterpillar's site in Gosselies, managers of the company have been involved in the development of a project to maintain an on-site activity. They expected to preserve 350 direct jobs as well as about 100 jobs in subcontractors. Unfortunately, the management of Caterpillar swept away this proposal in which the workers of the site, like those of the subcontractors, had placed their hopes. Of the 44 subcontractors listed by Wallonia, some have already engaged in collective redundancies, such as the Yusen and Eutraco logistics companies, or judicial reorganization procedures, such as the Carwall company in Sombreffe. Minister, what information do you have about the evolution of the discussions on the future of the site? Can you tell me what employment consequences you attribute to Caterpillar's rejection of the alternative plan proposed by executives of the company? Are there any alternatives to those developed by these frameworks? Do they benefit from your support or that of the Employment FPS? I know that questions were put to your colleague Marcourt on this very day in the Walloon Parliament. What steps have you taken to support these recovery or business continuity projects? What accompanying measures have already been implemented or have they been planned for workers in Caterpillar and its subcontractors? What are the budgetary and human resources available by the Federal State and the Employment FPS to support the workers concerned and, indirectly, their families?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u62	Mr President, my colleague, as far as the future of the site is concerned, the discussions are conducted by the Walloon public authorities and the forces of the region. The rejection of the alternative plan proposed by the executives will result in the total closure of the site as well as the dismissal of the 1,367 workers and 788 employees, or 2,155 workers, between April and July 2017. To our knowledge, there is no other way to save jobs. In the meantime, a social plan for employees and workers has been concluded. At the present time, the relevant CTCs are being drafted. In addition, an application for RCC from the age of 55 was submitted. It will be examined by the Commission in April. The first wave of redundancies is scheduled for the end of April. The second wave will take place at the end of May. As for the means available to support the workers, at the level of my administration, three conciliators and a secretary of the joint committee supported the negotiations between employers and trade union organisations. They remain available to support the continuation of the process, if necessary. On the basis of our federal powers, an employee of my cabinet also actively participates in the task force.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u63	Minister, the risk of social tragedy is confirmed since 2,155 workers are expected to lose their jobs by July. This is huge for a region that is already experiencing extreme economic and employment difficulties. As a reminder, it is in the same region that you require young people who received an integration allowance to find employment. The federal state and the federated entities must work together on this issue. I am surprised at the information that you have given me and that, to your knowledge, there are no plans to take over when, just now, Minister Marcourt told my colleague Philippe Henry in the Walloon Parliament that two potential partial buyers were currently discussing with the Walloon Region. It must therefore be noted that, once again, there is a lack of coordination. Since an employee of your firm participates in the task force, I encourage him to collect information at the Walloon level because it would be harmful not to seize an opportunity to create jobs. For the rest, I am concerned about the limited resources currently available (three conciliators and one secretary) in relation to the potential loss of employment of more than 2,000 people, which I obviously do not hope, you understand. I am surprised, and I regret the lack of commitment, at this stage, to solutions in terms of the RCC unemployment scheme (previously called pre-pension). I hope that solutions will be found, the ideal being indeed to save as many jobs as possible on a site that does not lack qualities and advantages, because of its equipment and its geographical position, beyond the high qualifications of the workers concerned. This must be a priority for you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u64	Minister, I would like to ask you about the installation of electronic chips under the skin of workers. According to the press – and I myself was able to see it from television reports – eight workers from a malignant company have just been implanted under the skin with an RFID chip. These employees participate in the experiment on a voluntary basis. One of the company's managers said that the device would act as a "key" to "open the front door and give access to the computer of those concerned". If the technology is not new, it seems to be a first in Belgium. In any event, this will inevitably raise issues, particularly in terms of privacy and health. The Human Rights League has rightly been concerned about the potential drifts in the use of these chips. Mr Minister, does this practice seem to you to be in conformity with Belgian and European law? In particular, what about compliance with Belgian laws on the privacy of this "pucing" of workers? Has the measure been the subject of concerted action within the undertaking concerned? Where appropriate, within which body has this consultation been implemented? What was the result? Is there no need to refer a question of principle to the National Labour Council on the subject? It seems to me that this is a major development, worrying about which you could take the initiative to question the National Labour Council to try to have a specific opinion which can lead to legislation. Do you intend to legislate to prohibit this type of practice in the future and to protect workers from a potential generalization?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u65	I will try to give some information about your question. A Belgian company, New Fusion, in Malines, placed a chip in the hands of a few volunteer workers. With this chip, they can open the doors of the company and exchange information. Although this technique is not new, it is the subject of many discussions, including security and privacy issues. In the context of the present Belgian problem, I repeat that this is an entirely voluntary experiment. All legal provisions relating to the protection of privacy must be respected. In this case, we must clearly distinguish between data processing and technology implementation. The data processing situation is clear. The Act of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy and the processing of personal data provides first and foremost that the purpose of the processing must be determined and legitimate. Secondly, the data processed must be relevant to this purpose. Next, the worker must have been informed of the treatment and have given his free consent. Finally, I refer to the more specific rules that exist in the context of labour relations with two collective agreements protecting workers' privacy: collective agreement 68 on the protection of privacy with regard to camera surveillance in the workplace and collective agreement 81 on the protection of workers' privacy with regard to the control of networked electronic communication data. It is therefore within this regulatory framework that the legality of this practice should be examined. If, to our knowledge, the European Court has not yet ruled on the case of fleas implanted to workers, there is nothing to prevent it from finding a violation of Article 8 on the right to privacy, or of Article 3 on the right to physical integrity, of the European Convention on Human Rights if there is any doubt as to the worker's freedom of consent to the implant itself or its purposes in the event of a possible generalisation of the system. In addition, the question of proportionality between the means employed and the intended aim should be placed at the heart of the reflection, as European case law requires. In the present case, the Court will be able to analyse the company's interest in a management facility and balance it with the worker's interest in permanently wearing an identifier under the skin. The second aspect relates to the introduction of technology. According to the Food & Drug Administration, the placement of the chip can also lead to health risks. The person concerned may have rejection reactions against the chip in the form of infection or allergic reactions. The chip could be installed incorrectly, detach and circulate in the body. It could also break. However, my services are already looking at the various aspects of such implants. Since it is possible and likely that the employer would like to use such implants as a means of control, I will seek an opinion from the National Labour Council in order to obtain a clear position from the social partners on this matter. In addition, a wide-ranging debate will have to be held within the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, to which possible proposals will be submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u66	Minister, I am pleased to note that you are going to ask the National Labour Council for an opinion on this precedent. You follow my suggestion. I am surprised that you did not do so, as you have not, on your own initiative, referred the matter to the Privacy Commission or I misunderstood your answer. I think it is the role of a Minister of Employment to be proactive in this respect. It is also the role of a Member of Parliament to question you with regard to such a disturbing novelty. I believe that you cannot leave this precedent unanswered, that you cannot hide behind the free consent of the workers concerned and that there is an urgent need to have an opinion on the subject and to give a signal to the employer concerned and to all those who would like to imitate it, so as to avoid a drift in the protection of privacy and the impact on the physical integrity of individuals. That's really disturbing. We will have to follow this up in the next few days. Have you ever asked the NTC for advice or will you do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u67	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u68	Incessantly? Tomorrow? On your way back to your office?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u69	The letter is ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u70	The letter is ready. I'd like to co-sign it if you wish, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u71	It'll be sent tomorrow. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u72	I fully agree. This question was tabled a few weeks ago and the story has been the subject of various audio-visual or written reports. I wish you'd done this before. But better late than never, minister. I will pay attention to the follow-up you will give to this initiative to question the National Labour Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u73	Minister, Secretary of State De Backer wants to open up the system of flexi-jobs in the hospitality sector to pensioners. It is now necessary to work four-fifths with another employer in order to be able to work in the hospitality sector through this advantageous system where only a social contribution of 25% is paid. That condition is a guarantee that the system does not destroy regular work. The Backer wants to remove them now for pensioners. When introducing the flexi-jobs, my colleague Marco Van Hees strongly opposed this measure. Je le cite: It should be clear, this is the introduction of Macjobs in Belgium that are underpaid and use zero-hour contracts, a law on the size of the big players in the sector. The new flexi contracts do not foresee working time or fixed timetables, they are underpaid with wages of 8.82 euros per hour, well below the lowest barema in a sector of 11.24 euros per hour. It is a blow to our social model that undermines classic employment contracts, sectoral collective agreements and social dialogue. If this measure comes through, the breach in our social system can widen to other sectors. My colleague Marco Van Hees mentioned the possibility of expanding flexi-jobs. That was a year ago. Today, it appears that my colleague has seen the right thing and that the Liberals are proposing to expand the flexi-job system. So my questions are as follows. Firstly, the Minister stated that he ordered a study in the press on the flexi-jobs. Have there been any results of this? How does the Minister assess the introduction of flexi-jobs in the catering sector? Secondly, what is the Minister's position on extending flexi-jobs to other sectors besides the catering industry? What is the Minister's position on introducing flexi-jobs for pensioners? Thirdly, the trade unions ABVV HORVAL and ACV Nutrition and Services have initiated proceedings before the Constitutional Court against flexi-jobs. What's the status? What is the Minister's position on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u74	Minister, I also have a number of questions about this, albeit in the opposite direction as Mr Hedebouw. You won't be surprised. The flexi jobs were introduced at the end of 2015. They turn out to be a success in the catering industry. There are quite a few catering companies that use it, especially the smaller ones. Mr Hedebouw, if you take part in a strike every once in a while, you should have a pint with a catering boss and ask him what he thinks of the flexi-jobs. I haven't met a single caterer who's against it. It is good that you will gain some more experience, and have a beer or a Coke before or after the demonstrations. By the way, it could be a little water. In the meantime, there are quite a few people working in the system. More than 20 000 people have exercised such a flexi-job. Fixed employment in the catering industry has also increased, which means that there is no displacement effect where flexi-jobs would replace permanent employment. Minister, the question is whether this system can be extended to other sectors and groups. One of the ideas is to extend it to pensioners. These are people who have contributed to social security throughout their lives and have built up a pension in return. Those people often find it unfair that when they have a side-serve, the government skim off a large part of that income. We often receive reports from pensioners who receive a tax bill of several thousands of euros. This is often due to the fact that no withholding tax was applied. Minister, I have two questions. When does the government foresee an evaluation of the flexi-jobs system, as foreseen in the coalition agreement? Do you agree with me that an extension of the flexi-jobs system to pensioners is worth investigating?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have received this question before, including in this committee. I'll stay as calm as I can under any circumstances. I replied at that time that it was wise, and also agreed in the government, to thoroughly evaluate the flexi-jobs in the hospitality industry before extending the system to other sectors. I recently announced the study I had requested and she is now also on the website of the FOD WASO. This study can contribute to an evaluation of flexi-jobs in the catering industry. I delivered that quantitative study to the social partners asking them to comment and supplement it with qualitative elements. I asked them to give me their answer by 15 April. I think it would be wise to await the evaluation of the study by the social partners and then discuss it further with knowledge. There's a second element. There's a process of destruction in the Constitutional Court. We must first clarify whether this system can pass the test of the Constitutional Court and then hold the debate quietly. What I can already give you comes from the study and is all well worked out in it, without adding any elements as a minister myself. The President has also referred to it. Firstly, the study states that full-time employment in the hospitality sector is increasing. That is a good thing. Secondly, the number of flexi-jobs remains marginal, viewed within the total employment rates of the sector. That's a literal quote from that study. Thirdly, just over a third of the employees working in flexi-jobs also have their main activity in the hospitality sector. Fourthly, just over half of flexi-job workers performed under the flexi-jobs scheme with more than one employer during the quarter. Fifth, full-time employment in Belgium is increasing mainly in the food and drink establishments, while in the other countries there is an increase in the provision of accommodation. The study also provides information on temporary unemployment and in this context the Brussels catering sector was particularly affected, as a result of the attacks in March 2016. The calculation of the labour costs of a waiter as an ordinary employee, as an occasional employee and as a flexi-job employee is not evident. The differences in social contributions are large. All this is apparent from the study which, once again, has been drawn up in great independence and with great expertise. I would also point out that an important condition for the exercise of a flexi-job is that the employee has at least four fifths of employment elsewhere. An extension to pensioners would mean that this condition would be removed for them. This is, of course, only possible if sufficient arguments can be made as to why this does not constitute discrimination between pensioners and others, who should continue to fulfil that condition. In view of the current complaint to the Constitutional Court, it is all the more important to formulate that argument, which should be built up if necessary, very carefully. By the way, I have recently received a response from OKRA. It's always interesting to hear organizations that group pensioners. Let me quote what I have received: "The statutory pension is a retirement pension and must allow pensioners to live a decent life." Update should be possible for those who can and want to, but it should not be the intention for pensioners with the lowest pensions to be forced to work because their pension is too low. A reform of the rules on social and tax contributions on such incomes, derived from professional activities after retirement age, should be approached with the utmost caution. On the one hand, there is a danger of tax retirement, on the other hand, the costs to the government that the reform would entail should never exceed the revenues. Any additional income should always contribute to the strengthening of the statutory pension. The government should focus on full employment activities for people of working age as a matter of priority. So far the quote of OKRA, the organisation of pensioners. I would also like to add that pensioners in the hospitality sector can work with the status of occasional worker and with the status of ordinary worker, in so far as they respect the cumulation rules. The idea that access to flexi-jobs for pensioners would be the only way to finally get access to work in the hospitality industry is thus a form of alternative facts or posttruth reasoning, which unfortunately are also occasionally introduced in Belgium. As Minister of Work, I am the last to forbid anyone from working, because that would be a contradiction in terms. However, I am responsible for ensuring that this is done in a way that is legally correct and with respect for the rules that guarantee the protection of workers but also fair competition. Of course, the work must also remain workable for all age groups. So I do not see why this would not apply to the elderly in the hospitality industry. In general, we also know that the employment of older people and young people is complementary. In countries where the employment of young people is high, it is generally higher for older people. Getting older people to work is necessary, but above all we mean those who have not yet reached the statutory retirement age. The government is pursuing a high level of employment for all age groups, including and above all to ensure the affordability of our social system. Anyone who wants to continue working after retirement must be able to do so. Of course, the statutory pension must be sufficiently high so that people do not feel obliged to continue working. The study is here. You can look at it quietly. If you have any further questions, I would be happy to answer them. The social partners of the catering industry have been asked to comment on this qualitatively by 15 April. I understand that the Constitutional Court will give a ruling before the summer. With all the material we will have, we will be able to have a debate. Some of them have already made a preliminaries for this. That is their right, but the debate can then take place. That's also the deal in the government, which I'm sticking to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u76	Minister, you have rightly pointed out these opinions of pensioners' organizations. The first question is to guarantee decent pensions. We may find ourselves in a system where people with the lowest pensions will have to work. This competition and the fact of pushing people who are entitled to a well-deserved rest is not conducive. This is a fundamental problem. It would not be positive to send the message that this type of flexi-jobs could be extended to seniors. The cause and effect link you have between a high employment rate in some countries among young people and among older people is not based on any demonstration. They are simply countries where there is a high rate of employment. It should be understood why this employment rate is high. For example, in Scandinavian countries, public services are very present; this may be a path to be explored, rather than reducing budgets for different public services by 10 per cent. Indeed, it would be wiser to increase them to meet all demands. A societal debate would be needed on this issue. We look forward to the opinion of the Constitutional Court on the issue of discrimination, scheduled for June. I hope that the enlargement of employment at the senior level will not take place. The goal was for people to get a solid contract, not flexi-jobs, burger jobs. It is always an easy argument to analyze the situation by the prism of black work. Mr Van Quickenborne, you will not agree with me. Your model is McDonald's and its low-cost job creation to reintegrate young people. I believe in a quality job, it's a matter of company option. In the coming weeks and months, we will continue our debate on the types of jobs we want for our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u77	So, Minister, you are waiting for the answers from the sector, on 15 April, as well as from the Constitutional Court, which I believe is in line with the government agreement. First of all, I find it odd that some call the flexi jobs marginal. It is strange that the creation of 20 000 jobs with zero euro subsidy is called marginal. That reminds me of the words of another minister on significant debt. Those jobs are apparently regarded as marginal, and I deeply regret that. I have looked in recent history for job plans that have been very successful with little or zero euro subsidy. Well, they don't find much. Moreover, the people of the sector themselves should be questioned, i.e. the catering operators and the employees in the catering industry. One should ask what they think. The percentages would be very positive. After all, I have learned that organisations are not always representative of their individual members. Secondly, you refer to OKRA, also an organization which has a certain legitimacy and is of a certain nature. This organisation warns that a sixty-five-year-old should not have to update to keep his or her pension at the level, which is a correct remark. However, I do not see this remark as a question in the flexi-jobs, but in the fact that pensioners are finally allowed to earn unlimited extra income. This has finally been created and made possible by this government, the current majority. I therefore hope that OKRA's criticism does not refer to this, because otherwise we may also have to question this measure, which cannot be the intention. Thirdly, you're talking about alternative facts. I asked my question the way I asked them. So I did not say anywhere that pensioners after the age of 65 cannot now work in the catering industry. I never said that. However, I note that today they cannot use the flexi-jobs system, which is appreciated by the catering industry. Mr Minister, you are talking about pre-emptions. It's just what you call it. You can talk about preliminaries, you can also talk about proposals. I note that in the government ministers also make proposals, which have not always been discussed with the other members of the government, but which still have to be discussed. Are those pre-emptives? I don't know. In a democracy, it is absolutely necessary for people to make proposals and to find a compromise that will then be implemented. I am very pleased that you said that in countries where there is a lot of employment for young people, there is also a lot of employment for the elderly, something which is, of course, contradicted by our communist friends. There they are confronted with the reality that contradicts them. Professor Marx, who is not a right-wing professor, Mr Hedebouw, has said that there are not enough jobs for low-skilled people in this country. He's got a hundred percent in there. Only, it's hard to say that. And then there are politicians who are attacking McDonalds, a company that has won the prize for best employer several times in our country, not because it is employing workers against dumping wages or conditions, but because it offers an ideal departure to other jobs. Look at the employment rate of new Belgians at such companies, which is much higher than in many other companies. I am in favour of a society where everyone is entitled to work, and not just the happy few who are in the system in which the low-skilled cannot participate because of their rigidity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u78	Minister, I understand you have to leave, but Mrs. Ben Hamou is here with a team of students and a camera. Is it possible to answer her question if she puts it briefly? Then she will be very happy, along with the students who will film.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u79	Mr Minister, as you know, the offices of the ONEM, on Charleroi road in Brussels, have recently been renovated. Since January, staff members have been working and receiving citizens in these premises, while they are still under construction. On Tuesday, 7 February, some officials denounced the move, which they consider hasty. These people, under cover of anonymity, showed the press, photos and videos in support, the conditions under which they had to work: false uninstalled ceilings, cables hanging on staff offices, materials stored next to the seats in the waiting room, cables on the ground, mould on the walls next to the waiting lines, buckets of water on the ground for unconnected pipes. I've had to deal with a burglary, too. In fact, the temporary entrance of the building, ill-advertised moreover, did not escape the burglars, who entered the building. They forced 95 lockers and stole no fewer than 45 computers. Minister, these working conditions are completely intolerable for staff and give a deplorable image of this institution. It is also unacceptable to treat jobseekers who go to this building and who certainly feel that they are second-class citizens, who are not bothered to welcome in dignity. Minister, could you give us the exact date of completion of work in this building? In the meantime, what measures have been taken or are they going to be taken to improve the working and safety conditions of staff and to accommodate citizens in the best possible conditions? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u80	Mr President, dear colleague Ben Hamou, the renovation of the ONEM building in Charleroi No. 60 in Brussels was necessary because its internal condition was no longer appropriate to adequately accommodate external customers and to offer employees better and modern working conditions. The building no longer met current safety and comfort standards. The renovation was scheduled for completion on October 1, 2016. During the duration of the work, the unemployment office was housed in a building near Gare du Midi, rented for a fixed period, the lease taking place on 1 July 2011 and ending on 31 December 2016. However, renovation work was delayed due to unforeseen circumstances. An extension of the lease proved impossible and leases of other premises for a short period of time proved to be very difficult and only possible at a considerable and unjustified extra budgetary cost. These are the reasons why the only option was to move to the renovated building before the renovation was fully completed. However, the return to service took place only when the housing conditions were adequate and the safety requirements in force were met. In addition, consultations were held with staff representatives during several meetings. All staff were also informed both before and after the move. Finally, as far as possible, the suggestions made by staff were taken into account. As for the current status of the renovation work, the situation is as follows. Work in the personnel area is complete and in order. With regard to the area reserved for the public, only a small part has yet to be completed. The first, second and fifth floors and part of the ground floor are fully ready as well. The third and fourth floors were also completed and put into service. The work will be completed in full by April 14, 2017. As regards staff accommodation and visitor reception, the situation is as follows. The building has a ground floor and five floors. At the end of December 2016, a first group of collaborators was housed in the two floors already completed and part of the ground floor. The accommodation of these personnel was in accordance with the federal standard of supervision and the safety requirements in force. Another part of the staff is currently occupied in another ONEM building. In addition, teleworking opportunities are exploited to the maximum and employees actually make use of them several days a week. All staff moved into the building on 21 March, so today. With regard to the provision of services to external customers, visitors use an interim entrance on the ground floor. The reception infrastructure meets the applicable safety and access standards and has a sanitary facility. I think that, for the rest, the management of the ONEM is fully aware that working conditions were not completely optimal during the first quarter but that they were, however, sufficient and of a temporary nature. The management is making every effort to bring this situation to an early end, so that a fully renovated administrative building is available in the very near future, mid-April, with significantly improved comfort for staff and the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u81	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive responses. I would just like to say that I am pleased that the situation is recovering and that workers and job seekers will be able to travel safely to these premises and work in good conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic625x.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes this sitting. We shall deal with the remaining questions at the next sitting, the date of which is still to be determined.
