ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cheron and Question No 18716 18732 by Mrs Caprasse have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u2	I do not see Mrs Jadin immediately, but we will send her a message.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u3	Madam President, out of the 94 questions on the agenda today, about ten are mine. I've just had seven or eight translated into written questions. Perhaps that could be inspiring for my fellow Members. This is a combined question, which, of course, I cannot simply turn into a written question. Mr Minister, with a view to controlling passengers on international trains, it has been decided that there will be safety tracks on the platforms in Antwerp-Central, Brussels-South and Liège-Guillemins where international trains stop. In Antwerp-Central, as I have already seen with my own eyes, a lot of work has already been done. The government has allocated a total of EUR 17 million, both for the installation of the gates and for staff to carry out the checks. We read that those gates, installations with x-rays and metal detectors would be installed from the summer onwards. I understand that they would also be used occasionally from 1 July and that it is not the intention to carry out systematic checks, but to control persons, if the security services consider it necessary. Minister, what is the timing of the installation? When does everything have to be operational? From when will effective controls take place? Which platforms in Antwerp-Central, Brussels-South and Liège will be equipped with these facilities? How will the flow of passengers be controlled? Often there are different accesses to the platforms. Is it intended to install one or more safety installations on each platform? Who's gonna run the security checks? What powers will the auditors have? What measures will they be allowed to take in the case of suspected persons? Finally, what impact will the possible controls have on travellers? Will they have to be present at the station earlier? What advice will be given to the traveller regarding the arrival time at the station?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u4	Mr Minister, Mr Van den Bergh has already given the introduction. I just want to give you the money. At the time, Mrs Galant said that EUR 400 million would be earmarked outside the budget, including EUR 58.5 million for the installation and crew of the x-ray scanners and EUR 23.8 million for the installation of 1 000 additional cameras. There is now an amount of EUR 17 million to enable the installation. I also read that 100 extra Securail agents would be recruited. It is not immediately clear to me whether this is included in the EUR 17 million. With my previous questions, I have already questioned the substance of the use of poles and gates and the equipment of our stations for this purpose. I've been to Rotterdam recently. There are these gates 100 meters from the platforms themselves and the impact is limited. In which stations will the x-ray devices be placed? What will the cost be? How is that funded? By when will the Securail agents be recruited? Has there been consultation with France, the Netherlands and Germany, since these are international trains? Finally, do the measures for international trains have an impact on domestic rail transport? In Brussels-South, for example, there are separate platforms, but not in Antwerp-Central.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u5	Madam President, I will also respond to the other points raised. In view of the situation, SNCB and the police services offer non-systematic, random and risk-based controls. It is essential to avoid as much as possible that terrorists can plan their attacks with knowledge of the measures and facilities and create surprise effects. On the other hand, porticoes should be considered only one aspect among others of a comprehensive safety plan. The X-ray safety devices and metal detection portals will be installed no later than this month and will soon be operational at the stations in Brussels-Midi, Antwerp-Central and Liège-Guillemins. Such facilities are already being used at the Brussels-Airport Zaventem station. In Antwerp-Central, the equipment will be installed on the wharfs of lanes 21, 22, 23 and 24. In Brussels-Midi, they will be placed at the location that gives access to lanes 3.4, 5 and 6. Finally, in Liège-Guillemins, they will be temporarily installed on the bridge side Verviers. The wharfs on lanes 2 and 3 are concerned. The controls will be carried out randomly, in a dual logic of protection and non-disturbation of the flow. This is already the case at the Zaventem airport station. We will not give further details on the conduct of the checks, for obvious safety reasons. With regard to Mr Geerts' question on the financing framework within the specific grants granted to SNCB from the special government envelope for the fight against terrorism and radicalism, the following. This is an investment budget of €15.7 million for, among others, the security dispositives and the cameras and an annual recurrent budget of €6.6 million for staffing and maintenance of the operatives and cameras. Currently, 97 people have been recruited, but eight of them have already left Securail for various reasons. SNCB has numerous contacts with the railway undertakings of neighbouring countries, both at strategic and operational level. This involves not only individual contacts through a working group which it organises with those responsible for railway safety in the other countries, but also contacts within associations such as the UIC, Colpofer or the Community of European Railways. Like the Belgian authorities, it calls for the greatest possible uniformity between the States involved in the same traffic. The European Commission is also examining this issue, but this matter remains primarily the sovereign competence of the Member States. France has also placed doors, while Germany and the Netherlands have not yet taken a definitive position on the issue. Currently, there is no plan to equip other stations in Belgium. Threat analyses of the OCAD will be closely monitored. Depending on this, the position can be revised at the request of the National Security Council. On tracks 1 and 2 of Brussels-South for the train to London, no tracks and thus platforms are reserved exclusively for international train traffic in any of the three stations. Of course, the necessary security measures are taken at the time of an inspection. The aspect of station capacity and the mix between domestic and international train traffic was a specific focus in the design of the controls. It is an element that will also be evaluated permanently from the start-up point. Mr Van den Bergh, I come to your questions. The secure zone is designed to maintain maximum passenger flows. Of course, passenger flows must be fully directed towards a control point at the time of a check. To this end, the necessary signalling shall be provided and the staff shall, where necessary, assist the traveller. In Brussels-Zuid there will be four operatives, in Antwerp-Central there will be two "one platform" and in Liège-Guillemins in the preliminary configuration one. The checks shall be carried out on the basis of an operational protocol between the federal police and Securail, the SNCB security service, each within their existing powers. I cannot go into detail about the measures in the case of suspects, given the nature of the subject. A communication route is being rolled out by SNCB. In doing so, it will be recommended to proceed sufficiently in time for the journey to the platform. The station's customer-friendliness and quality of life are essential for SNCB. It is difficult to predict what customers will experience in random and non-systematic controls. A similar check, which has been going on for months at the Brussels Airport-Zaventem station, is carried out smoothly and does not cause any problems for passengers. However, SNCB advises its passengers to make their way to the station in time and to take every precaution to be able to take part in the planned high-speed train on time in these new circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u6	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I'm still a little skeptical about it. I don't understand why we control Thalys travelers. The Thalys also goes towards Amsterdam, where such checks are not carried out. Why should they happen in Antwerp, on platforms that are mixed for domestic and foreign traffic? Moreover, there are only checks for the Thalys and not for the Benelux trains. However, these are also international trains of a different type or type. The description that passengers must arrive at the station in time, seems to me to be rather cryptic and vague. So we still have to look at how things are evolving. In itself, it does not make much sense for controls to be carried out in one country where the Thalys drives and not in the other. These things will have to be properly coordinated. I also have a slight remark to make. In Antwerp-Central it would be more appropriate to have the Thalyssen arriving on the same platform, either 21-22 or 23-24. Now these two platforms are, so to speak, affected by the new infrastructure. The waiting areas are also sacrificed for the installation of aircraft. The solution that has been found at the moment is not very nice. Perhaps it could be better and more structural in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply and for your willingness to be transparent. Like Mr Van den Bergh, and as I said at a previous committee meeting, I doubt the efficiency of this investment. The other day I was heading to Rotterdam and I thought it was strange that one train, an international train of a certain type, was subject to a check, while the so-called ordinary train, which runs over the route for 15 minutes, was not checked. I am afraid of difficulties in the organization of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u8	Minister, a freight train derailed on the night of May 18-19 in Aubange and caused significant damage: the tracks were damaged for about ten kilometres. The derailment occurred at the height of a bifurcation towards France, on an important axis for freight traffic towards that country. The train connected Ghent to Mortara, Italy, and was to pass through France. Train traffic was interrupted on this axis, but replacement buses were put in place. The driver would have driven without realizing that the last three cars had derailed. Fortunately, there were no passengers on that train. It could have been dramatic. Minister, can you give us more information on the exact causes of this accident? How do you explain that a train can operate without realizing that several cars have derailed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u9	Chairperson: Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u10	Dear colleague, the investigation is still under way, but there is no indication that the infrastructure would be the basis of the derailment. Elements of the derailed cars, namely a brake block and a piece of wheel from the last two cars, were found approximately 13 kilometres upstream of the location where the train finally came to rest, at the height of the Aubange bifurcation. No track equipment, such as a switch, was found that could have caused a derailment. The case investigation therefore focuses on the railway company Lineas, which is in charge of rolling stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have no comment to make. We are waiting for the outcome of the investigation. I assume you'll communicate when all the elements are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u12	There will be a communication from Infrabel or SNCB. The oversight and safety body, the SSICF, will publish its report as soon as it draws the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u13	Mr President, Minister, in one of the projects provided for in the Cross-Border Mobility Scheme between Wallonia and Luxembourg (SMOT), with the association of SNCB, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has decided to extend the Clervaux-Pfaffenmühle section of line 10 of the CFL to two lanes, i.e. the Luxembourg side of the Belgian line 42 connecting Liège to Luxembourg via Gouvy. This is intended to fluidise rail traffic on this line between Luxembourg and the Troisvierges railway station at the Belgian border. It would also have been decided to increase the rate on this line on the Grand-Ducal side. Investments are rarely made by lnfrabel on this line. The clientele is also shrinking, cooled by a frequency of dissuasive trains - one train every two hours. It appears, however, that nothing is planned on this line on the Belgian side, either in terms of infrastructure investment or in terms of the rate of service. Minister, do you confirm this information? What are the planned future investments on line 42? In the particular context of the large region, the number of Belgian frontier workers to the Grand Duchy from the provinces of Liège and Luxembourg is increasing. This number is estimated at 50 to 60,000 by 2030, of which 15 to 20,000 are from the north of the province of Luxembourg and Liège. In the same context, Liège has a strategic position, as a Walloon pillar of the University of the Greater Region, in connection with the University of Luxembourg. Do you not think that it would be desirable to encourage lnfrabel and SNCB to reinvest in this Liège-Luxembourg link, which is structuring for our territories?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u14	Dear colleague, Infrabel informs me that Line 42 has benefited from many investments over the last 20 years and is currently in a satisfactory state. More than 5 million investments are planned by Infrabel between 2017 and 2020. The first step is to modernize signage and then to maintain the track in good condition. It is therefore clear that Infrabel continues to invest in this line. The basic offer on line 42, consisting of the IC Liers-Liège-Luxembourg relationship running every two hours, is supplemented by a state-of-the-art offer provided by the Luxembourg railways (CFL) in the morning from Gouvy to Luxembourg and in the evening in the other direction between these two cities. However, SNCB notes that there are very few passengers crossing the border on both SNCB and CFL trains. It should be noted that, given the higher attendance on Belgian territory, the supply is also supplemented at the cutting edge mainly for commuters between Gouvy and Trois-Ponts and between Gouvy and Liège. The SNCB states that it intends to move towards a minimum offer of one train per hour per week over all of its relations running today, with one train every two hours in off-peak hours, but the single track constraints and low traffic on line 42 did not allow it to plan to switch to the hourly frequency of the IC Liers-Liège-Gouvy-Luxembourg relationship as early as December 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u15	Thank you, Minister. It is a shame not to be able to offer a little more. If technically things are not possible, I can understand. We hope that in the future we can find other solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u16	Minister, my question comes after a question I asked on 17 May about progress in cross-border pricing. I noted in your reply at the time that you had met your Luxembourg counterpart, that the negotiations were still under way and that you wanted to find a solution quickly. At the same time on 17 May, a Luxembourg daily newspaper reported on various developments in the field of cross-border pricing. These advances would follow your meeting with Mr François Bausch on 11 May. The Luxembourg press article announces a reduction in subscription prices. Currently sold EUR 93.5/month, the Arlon-Luxembourg subscription would increase to EUR 80/month. The Aubange-Luxembourg line would increase from €77.5 to €64. It is also announced that you would have decided to make all P+Rs located south of Namur free for people with cross-border subscriptions and that the Viville P+R would be functional for 2019. On May 3, you said that "about 200 parking spaces could be made available as of December 2017". Mr Minister, I am somewhat surprised by these announcements made in the Luxembourg press following a meeting on 11 May, when my parliamentary question was written on 17 May, six days later, and you told me that the negotiations were still under way. Is it the 11th of May that these decisions were taken during your meeting with your Luxembourg counterpart? Do you confirm the announced tariff reductions? When will these rates be applied? Why is the implementation of the P+R in Viville postponed to 2019, when you announced 200 places by the end of 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u17	As I explained to you on 17 May, I did deal with cross-border issues with my Luxembourg counterpart, François Bosch, on 11 May. Among the points raised, cross-border pricing is one of the priorities of our discussions. The announced tariff reductions are on track. However, given that certain aspects still need to be finalized by both companies, in particular as regards the Flexpass, no firm and definitive decision has yet been taken. This must be formalised in the form of a memorandum of understanding which specifies which supports what in cross-border pricing, free parking, etc. With regard to the Park & Ride in Viville, Mr Bosch and I share the same view. The success of its implementation is conditioned by a quality rail offer, as soon as it is put in place. In this regard, given the cuts announced between Arlon and Luxembourg during the Easter holidays and from mid-July to mid-September 2018, it is not appropriate to encourage passengers to abandon the car and take the train to Viville as early as December 2017, and no longer to offer them the service a few months later. So we decided to wait until December 2019, when the work between Libramont and Arlon will no longer impact the service of South Luxembourg. At that time, the Luxembourg loop could be fully operational. In the meantime, particular attention will be paid to the Arlon car park, which is not saturated. Consideration is being given to the free parking facilities at Arlon and other stations on line 165 near the border, with the intervention of the Grand Duchy in the loss of SNCB's revenue. It's all in everything. Flexpass, currently an annual subscription that we would like to see quarterly or even monthly, is the responsibility of the Grand-Ducal. With regard to cross-border pricing, the reduction to EUR 13.5 has already been accepted in principle, but it is still necessary to determine who will pay for it, as well as the loss of revenue for car parks. All this will be put in a convention that will bind us for several years. My colleague and I, together with the CEOs of the two companies, Mrs Dutordoir and her colleague from the Grand Duchy, continue to seek solutions to the problems of mobility at the border. On the sidelines of this question, I can say that, on the side of the Walloon Region, there is a desire to implement a carpool band. A reserved carpool is envisaged for cars that will have at least three people in the car or at peak hours. Provisions made in the Federal Road Code, since July 2016, complement 2003 measures to implement this provision. However, the Road Traffic Code will have to evolve a little bit. We will create a new sign, to make the cross-border mobility of South Luxembourg more understandable, which is as complicated as that around Brussels. I hope that this mobility will see some progress through measures, both public transport and road transport, to be implemented by the actors involved in the various measures envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u18	Minister, things are always learned, including the carpool band. I, for my part, will dig up all the information on this. Then I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u19	On the part of the Regions, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u20	Yes. And there will be the application of the Road Traffic Code, as you said. The Arlon car park is actually paid. It is for this reason that it is not complete. If the rates were reduced, this would help to reduce congestion, including the parking lot in Marbehan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u21	It will be free for those who have a subscription to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u22	When?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u23	From the moment the protocol is signed. It won't be free for everyone. It is within the framework of the cross-border agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u24	All this is a matter of common sense, the rest of your answers too. Thank you for completing this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u25	Mr. Chair, Minister, everyone knows the accident risks of crossing vehicles at grade crossings. In order to improve safety at level crossings in a structural manner, a "2008-2015 level crossing" strategic plan has been drawn up. To achieve this objective, Infrabel's action plan is structured around four axes: the elimination of level crossings, prevention by cameras, the improvement of safety and the awareness of road users. With regard to crossing 60 in Braine-le-Comte, the abolition of crossing 60 leads to innumerable practical problems for farmers. Thus, the deviations provided for in this removal plan make it impossible to access the current agricultural machinery. Their height prevents them from crossing the way from Nivelles to Ecaussines because of a bridge of 3.70 meters. As for RN 57, it is prohibited from farming even if it has its full role, as my colleague Laurent Devin knows. To Soignies, the Pots alley does not allow the crossing of agricultural machinery because it does not have avoidance zones. The Magerdot Road is limited by an even lower railway bridge of 2.80 meters. Crossing the next bridge across the tracks via the Ecaussinnes roadway is impossible for such machines. As for the bridge on Rue des Frères Dulait, it is under construction. I would also like to thank you, Minister. The work has just been completed and, since last Friday, the bridge has been in operation. Minister, would it be possible for you to request an in-depth analysis of the study conducted by TUC RAIL on behalf of Infrabel in this case? Thus, for those who know the area very well, many inconsistencies have been detected. For example, La Selerie is located in the alley at Pots. The Magerdot Farm disappears, etc. Clearly, the experts of TUC RAIL lacked concrete elements for their study. Do they know the orthoplans used for the common agricultural policy, providing real precise mapping of land and access? Thanks to this device, it is very easy to know the potential flows of mobility for each farm. As for the removal of PN 59 from line 117, it simply makes it impossible to access the agricultural cart on the other side of the tracks without having to take the way to Naast whose access to such machines is particularly dangerous for the traffic of other users because of a lack of structural visibility. Another source of concern for farmers about the removal of PN 59 is the impossibility of growing beets on their lands adjacent to the Baudriquin Road. The narrow track makes it impossible to cross the beet crop trucks. For example, sweets impose routes on the harvest cart whose crossing of the PN 59 is an obligation. This problem will be repeated during the silage crops of grass and maize. Allow me, Minister, on behalf of the farmers involved in these plans to abolish level 59 and 60 crossings, to draw your attention to the real impact of such decisions. I understand that it is difficult to reconcile road, agricultural and rail traffic in rural areas, but in the case of FN 60, no accident has ever occurred to our knowledge. Could you consider enhanced security solutions for these two crossing points? They would thus allow free access to modern agricultural machinery whose sizes prohibit alternative solutions proposed by TUC RAIL.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u26	My colleague, first of all, it must be pointed out that the mobility study was carried out at the request of TUC RAIL by an external study office, independent, expert in this type of mobility studies and not by TUC RAIL itself. The aim is to have a neutral and objective view of mobility to the rights of these level crossings. The orthoplans used for the common agricultural policy would be a very interesting source of data for this purpose, but unfortunately the Walloon Region cannot communicate the information either to Infrabel or to the specialised study office because of the law on the protection of privacy. The results of the study were presented by TUC RAIL to the Community College of Braine-le-Comte and to farmers' representatives. In addition, an infosession on the plan to remove level crossings on the municipality of Braine-le-Comte and specifically dedicated to farmers was also held on 23 May 2017 in Braine-le-Comte. With respect to PN 60, located on Naast Road, the study in question shows that this road plays a connecting role between Braine-le-Comte, RN 532 and RN 57 and that it is heavily frequented by agricultural convoys. As presented during the infosession, the study concludes that there is no acceptable alternative route and that the deletion of PN 60 must be accompanied by the completion of a work of art authorizing the passage of convoys without limit of gauge. During the infosession, Infrabel reassured the farmers that it will not remove the crossing 60 until such an alternative art work is built. With respect to PN 59 of the Baudriquin Road, this is an exclusive local service route and is reported as such. The number of vehicles using it is very small and is limited to serving the parcels and properties located along the road. The postponement of a few vehicles in no way alters the flows on the way to Naast, which, as the mobility study shows, is already heavily frequented by agricultural machinery. There is also an agricultural bridge, located a few hundred metres from the crossing in question, which allows you to cross line 117. Infrabel proposed to accompany the closure of Pass No. 59 by the realization of half-tour areas for agricultural and semi-trailer convoys on both sides of the crossing and by the development of the berths to improve the practicability of a turn of the Baudriquin road. These development projects were presented to farmers during the information session.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. You are right, there have been consultations with farmers but, depending on the doubts that persisted, I have allowed myself, together with the Chief of Staff of the Provincial Member of Parliament for Agriculture, to prepare this question. I know how sensitive you are to the agricultural problem, being yourself a mayor prevented from a predominantly rural municipality. I have no doubt that the proposals you have put forward in your answers will help both to address and alleviate any problems that may arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u28	Mr President, I ask for the indulgence of everyone with regard to the temporality of the question. It was a topical issue when I introduced it several weeks ago. Four Francophone MPs will speak. Mr Minister, we learned from the press that there would be special trains for the national stadium King Baudouin on 21 and 22 June, that the SNCB would make available to Flemish commuters five special night trains to bring the spectators back to Ostend, Roulers, Lokeren via Antwerp, Genk and Mol. However, no special trains were made available to the Walloon commuters. According to SNCB, the English group's audience is mostly Flemish. This diverse fact is not an isolated case, but has been representative of rail policy for years. Unfavorable distribution key for the RER, removal of Thalys on the Walloon dorsal and secondary lines: the least we can say is that the inhabitants of the southern part of the country are not encouraged to take the train. This concert is not an isolated case. The SNCB invited the Walloon "minorities" to opt for the car despite the heavy traffic, or to be predictive and to "get out of the stadium so as not to miss their train". With an end of concert around 11:30 p.m. and a final train to Charleroi at 00:14 p.m. at Gare du Nord, the Walloon minority public is urged, as the press reports, to miss the reminders, to travel ten metro stations, to cross the immense Gare du Nord and to jump on its train or to wait all night in the train station. In other words, a fundamental principle of rail transport is that the reduction in the quality of the supply has a direct effect on the number of users. The train as a credible means of transport cannot involve an important risk of being stuck all night in a train station in Brussels. Increasingly, SNCB is raising the issue of the equality of Belgian citizens with regard to public service. It is not acceptable for the linguistic border to become a little more a determinant of quality of service every day. Mr Minister, in general, do you not think that the reduction of supply directly affects demand and that, in this respect, the SNCB, forced by a fiscal policy of austerity, places its lines in the south of the country in a negative spiral? When is the establishment of an equitable distribution of SNCB services in Belgium? How do you explain this difference in treatment between Flemish commuters and Walloons? On what basis does SNCB base its decision on whether or not a city will be served by a special train for a large event? Will special trains in the direction of Liège, Namur, Charleroi and Mons be or have they been set up?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u29	Mr President, Minister, my question was tabled on June 6. However, I would like to say to my distinguished colleague who has just spoken that many Francophones were attending this concert. Indeed, I believe that at least 150 members of the MR were present, including the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders. At the end of May, the press reported that, as part of the Coldplay group's concerts on 21 and 22 June, at the King Baudouin Stadium, SNCB organized night trains allowing participants to return to their homes. It appears that the five special trains put into service at the end of the concerts were only travelling to Flanders. Minister, what information does SNCB use to set up special trains at such events? Does SNCB have any information on the provenance of the participants at the concerts on 21 and 22 June? Who paid the cost of these trains? Are there regular service trains running late enough to allow the Walloon public to return by train in those days? As my colleague knows, in early August, the Ronquières Festival will take place in my municipality of Braine-le-Comte, which is also a fairly important event with about 30,000 participants. In this context, one can feed the reflection so that the stations of Nivelles and Braine-le-Comte – one must know that Ronquières is located between these two communes even if it is in the territory of Braine-le-Comte – can meet the requests of festivalgoers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u30	Mr President, Minister, the context has just been set. Francophones also love rock. At the beginning of June, I had tabled a question concerning a similar situation, Coldplay's concert at the Werchter festival, hoping to observe a jump from the SNCB before the concert, which could have made special night trains available to French-speaking participants. What a pleasure to have these special trains: no need for a BOB, to live the problem of traffic jams! But these trains seem to be exclusively reserved for Flanders. The same Coldplay concert was held at the King Baudouin Stadium and there were surprisingly trains from Ostend, Roulers, Lokeren, Genk and Mol. All right! These cities represent the whole of Belgium, Mr. Minister? How can you explain this, when it was at the King Baudouin Stadium and there were not, at least, the three to four destinations of the major Walloon cities? I feel that you are going to answer me by possibly evoking the timetables of the trains. But this argument is absolutely not on the road. There is real incomprehensible discrimination in the choices made in this area. How can you justify this choice of SNCB, as the minister of a government that remains federal, which therefore concerns the whole of Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u31	Mr President, almost everything has been said. I would like to add that, despite the fact that we can pragmatically consider that SNCB adapts its rail offer to customers, it remains that this practice gives the image of a "flamandized" SNCB, especially since the justification for timetables can be called into question depending on the end of the concerts, which, most of the time, remains uncertain. Minister, do you consider this discrimination to be justified, in this case for the benefit of only Flemish stations? What about the concert of the Irish band U2 at the King Baudouin Stadium on August 1, 2017? Will you do what is necessary to ensure that all music lovers of this kind are satisfied to return home?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u32	Minister, I give you the floor on a new Community dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u33	Mr President, he is not always a community where we think he is. Ms. Caprasse, for her trade missions such as organizing event trains, SNCB responds to a customer's request, namely the event organizer. I would like you to make a good distinction between so-called party trains and event trains. Party trains are, for example, when there is a commercial agreement between an event organizer to sell an integrated ticket event and train included. This is the case for the Dour festival, the Ardentes, Pukkelpop and Werchter. This is a joint SNCB-organiser initiative. Here, this is a completely different case. The addition of additional trains for events is based on SNCB's contacts and talks with event organizers. It's generality. It's Dour, the Ardentes, Pukkelpop and Werchter. In this case, it is a purely economic exercise for which trains are added to the places from which visitors come, e.g. via an analysis of postal codes by the organiser, which has been the case, and for which the organisers themselves intervene in the costs. For the concerts scheduled for the King Baudouin stadium on 21 and 22 June, most of the participants came from Flanders. That's where the organizers identified the most tickets sold. In analysing the top 35 postal codes of the people who bought entertainment places, the organiser found that only three Walloon cities appeared for the June 21 concert (Liège, Mons, La Louvière) and only one for the June 22 concert, Liège. At the request of the organiser of these concerts and with the prior payment of several tens of thousands of euros (the organiser bought four trains without knowing what they would contain), special trains to Flanders were set up after the concerts offering a total of 5,115 seats available. These trains had a occupancy rate of 100%. At the end of this, on the basis of this choice and at my request – I did not wait for you to be questioned, I was myself – the SNCB made an evaluation of its existing offer for the last trains to the major Walloon cities: hours of departure of the last trains, seating capacity and their normal organisation. Based on this and taking into account the scheduled end time of the concert as well as the time required by the metro to reach the Brussels-Midi station, SNCB informs me that the following actions had been undertaken on 21 and 22 June: increase in the capacity of the seats of the last train to Liège (IC 522 with a departure from Brussels-Midi at 00:21). SNCB postponed the departure from Brussels-Midi of the last train to Mons from 23:53 to 00:08. For the U2 concert, the SNCB informs me that the organiser will assign five trains to Ostend, Mol, Antwerp, Genk, Roulers and this again, on the basis of the analysis of the postal codes of the places where the tickets were purchased. I will ensure that the SNCB adapts, at the very least, its offer to Wallonia, as was the case with Coldplay concerts. I would point out to Mr Devin, who is all the more familiar with the matter, that for the Binche Carnival, we have put in service additional trains. This year, the 10:45 p.m. train, which was supposed to bring a large number of people home, was frequented by seventy-seven travellers, despite the communication campaign carried out previously by the City. I sincerely hope that you will distinguish between the initiatives taken by SNCB and those of the organisers. Free for each of them to reserve seats, take the commercial risk, which amounts to several tens of thousands of euros for four or five trains. For events similar to those I mentioned, close contacts are established. You can buy a combined "concert and train" ticket at the ticket counter or, above all, via the internet. I want to put things in context. The organizers are what they are. Their choice belongs to them and I respect it. Depending on the expectations and needs we perceive, SNCB is willing to delay the departure of some trains and adapt schedules, but today there is no question of putting new trains into service without the organizers getting involved and expressing their demand. They are the only ones who have postal codes and know the departure point of passengers who want to hear a group, go to a football game or take part in another activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u34	Minister, I would like to relieve you of this responsibility. This reflects your difficulty in dealing with this question. The truth is clear: the organizer was Flemish. He reserved the national stadium, but those who were at the concert were able to realize that he was Flemish. He booked trains for his favorite audience. Can anyone believe here that there were no Francophones? I take Mr. Flahaux as a witness: there were a lot of Francophones. SNCB is not responsible for this, I understand it from your answer. Very clearly, the organiser favored a part of Belgium, in relation to postal codes you tell us. But to make us believe that there were no Francophones and to tell us that it is wonderful to have moved a train from 11:53 p.m. to 00:08 a.m., I find it difficult to rejoice. We're in a two-speed dynamic. It will be the same for the U2 concert and other events. I hope, like Mr Flahaux, that the organizers of the Ronquières festival will contact SNCB to find out the possibilities of smooth mobility in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u35	My attitude is slightly different from that of my colleague Laurent Devin. First, I should have completed my question on the basis of the minister's answer. I imagine that these trains reserved by the organiser do not generate a net cost for SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u36	They generate benefits for SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u37	It's important to know. And I think that, on the contrary, such initiatives should be multiplied. I have a little bit, minister, you're talking about getting the trains out a little later, but I think it's a little too fair! Everyone will agree that fifteen minutes of delay at the noon station, while the concert takes place at the King Baudouin Stadium, it may be a little too fair. We must not only do it, but also make it known. Binche carnival, in my opinion, is not comparable. A concert ends at a specific time. After that, people come out. Some people are going to have a drink, but we know what time the concert ends. On the other hand, carnival lasts much longer. Some even stay all night. I can imagine it's more difficult. But this was the second time these special trains were planned. I would not delete the formula because it was not a huge success the first time. I am particularly interested in knowing that these trains benefit. I find this rather positive, while SNCB needs money. Now we can regret... It's the same when important concerts, even French-speaking stars, take place in Antwerp. A lot of Francophones attended Celine Dion's concert in Antwerp. In these cases, there must be an agreement with the organizers, which may not have been the case. Thank you, anyway, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u38	Minister, if you have to arrive at 00:08 or 00:21, coming from the Stade Roi Baudouin, given the crowd that fills the spans – the regulars will tell you – and doesn't disperse in a few minutes, you have to catch a subway in the middle of a very dense flow of travellers and then cross thirteen stations in twenty minutes, before riding in the Gare du Midi. I'll sum it up. You never know what time a concert ends. When you compare the theoretical time of the end and the reality, there is a world of difference. All of this to tell you that your answer is to say: "All is well, dear friends! The trains were taken off at 00:08 or 00:21", that's very good, but it leaves the Francophones on the docks. I'm getting to the bottom. I would like to sincerely urge you to take a completely different approach. You have a responsibility in terms of mobility and safety. In this regard, concerts are a major issue. Accidents, as well as the presence of people who are in danger of damaging the safety of others, are obvious realities. Therefore, your responsibility, Minister, is not to accept the introduction of special trains only for Flanders, "and so much worse for others". On the contrary, you yourself must encourage SNCB and the organizers to match the offer to the needs, in order to avoid traffic jams and safety problems, before and after the concerts. You cannot content yourself with passively registering that the organizers want to take care of it only for one side. Quite frankly, I urge you to change your approach to this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I understand that the organiser offers a combined ticket, but this does not exclude SNCB being a public service and that it is up to you to ensure that, even if you do not live in Flanders and come from Walloon Brabant or Wallonia, people attending the concert must be able to benefit from transport facilities on behalf of, as Mrs Fonck says, mobility and security. It is essential not to neglect this part of the population. Even if the train is not full, users will be happy. It is your role to ensure that everyone can benefit from SNCB services in good conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts' 18944 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u41	Mr President, Minister, the press has echoed your plan to introduce an administrative fine regime to combat minor infringements on the SNCB rail network. In concrete terms, a panel of measures similar to communal administrative sanctions (CAS) should be set up to better address the small harms that fuel feelings of insecurity and affect the quality of service to the community. This priority is good news and I agree with the philosophy of your project. Rail users and public service agents have the right to enjoy a safe and user-friendly rail environment on a daily basis. I would also like to ask you the following questions. Could you give us more details on the content of the proposed sanctions regime? What types of offences are covered and with what scale of fines? What officers will be designated to issue these fines? Are any specific training courses planned? Finally, what is the planned agenda for the implementation of this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the previous speaker already outlined your proposal to impose an administrative fine of EUR 100 for leaving luggage. This committee visited the Security Operations Center some time ago. For example, we were able to see how luggage left behind is detected and how it is determined whether or not it is a suspicious package. In an answer to my written question No. 1679 on the number of suspicious packages and bomb notifications, you replied that in 2015 it was about 116 suspicious packages and bomb notifications. However, I did not get a distinction between the two. That is why it was a little difficult to interpret the figures. It seems to me that an administrative fine of EUR 100 to recover a forgotten sports bag is quite high, compared to the EUR 5 administrative costs that one now has to pay. Many people are deprived in such a case; for example, if you leave your sports bag, you have to buy new sports shoes. Other answers to questions I asked show that only one in three lost items are actually returned to the owner. Minister, is the proposal, which was reported in the press, currently being discussed in an IKW or has it already been submitted to the government? What was the advice of the partners? How many suspicious packages were reported in 2016 and in the first half of 2017? Can you tell me the number of lost items reported in 2016 and in the first months of 2017? Can you tell me the number of returned lost items during the same period? What is the amount of administrative costs collected in the return of lost property in 2016? When looking at the answers to my questions, this was EUR 54 400 in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u43	Minister, we have learned that a project is being put on the table to impose an administrative fine of EUR 100 on people who forget a bag or suitcase on the platform of a station or train. In our context of terrorist threats, the aim is to encourage travellers not to forget their luggage because alerts to suspicious parcels cause numerous disturbances on the rail and monopolize many people (police, deminers). Minister, can you give us more information about this project? How many suspicious parcel alerts were issued in 2017? How many suspicious parcel owners showed up after the deminers' work? How to find the owner of a suspicious package?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u44	Dear colleague, my services are currently preparing a draft law on the railway police to introduce the concept of administrative fines into the arsenal of measures available to effectively sanction behaviour contrary to the obligations to use rail transport, including in passenger stations and car parks and to the safety of railway infrastructure. The draft was submitted to the Council of State. Through this project, my intention is not only to put in place a multitude of provisions of the past concerning the use of the train and the safety of the railway infrastructure in line with the reality of today, but also to introduce so-called administrative fines. The bill has been inspired by the regulations on communal administrative sanctions, as you rightly state, but also by legislation that is applicable to other public transit companies in our country. As far as the Belgian railways are concerned, Infrabel and SNCB will be empowered to find certain infringements themselves and to impose administrative penalties, where appropriate. The objective I am pursuing is to provide an effective response to certain offences for which it has been shown that the classical judicial structure was not always able to give the most adequate response possible, in order to avoid a feeling of impunity among the perpetrators and misunderstanding among the public which is too often confronted with incivilities. The project provides for the recognition of monitoring agents and sanctioning agents, as is the case in the municipalities. These two categories of officers will receive appropriate training to carry out their new responsibilities. In this way, the staff concerned will have to have sufficient knowledge and training, while the rights of defence of travellers and citizens will be safeguarded in an optimal manner. I will also ensure that a justified division of powers is established between what is the responsibility of the prosecutor's office to judge whether a particular offence will be prosecuted and what is the sole responsibility of the companies concerned, which is why my bill will also be carried out by the Ministers of Justice and the Interior. It is true that during the preparatory work of the preliminary draft law on the railway police there was an infringement in the event that packages or luggage would be left unsupervised for a longer period of time and that it was not possible to know the owner of them quickly. However, because such an infringement threatened to give rise to numerous misunderstandings in the field, it was decided that such facts should no longer be taken into account in the preliminary draft. Moreover, this type of situation is not specific to the rail sector. It can occur at airports or shopping centres. SNCB identified 110 bomb alerts or suspicious packages in 2016 and 38 for the first part of 2017. It recorded 46,564 reports of lost objects in 2016 and 23,728 in the first part of 2017. The number of lost objects returned in 2016 is 11,429. For the first half of 2017, 5,795 lost items were returned. An amount of EUR 56 790 was collected in 2016 when lost objects were returned as administrative costs. Finally, the statistics on suspicious parcels which have been the subject of intervention by the deminers are the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, I do not have the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u45	Minister, thank you for your full and precise answer to the questions asked. This should help to set up a safe and user-friendly framework and environment for the Belgian rail network.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u46	For the record, Minister, I am not against a system of administrative sanctions. However, as some municipalities imposed an administrative penalty for eating a sandwich on the steps of a church, we must be careful not to undermine the system of administrative sanctions by including silliness in it, even though the draft law will make it. That is why I asked the question whether forgetting a sports bag would result in an administrative sanction, which would indeed be silly. I am therefore pleased that this has already been deleted. When discussing the draft, we will consider whether or not other matters can be deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think indeed, the example you are taking works. The administrative sanctions applied are a good mechanism. I almost want to say "a very good device." Why is he good? Because finally, we can punish those who pollute our environment. Finally, we can punish those who behave badly and who were no longer prosecuted. Mr Delannois, I believe that we must live in a society where we can punish those who do not behave well. Why not say "very good"? Because any system can only work if all the conditions are met. With regard to municipal administrative sanctions, there are training courses which are not provided in the various provinces. I regret it bitterly. It may even happen that you have committed people who can only follow part of what they could follow because the trainings do not exist. If I had a comment to make in the context of the text that will be before you and the steps that you are going to take and in which I encourage you to move forward, it is good to stress the importance of pre-training. You're going to argue that it's very obvious, except that's not what we live on the ground. Sometimes, subsidies can be received before some training can be carried out. I am not talking here about a regional fact. I invite you to make your colleague from the interior – I have already done so with Mr Thiébaut in particular – aware of these trainings that need to be provided in order to be as effective as possible. That is what the citizen is asking for and what we all need here to do together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u48	Mr President, Minister, under the Single European Sky programme promoted by the European authorities, the Minister of Defence and you yourself have signed a Memorandum of Understanding on the co-location of civil and military air traffic control. In concrete terms, the pointers at the Semmerzake military base, located in Eastern Flanders, should move to the Brussels Airport site and work in synergy with their civilian counterparts. The aim would be to eventually achieve full technical and technological integration, as well as shared responsibilities and knowledge among the teams. Minister, can you provide us with more details on the content of the Memorandum of Understanding signed with your Defence counterpart? What exactly is the scope of this file, its specific objectives and its timing? In terms of budget, what is the related financial envelope and what is the distribution between your services and those of Defence? Finally, are specific measures planned to facilitate the joint work of the teams and the overall management of the reconciliation of structures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u49	Dear colleague, the Memorandum of Understanding provides for the co-location of civil and military air traffic control from 2019 onwards and, in the longer term, for the integration of air navigation services in accordance with the Government Agreement. The aim of this Memorandum of Understanding with the Defence is to streamline air traffic control in Belgium in the medium term at the operational, technical and economic levels. It goes without saying that integration, as the ultimate goal, will bring a great deal of benefits in the areas mentioned. The process towards full integration is planned in phases. In 2019 a simple co-location will be carried out, i.e. the military control centre currently located in Semmerzake will be transferred to the Belgocontrol centre in Steenokkerzeel. Military personnel will continue to work on their control system and will only provide air traffic control service but this time, from the same location as civilians. As mentioned before, the total integration of the two units will take longer and is planned for 2030. As regards civil and military meteorology services, joint and centralized activities in support of aviation will also be gradually integrated. In both areas, air traffic control and meteorology, the training of personnel will be carried out gradually. At the financial level, initially, each entity will continue to bear its own costs. Future joint investments will be subject to a key allocation based on the actual use and specificity of each entity's needs. This principle is set out in detail in the agreement. In addition, Belgocontrol and Defence requested a European subsidy for part of the co-location costs to the Executive Agency for Innovation and Networks (INEA) under the Connecting Europe Facility (CEFACT) programme. Special measures are not yet needed, co-location being considered as the first step in preparing for future integration. At this preliminary stage, each party, both Defence and Belgocontrol, will maintain its own air traffic management system and will continue to provide its services separately to its users and customers as it has done so far. The statutes specific to the military and employees of Belgocontrol will be retained, as will the licences and recruitment procedures of each entity. The two sides also agreed to achieve and manage this synergy on the basis of governance consisting of a civilian-military strategic committee and a civilian-military steering committee. Given the importance of this file to the effective management of our airspace and to the economic development of our airports, the Government will do its utmost to facilitate this co-location and the integration of civil and military air navigation services. I could add to this that today or yesterday, a new radar was inaugurated and put into service at the military base in Florennes. It will serve both military and civilian operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer, especially on the radar that was put into service yesterday. These are important issues for Belgian airspace.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u51	Minister, last March – or at any other time – I asked you about the status of the multi-year investment plan. You replied that a consultation had begun between SNCB and Infrabel following the approval of a PPI project by the Board of Directors of Infrabel on February 20th. We were here five months later. I remember that at the time, you made it clear that once this consultation had been completed, the IPPs of SNCB and Infrabel would be harmonised within the framework of the investment unit's work and that it would therefore be possible to specify which projects would actually be planned. Minister, on the eve of the parliamentary holidays, five months after my question, I am simply asking you: What is the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u52	Mr Devin, in my reply of March 22nd to your previous question concerning the IPPs concerning Infrabel and SNCB, I announced to you that a consultation had begun with the first following the approval by its Board of Directors of a new version of the IPP. In view of the consequences of the options chosen in this plan for the development of the network, the government took a decision on 31 March, as mentioned in my answer to Parliamentary question No. 17850. The Board of Directors of Infrabel adopted new options on 25 April 2017, as explained in my answers to parliamentary questions Nos. 18369, 18370 and 18528. The Infrabel Governing Council subsequently adopted, on 30 May, a draft multi-annual investment plan in line with the Government's decision. This important step paved the way for the first measures of harmonization and integration of the transport plan with the investments to be validated by Infrabel. We are therefore in the process of finalizing the final arbitrations, the last reviews of the multi-year investment plan, with the Regions that are integrated into the investment cells, as a result of all the decisions that were taken on March 31 by the federal government and by the various boards of directors, notably that of May 30 at Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u53	Mr President, I have practical information for the Minister. I have no concern with the fact that he answers me entirely in French. On days like today, I imagine that changing one's language is difficult. Maybe it's to make you happy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u54	No, it was simply because there was a joint question from Mr Vandenput.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u55	All right. You know when you take off, but you don't know when you land. Minister, when are we going to land? Are we going to learn this during the holidays or when we are back in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u56	I dare hope to land during the holidays. I would remind you, however, that we are in the process of rewriting the entire management contract that should have been written by the previous government. I insist on that point. The management contract should have been drafted. I left a blank page because it was the last management contract before the directive liberalizing the market in 2023, and all the decisions are taken together: management contract, investment plan, business plan and reforms. I'll introduce you to the whole thing in one block. I don't know if you can imagine the work you've done. I think more than ten thousand pages have already been written. And it's not over! Give me some time. Or I do superficial things, I take the file, I hand it over to the next one and I don't do anything except for the endorsements or I rewrite all the lines of history and I try to prepare SNCB for this important step. As far as the investment plan is concerned, everyone now knows what its contours are. We are finalising the details in Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels. In terms of investment on the lines, we have still had a recent data, not more than 15 days ago. Europe gives us financial resources for two projects. We're going to integrate it now. I still hope to get some good answers. But at the end of September-early October, this very complicated exercise should come to an end. I know your impatience, but wait because you will have it all in good time!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u57	Mr. Chair, the minister's response deserves a reply. I ask a simple question: "When are we going to land?" He says, "During the holidays." Then, at the end of your answer, minister, you say late September-early October. I don't know how long the holidays will last. [[Until then or further?]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u58	I'm gonna make a cut.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u59	I'm very serious! We can laugh at everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u60	I have 31 people in my office. Six have just worked five days to answer parliamentary questions. Everything else has been set aside. This is the regime to which these people are subjected. Point. That's normal. Parliamentary work must be done. As far as we are concerned, this has operational consequences. They've been answering questions since last Friday. It's not a reproach. I've been in your place. But at some point, humanly, with 31 people, it's very complicated. I'm not throwing the stone at you. You can throw it away from me. I wouldn't ask better than to be ready tomorrow. But on the human level, I also have to set rules. These people have the right to return home at the latest at 10:00 p.m. every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u61	Honestly, I don't understand the meaning of your answer. I'm just asking you when we're gonna land. You first say "during the holidays", then "end of September-early October". I'll make you calmly notice. You answer that for two days six employees have only answered questions. Are those who make the multi-year investment plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u62	Yes. I'm sorry, but that's the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u63	Let me go through with it anyway. You're putting this on parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u64	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u65	I hear that some people want fewer parliamentarians, fewer communal councillors, fewer cabinet members. I invite you to question them and then have a completely different point. I was not at all controversial about my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u66	I'm not polemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u67	This is a very simple issue, which is of interest to many citizens in relation to the Multiannual Investment Plan. If you answer me this way, then I will adopt another tone that will not fix either of us. When you tell me that it is up to the government to do so, you will address Didier Reynders, Olivier Chastel and whoever you want, when, as you know, I try to be as constructive as possible. My question was simply about when our citizens would get to know the multi-year investment plan. You would have answered me calmly by saying: '"Mr Devin, we are completing the work and I will inform you as soon as possible', that would have been enough for me. Here, you get angry and that's anything else you're questioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u68	At the end of May, Minister, you announced that SNCB will select an operator to provide Wi-Fi at the stations at the end of the year, i.e. at the end of the year. The partner will be chosen on the basis of answers given by different actors in the sector to the request for information. At a later stage Wi-Fi would be on the trains. With regard to the Internet in the stations, you stated in committee at the end of October that SNCB would examine whether it would be technically and feasible to separate the SNCB network from the Infrabel network and what its cost would be. To this end, a market consultation was launched, which would be awarded in November. Depending on the results of this research, SNCB will further develop its network strategy, as you said at the end of October last year. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you today about a state of affairs. Can you explain the latest announcement of Wi-Fi in the stations and the procedure that will be followed? What are the results of the internet research in the stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u69	Minister, I would like to endorse Mr Lahaye-Battheu's questions and refer to the questions I have submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u70	Currently some major stations are equipped with internet access via Telenet. Travellers can of course also use their mobile phone's data subscription to surf the internet. Up to now, internet services were almost exclusively reserved for high-speed trains in view of their longer journeys and their higher rates than conventional traffic. This explains why internet services were only offered on high-speed trains in our neighbouring countries, not on classic and local trains. Thanks to the technological evolution and the ability to set up new business models, we can now consider offering internet services on the classic trains. SNCB informs me that after the pilot project with the Internet on the train, it decided to continue to do so and to launch a request for information. On that basis, SNCB can then develop a business model. The customer appreciates the importance of moving door to door. In this respect, the importance of the Internet must also be considered from door to door. The customer wants to be able to experience a seamless internet connection from home via the station to its final destination. Following the request for information, SNCB is likely to publish a request for proposal. It is now too early to discuss, among other things, partnerships and tariffs. The decision will be taken by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play. I am a little disappointed, because the internet on the train and in the stations in my opinion does not need to be considered anymore; it is a must. The Internet would greatly increase the customer friendliness of our trains and stations. The absence is a source of daily frustration among rail passengers. So I'm asking you to move a gear up in the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u72	I agree with that. I don't hear much news about the Internet in the stations. Everything stays with the old, namely with an offer from Telenet in the main stations and the 3G or 4G networks. With regard to the internet on trains, I would like to refer to the statements made by the CEO of Proximus, Dominique Leroy, here this morning. She argued that it would be better to use the network along the tracks rather than to invest in Wi-Fi on the train, as Wi-Fi on the train would be a very expensive operation. Of course, the call for information will have to be made clearer. We look forward to new developments, because today it is indeed impossible to get a connection on the train, and the internet seems to me to be available in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u73	Mr Minister, around 15 May, a number of CFL trains could no longer operate on the SNCB network as a result of problems with the certification of CFL equipment posing a lot of problems to commuters who were blocked at Arlon or Kleinbettingen following their departure station. This would concern the new parameters of the 3000, 4000 and DOSTO series locomotives. It comes to my mind that, for 3000 series locomotives, this is a freight type approval and that these locomotives can already operate in ETCS in Belgium. Some locomotives of this type are also used for passengers. And it would be trains towed with 3000 series locomotives that were cancelled. For the 4000 series and DOSTO series, these series could continue to operate in Belgium until they are equipped. The situation would now be restored. Minister, do you confirm this information? What exactly happened? Can you inform us of the planned schedule for the certification of the 3000, 4000 and DOSTO series locomotives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u74	Dear colleague, sporadic removals of trains between Arlon and Kleinbettingen took place in late March, early April 2017. The cause is not a problem in the type approval of the equipment. This is in fact a delay in the training process for Luxembourg drivers of the CFL which has led to a problem of availability of drivers with the knowledge of ETCS on certain days. With respect to the certification of CFL equipment, I can inform you that Type T3000 locomotives have been approved since February 2017 and that the CFL theoretical schedule of equipment and certification is as follows: equipment of all T3000s scheduled for the end of July 2017; equipment and certification of the T4000s scheduled for the end of 2017; equipment and certification of DOSTOs scheduled for the end of 2017. These deadlines shall be notified subject to the conditions laid down in the approval procedure initiated by the Luxembourg railways.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u75	Voorzitter: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u76	Thank you, Minister. These deadlines are relatively close. We hope that the deadlines will be respected. It is quite surprising that it is a matter of staff knowledge that does not allow adequate trains to be made available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u77	Madam President, Minister, this is a question that I asked earlier. [[It relates to the new tariffs for the Arlon-Luxembourg and Aubange-Luxembourg subscriptions and, in particular, the cross-border pricing of line 42.]] It comes to my mind that the citizens of Gouvy and Vielsalm who will not see any change in the new transport plan would also not benefit from more attractive cross-border pricing. Minister, is there more attractive pricing for these users? If so, what will it be? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a tariff reduction for home-working subscriptions to Luxembourg will apply to all departure stations located in the border area. The commuters holding a Luxembourg home-working subscription from Trois-Ponts, Vielsalm and Gouvy on line 42 will therefore also be able to benefit from attractive pricing. The objective of the tariff proposal is to apply the same reduction from all departure stations. This reduction would amount to 13.5 euros. This cross-border pricing is one of the priorities of the discussions between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. However, as I said, no formal and final decision has yet been taken. All this will be formalized in a Memorandum of Understanding between our countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answer. When is this Memorandum of Understanding announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u80	We must meet the Luxembourgers soon. The difficulty lies in the distribution of support (parking, cross-border pricing, etc.).). Indeed, other complicated questions arise. In particular, we must try to avoid the interruption of traffic next year at the initiative of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u81	This measure will apply in weeks, months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u82	They talk about the entire Easter holiday and then from July 15 to September 15.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u83	What about protocol?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u84	I don't know. Like I said, I'm ready. I wanted to go to Luxembourg or Arlon before 21 July, but they are not ready on that side yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u85	Debates of the European Parliament 19007 falls away, as colleague Janssens is not present. Question 19012 by Mr Van den Bergh has been converted into a written question. Mr Kir is not present, so question No 1904 falls. Mr Van Hees is not present for his question 19076, combined with a question from Mr Raskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u86	Mr Van Hees is not present, his question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u87	Mr Minister, a few months ago I asked you an oral question on the reopening of three stops in the province of Liège, as included in SNCB's new transport plan. These are the stops in Seraing and Ougrée on the freight line 125A and in Chaudfontaine on the railway line 37. You stated in your reply that my question was legitimate, but that SNCB did not wish to reply to it before the SNCB board had given its opinion on it, and also at political level the plans still had to be approved at that time. In the meantime, the Council of Ministers has given its approval to the new transport plan. That is why I once again have the following questions. How many train passengers are expected on an average weekday in Seraing? How many of these travellers are new and are not yet using another station? I have the same question for the stops in Ougrée and Chaudfontaine. How much are the investment costs for the construction of the stops? I'd love to have the numbers by the stop. The stops in Seraing and Ougrée are on a freight line. To operate that line with passenger trains, additional trains are needed. What additional train offer is provided to operate the stops in Seraing and Ougrée? How much is that a year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u88	Mr Raskin, as regards the number of rail passengers at the stops Seraing, Ougrée and Chaudfontaine, SNCB tells me that it does not consider it appropriate to answer the question of how many passengers they expect at its stations or boarding stations. In future, it will also consider the results of its travel arrangements to be internal data intended exclusively for its operational purposes. As far as investment costs are concerned, the most recent estimate of the budget for the establishment of the stop site Chaudfontaine is EUR 1.02 million, of which EUR 200 000 will be borne by Infrabel and EUR 0.82 million will be borne by SNCB. The most recent estimate of the budget for the establishment of the Seraing stop site is EUR 0.61 million, of which two thirds are borne by SNCB and one third by Infrabel. The most recent estimate of the budget for the establishment of Ougrée is EUR 0.64 million, of which two thirds are borne by SNCB and one third by Infrabel. As far as the future offer is concerned, the Seraing and Ougrée stops will be served on weekdays by the relation L, Flémalle-Haute/Seraing/Liège/Liers, during a 16-hour amplitude. This represents a daily subtotal of 32 omnibus trains on this relationship. During peak hours, this L-time offer is reinforced by a peak train, per hour and per direction. Therefore, there are eight P trains on one day. So, on a daily basis, 40 trains will serve the stops of Seraing and Ougrée, coming from Liers. SNCB estimated the recurring operating cost for these new routes to be $1.475 million. This is due to staff costs, 21 full-time equivalents for driving and coaching combined, increased electricity consumption and the cost of maintenance of the car drivers who will provide the service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I find it strange that SNCB did not want to answer last time. It was not legitimate at the time because there had not yet been a political knock-off and because the board had not yet taken a decision. For that I could only understand. I note, however, that I am again not getting an answer on the SNCB figures today. I find that worrying, and that makes me doubt whether a proper, potential study and a cost-benefit analysis have actually been carried out there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u90	Président: Jef Van den Bergh. The fact that SNCB does not want to inform Parliament suggests that I should at least ask a number of questions about this. I also note that the cost of investment in the three places and the use of equipment is considerable, all together several millions. With all due respect to a number of modest needs, when I look at the province of Liège with more than a million inhabitants and to my province that is adjacent, with a small 900 000 inhabitants, not such a big difference, I see that today there are 60 operated stations in Liège, all operated electrically. In my own province I see 20 operated stations, half of which still with diesel trains. On top of that, I note that in the capital of my province there is a crummy station, which is unsafe, where people crash and that is not accessible to people with disabilities. If I am well informed, the state of play today is that we might be able to count on a fraction of the resources available for that station in Hasselt to do some patch-up work. I think that is a very painful observation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u91	Question No 19087 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u92	Mr President, Minister, in 2016 SNCB recorded a net negative result of almost 250 million euros, while in 2015 it recorded a profit of 165 million euros. The poor performance is mainly due to a decrease in turnover from €2.232 billion in 2015 to €2.193 billion in 2016, a decrease of almost €39 million, as well as an increase in the company's expenses. Economic debt also increased by 125.8 million to EUR 2.629 billion at the end of 2016. In this regard, Minister, do you confirm these figures reported by the press? How do you explain this decline in turnover? What short- and medium-term measures do you intend to implement to reduce SNCB's debt and improve its revenue? How do you plan to attract new commuters on the rail?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u93	Mr President, Mr Devin, the negative result you are referring to is essentially the non-cash result which, in turn, results from, among other things, the recovery of value on SNCB land. For several years, SNCB's reviewers have requested that the value of its buildings be reviewed - land and buildings, as assessed during the 2014 restructuring. There were doubts as to the reliability of this exercise. In terms of turnover, more specifically, the SNCB informs me that, in terms of trade, 2016 was particularly difficult for the reasons you know. It was marked by the attacks in Paris at the end of 2015 and in Brussels at the beginning of 2016 and by a large number of strike days in May and June. These events have had a significant impact on annual business results, especially in the field of leisure travel. However, in the second half of 2016, the trend began to reverse and the positive growth of travellers compared to the same period of 2015 is again positive. This positive trend continues in the first quarter of 2017. The decrease in SNCB's turnover of 39 million results from a decrease in international turnover due to the filialisation of Thalys Factory from the second quarter of 2015. The difference in result between 2016 and 2015 corresponds to the three months of Thalys turnover that disappeared with filialization. There is therefore no decrease in the number of national passengers. This figure remains stable. Again, there was an upturn in the first quarter of 2017. The increase in its debt is mainly due to a delay in recovering VAT from a Eurofima operation for EUR 80 million. This will be recovered during 2017. I understand, Mr Devin, that with your very interventionist vision of the state, you asked me what actions I intend to take to attract more travellers. However, I would remind you that it is an autonomous enterprise. Under the 1991 Act, the SNCB still has freedom of action. Therefore, it is her responsibility to take initiatives to increase the number of travellers. I would like to point out that, in this context, a significant improvement and extension of the supply of trains has been foreseen in the new transport plan from December 2017. This new transport plan was developed in consultation with the stakeholders and representatives of travellers. Train supply will increase by 5%, a figure that has never been reached in the last 20 years. The offer will be improved for commuters as well as for leisure travel and freight transport. I now expect SNCB to develop a communication highlighting this attractive offer to attract additional travellers. I take as an example the 72 trains that have been added to Brussels and its periphery. Today, these trains are still largely ignored. It is imperative that we communicate, both in the SNCB and in the Brussels Region, on the efficiency and performance in the movement of these trains, at a time when Brussels is often congested, especially during working weeks. Indeed, if a new transport plan requires drawing the attention of commuters to a new timetable, it must also be seen as an opportunity to convince new customers to use the train. SNCB has told me that I fully agree with the desire to communicate better about the existence of this offer. I am convinced that a communication that focuses more on the number of trains and the actual duration of travel will enable motorists to become aware of the advantage of this mode of transport, which represents the future of mobility in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answer. I see you are convinced that communication is important. As you do not share the interventionist role of the state, I will share your conviction with SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u95	Minister, you are telling us that in December 2017, everything will be better. It's a bit like with transfers to football teams and in the season, everyone sees themselves as champion! Let's dream a little more and hope that everything will be better at the end of this year. My question is dated, but you're not mad at me! When you say your collaborators are working on the issues, but my question was tabled a month and a half ago! They have had time to prepare an answer since then, and I hope the work will be done! The work carried out on line 108 Binche-Turnhout leads to an increase in journey time between Binche and Brussels by one hour or even, an hour and a half with two to three changes. Many bingo commuters and the Central Region are therefore obliged to take the car to take their train to La Louvière-Centre and even to Braine-le-Comte. There is a concentration of offers around Braine-le-Comte! Minister, I will change my question, given the current situation and the time that has elapsed since this issue was drafted. Are these works well completed? Can you give us information on the work to be done in the coming weeks or even months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u96	Infrabel informs that at present no large-scale works are planned on line 108 between Binche and La Louvière. Only a few night shifts are planned, with no impact on travellers. Perhaps this is a confusion with the work on line 117 where modernisation works take place between Feluy and Manage until September 2017. On line 117, Infrabel was to carry out switch renewals between Écaussines and Braine-le-Comte, but Infrabel confirms to me that this work is currently complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u97	Minister, I will not bring you to trial on this matter. Your answer is timely, as my question goes back several weeks. I can confirm that there have been serious concerns on line 108 Binche-Turnhout, I am well placed to know. I take note of the completion of this work and thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u98	Minister, at present, SNCB is streamlining services in signal booths. In my area, Ath's signal booth has recently been closed and the staff working there have been sent to Mons. From next June, the staff of Tournai and Mouscron, who are already working together at the Tournai cabin, will also be transferred to Mons. This concentration of cabins creates a problem for workers when moving from their home to their workplace. Trains that allowed staff members to arrive at 6 a.m. or those that allowed them to return in the evening after 10 p.m. were abolished. In other words, the entire staff, about 40 people, will have to go to work by car. Removing workplaces in the region without taking into account the mobility of workers is not correct. In order to allow these workers to get to their place of work by train, is it possible to hand over a train from Mouscron and Ath to Mons, which would arrive in the morning at about 5:40 a.m., and so in the evening after 10 p.m. for their return?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u99	Infrabel informs me that in the framework of an extensive modernization programme, all traffics are ordered from the signal post of Mons for the Western Hainaut. The last phase of the concentration took place on 17 June, with the transfer of the activities of the signalling station in Tournai to that of Mons. On that date, 20 Infrabel agents assigned to serve the Tournai post were transferred to Mons. Fourteen of them have returned to their headquarters. The transfer is therefore limited to 6 officers whose headquarters were in Tournai. As early as 2005, Infrabel took into account the mobility problems created by the concentration of signalling stations. Various accompanying measures have been discussed with recognised trade union organisations. Since 2016, a restructuring allowance has been introduced to cover the costs of any kind borne by the agents on a flat-rate basis. SNCB informs me that the current offer does not allow you to arrive at Mons before 6 a.m. from Ath or Tournai. Returns after 10 p.m. are possible from Mons to Tournai, but not to Ath or Mouscron requires sufficient potential. Unfortunately, the concentration of the signal booths to the Mons station alone cannot justify an extension of the offer, since the estimated gain in passenger terms is too small compared to the additional operating cost, the SNCB tells me. Like any other company, Infrabel can find alternative solutions to organize the travel of its employees at times when the volume of passengers is insufficient to justify a public transport offer financed by the community.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u100	Minister, thank you for your answer, even if it does not suit me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u101	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, recently, in a radio program, you have come back to the situation regarding the inaccessibility of public toilets at the station in Tournai, which has been going on for over a year and a half. First of all, you spoke in the tone of humor that "people go to the toilet on the train, more on the docks, because the trains are more or less on time". So I love humor, but I don't think it's going to be much fun for a lot of people. Indeed, let me inform you that with regard to line 94 Tournai-Brussels, for the month of January 2017, 72.2% of trains arrived on time or with a delay of less than six minutes! Then you come back to the decision to close the toilet. You're saying the Tournai police asked SNCB to shut down these toilets because there were too many incivilities. Minister, can you tell me when this decision of the Tournai Zonal Police was made? At what meeting or interview with the SNCB services did the police make this statement? Is there a record of this recommendation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u102	Colleagues, the question of the closure of the toilets at the station in Tournai has already been the subject of several answers on my part. Each time I have highlighted incivilities and acts of vandalism committed. In order to avoid repeated acts of vandalism and the development of crime near the station in Tournai, SNCB informs me that the local railway police, SPC Tournai, and SNCB's Securail services have recommended by oral exchanges the closure of the toilets. No formal meeting formalized this recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u103	Minister, I do not agree at all. On the RTBF antennas, you were talking about the police in the city of Tournai, which I still know a little bit. I keep telling you we're lying to you. I told Mrs. Galant, who was starting to believe me. When you're on the RTBF's TV show On a Saturday in hell, I don't know if it's you or your services lying, but in any case you're going to end up, you or your services, in hell!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u104	Questions Nos. 19114 and 19115 by Mr. Wouter Raskin are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 19127 and 19128 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux are transformed into written questions. The same applies to question No 19292 by Mr Philippe Pivin and question No 19156 by Mrs Maya Detiège. Questions Nos. 19201 and 19202 by Mr. Bert Wollants are also transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u105	Mr President, Minister, in the SNCB's new transport plan, some interesting projects to improve the mobility of citizens have not been retained. Among these, there is the addition of an omnibus relationship between Tournai and Lille. Through the SNCB's note on the 2017-2020 transport plan for the province of Hainaut, I note that this project has been approved from a strategic point of view – which is quite logical when we see the number of French students going to the Institut Saint-Luc – and from a financial point of view. The reason why this project was not selected is, according to the report, technical. Minister, could you tell me what technical problem this is? Is this a tension problem at the track level on the line, as was noted in 2015? Are short- and medium-term solutions planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCF does not have enough specific rolling stock to increase cross-border services. On the SNCB side, the dual-current AM96 motors capable of running on the French network are almost entirely used on the relations IC Lille-Tournai-Namur and IC 04 Lille-Mouscron-Anvers. Therefore, SNCB states that the stock of equipment is not currently sufficient to add a structural relationship between the two cities and that there is no specific demand from SNCF to increase supply on these cross-border sections. The project proposed by the Walloon Region in the context of the study of the transport plan was therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u107	Minister, I regret this decision. I hear that we are systematically talking about the Europe of citizens, etc. When two cities are twenty-five kilometres away, the border between the two is invoked. I do not think that the Europe of peoples is for tomorrow! When I also hear regularly about Eurometropole, I would like to see concrete rather than great-masses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u108	Mr President, Minister, some time ago a woman would have been seriously injured following a fall of an escalator at Hasselt station. The incident would have taken place on Saturday 27 May in the morning. The woman's injuries were so severe that an ambulance had to come to the scene to take her to the hospital. It is certainly not the first incident in Hasselt's station, where infrastructure is very outdated and dangerous, especially for people who are less mobile. Mr. Secretary, what's your response to the crash at the station? Is this new incident, in your opinion, a result of the station's lack of infrastructure? Secondly, the main stage of the station was also faulty that day, May 27th. As a result, less mobile people had to go down the stairs to the platform. What immediate measures will SNCB take to prevent such incidents, in particular for people with reduced mobility? Thirdly, given the real security risk, will you ensure that the renovation of the Hasselt station will actually be included in the forthcoming multi-annual investment plan? Fourthly, do you not fear that sooner or later the mayor of the city will decide to close the station, given the danger to which travellers are exposed? Fifth, of any incident reported at Hasselt station, SNCB draws up a report. Can you give me an overview of all the reports and reports from the last five years at Hasselt station, please list them by subject and date?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u109	Mr President, Minister, Mr Raskin has already outlined the problem. I went to the trouble of looking at the passenger numbers when they were published, and noticed that there are an average of 7 275 passengers in Hasselt during the week, 2 835 on Saturdays and 2 913 on Sundays. This also gives me the opportunity to express my surprise at an answer given earlier that SNCB apparently does not want to publish these figures anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that tomorrow, when I have some time, I write a five-line text requiring SNCB to communicate the number of passengers in the management agreement. This is essential for Parliament, as well as for the public, to know how many travellers there are and to be able to look at the investments. However, this aside. This cannot be allowed to go beyond party boundaries. I have contacted people who work at Hasselt station and according to them the procedure in case of defective escalators is actually very time-consuming. First one has to call a call centre, then a cutlery is drawn up and one has to wait for approval. This often takes weeks to even months before a repair takes place. The fact that this is done by a private company will undoubtedly mean that more firms will have to be registered. Reference has already been made to a previous investment plan which was sometimes unclear, I admit, but which included the Hasselt station. At the moment, it is still unclear how much money exactly will go to Hasselt. Mr Minister, the restoration of escalators was formerly a task of Infrabel or SNCB, depending on where the escalator was located. Now this appears to be outsourced to external firms, which means that the implementation takes longer. Is that right? Secondly, what was the cost of repairing the defective escalators at Hasselt station in 2016 and 2017? It is reported that these are faulty with the regularity of a clock. Thirdly, as regards investments in Hasselt station, when will the amount of EUR 12 million, which is involved, be spent effectively and to what extent?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB has managed the maintenance of the escalators since the last restructuring, so let me know that it cannot determine whether the escalators are now more inoperative than before. As I explained to my colleague Raskin in this committee on 9 November 2016, the maintenance contract for both maintenance and repairs to the escalators has been awarded to Schindler since 1 June 2016. In the period from 1 June 2016 to 31 May 2017, SNCB paid EUR 18 000 for the repairs and maintenance of all escalators at Hasselt station. In connection with the incident where a person fell on the escalator, SNCB informs me that the person in question has fallen when using the escalator. Mr Raskin, I cannot go into your question to get an overview of the reports, because SNCB tells me that these are internal documents, which are not intended to be distributed. As you know, SNCB has indeed included the Hasselt station project in its proposal for a multi-annual investment plan. Consultations are currently taking place between SNCB and Infrabel, under the coordination of the FPS Mobility and Transport, with a view to harmonising station investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u111	Mr Minister, once again you point out that the maintenance of the escalators, which fail every once in a while, is outsourced to a private company. I have no doubt that this company has the necessary expertise and know-how, but this is a mission impossible for such a company, because that station is rotten to the bone. A structural approach is needed. Something happens every week. Now one of the travelers crashed as a direct consequence of that. So it is really urgent to tackle this problem in a structural manner. I know that the negotiations in the multi-annual investment plan are still ongoing. I am prepared to join you in visiting Hasselt station, Minister, to see for myself what is going on. It is necessary that you, as a minister, throw your weight into the bowl to tackle this problem. I have not received an answer to my fourth question, in particular whether you are afraid that the Mayor of Hasselt will close the station? I can imagine that lady coming into dubio sooner or later. That's where accidents happen. It's unsafe out there. If that lady decides to close that station, we will have a province that is underwhelmed. I have outlined a comparison in my previous question. Then we have a province without a station. That is something we must avoid at all costs. It is therefore important that you throw your weight in the bowl to ensure that at least a serious effort is made to restore that station.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u112	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and hope that after the words the actions will follow and that effective investment will be made in the Hasselt station.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u113	Mr Minister, since 1 October 2016, there has been a legal framework for fast electric bicycles, the so-called speed pedals. Since then, such bicycles have to be registered with the DIV and have a small number plate. Insurance and a bicycle helmet are also mandatory. Recently, these bicycles are also tax deductible for employers and employees who use them for commuting also receive a bicycle fee. How many bicycles have been registered at the DIV since 1 October 2016? If possible, please give the figures by Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u114	Minister, I agree with Mr Van Hecke's question, but my question is a little more detailed. A speed pedal with pedal support and which can drive autonomously can be registered via WebDIV. A certificate from the insurer is therefore required. If the speed pedelec has the main purpose of pedal support and is not able to drive autonomously, except with the garage button "Pedelec" it must be registered via the DIV. The application form for registration of a moped or light quadricycle shall contain a box X15 where the applicant must indicate whether it is a speed pedal and, if yes, whether the vehicle can drive autonomously. Since 15 December 2016, the DIV has no longer dealt with application forms where the box X15 has not been filled in correctly. There are many speed pedelecs that are sold with a garage button, but there are also a lot of speed pedelecs that have a button to drive autonomously up to 15 kilometers per hour. Drivers do not use that button very much in practice, as they can drive much faster with stair support. At the moment, however, that button would be subject to autonomous driving, which would make insurance compulsory at the time of registration. Drivers were usually not aware of this at the time of purchase. There is therefore quite some confusion as to what the precise rules are with regard to autonomous driving and the associated compulsory insurance. Previously, problems with older speed pedelecs appeared in the first generation, so to speak, which never received a European conformity attestation. On a previous question about this, you said that you were in contact with the Regions to find a solution. The regional accreditation must be carried out on the basis of the Federal Royal Decree of October 1974 concerning the technical requirements to be met by mopeds. The amended text of the Royal Decree should be published by the end of this year. However, as the transitional period of registration expires on 10 December 2017, there is a risk that a problem will arise in which that specific generation of speed pedelecs will not be Homologised before the end of the transitional period. I'm getting a lot of contact from owners of such speed pedelecs who can't write their bike in. They are, therefore, beginning to worry and wonder if that will be all right. Finally, legislation around the place on the road may prevent owners from registering. They prefer not to be recognizable as speed pedelec so that they can ride on routes where that type of bike cannot in principle drive today. I am thinking, for example, of the trails or reserved roads whose road signs have not yet been adapted. I have the following questions. I believe that since October last year more than 3 000 speed pedals have been registered. How many of these are speed pedelecs that can or cannot drive autonomously? How many are speed pedelecs with the main purpose of stair support? Can you split this up by county and by month? That way I can figure out the evolution of the entry of those speed pedelecs into our traffic. How many forms has the DIV already sent back to applicants because the box X15 was not filled in correctly? Is a button, where the speed pedal can drive autonomously up to 15 km/h, also "autonomous"? If so, are bicycle dealers sufficiently aware of the need for compulsory insurance? Is it desirable to better define "autonomous driving"? How does the DIV evaluate the registration of the speed pedelecs? Will speed pedelecs be able to be Homologized without a uniform test before the end of the transitional period, at the end of December of this year, so that they can also be registered? Are you, as a minister, aware of the problems surrounding the place on the road? Will you take any measures in this regard? So much for my questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment 3 846 speed pedals have been registered. For more detailed information on the registered speed pedelecs, please refer to the table as an annex. The DIV does not keep records of the number of application forms returned as a result of the non-correct completed box X15. The ability to drive a speed pedelec autonomously or not only affects the insurance. It does not affect the allocation of the specific speed pedal plate with SP plate if the application marked "Pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec pedelec I can only observe that registration is now proceeding smoothly and that the registration of speed pedals is being introduced by owners, bicycle dealers and insurers. A procedure is under way to amend the Royal Decree of 10 October 1974 laying down the general rules for the technical requirements to be met by mopeds, motorcycles and their trailers, which governs the approval of two-wheelers. Thanks to these decision-making changes it will be possible to validate speed pedelecs nationally. At present, the draft decision for advice lies with the regions. The Council of State will then be consulted. If all parties respect the advisory period, an approval of the speed pedelec will be possible within the regularization period. I doubt that the traffic code would be an obstacle to registering the speed pedelec. Moreover, the owners are aware of the consequences if they would not register their speed pedelec. Of course, monitoring is necessary by means of roadside checks by the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u116	Mr President, Minister, I only asked for figures. I would therefore like to thank you for the figures, which are more than 3 000 speed pedals. I would also like to thank you for the geographical breakdown of the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u117	Minister, I would like to add my thanks. More specifically with regard to the problem of the first generation of speed pedelecs, it is important to follow up closely. Those concerned today really feel that they are being sent to the wall because of the lack of the uniformity attestations. So I really hope that the solution with the new adapted royal decree will be resolved quickly, so that those pioneers in the use of the speed pedelec will not be punished for being there quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u118	Mr Minister, I have already spoken in this committee to make you aware of the issue of the transport offer in connection with Pairi Daiza Park. Within SNCB's 2017 transport plan, which will be implemented as of next December, changes have been made to the number of shuttles to reach the animal park. It will indeed be possible, within a few months, to reach Pairi Daiza on the weekend, departing from Ath, by means of a train running every hour. This is good news for the citizens of Picardy Wallonia. Thank you. On the other hand, the plan does not refer to additional special trains to meet a high demand for a visit to the park on certain weekends, especially when the weather is favourable. While it is noted that, in order to reach the Belgian coast in the summer during the days of affluence, some special trains are set up to meet the high demand of passengers, nothing is envisaged on the side of Cambron-Casteau on the weekends when the park is stormed. As a reminder, Pairi Daiza is recognized as the most beautiful zoo in Belgium and is visited every year by nearly two million people. Minister, in order to encourage the use of the train for the inhabitants of Picardy Wallonia who wish to go to Pairi Daiza and therefore to get off at Cambron-Casteau station, is it possible, from a logistical point of view, to put in service special trains from Ath on the weekends of affluence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u119	Mr Delannois, SNCB informs me that it is well aware of the importance of Pairi Daiza Park and its growing success. As such, in order to encourage the use of the train for those wishing to visit, in addition to the increase in the offer planned for next December, SNCB is already proposing a B-tour including the train journey, combined with access to the park. In addition, in its new transportation plan, which will come into force in December, it has made more efforts to plan more trains from the Ath station. The frequency between Grammont, Ath, Lessines and Mons being doubled on weekends, the SNCB will schedule one train per hour on weekends to Pairi Daiza. For trips to non-commercial events, for example on 21 July, or to popular destinations with no commercial purpose, i.e. to geographical areas, the Belgian coast or the Ardenne, SNCB sometimes strengthens its train service to meet exceptionally high demand. Since Pairi Daiza is a private organization, it does not fall under this provision of the management contract for reinforcements in the event of good weather to defined geographical areas. SNCB tells me that, on the other hand, she is already in contact with Pairi Daiza. If the park considers it necessary to set up new special trains, it can still make a request based on its expertise in the number of people accessing the park during the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u120	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I can indeed understand that Pairi Daiza is therefore a private company but it is also true, because of the impressive number of visitors and the whole problem that we sometimes find on the roads, that the problem is to be taken into account. I can see that the door is not closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u121	Mr President, Minister, several senior users of SNCB have told me of their dissatisfaction with the problem of travel between Brussels and Brussels-National Airport. As a reminder, the price for this trip is 8.80 euros. In case of an online order, if the user requests the senior rate, the program automatically debits your bank account twice the amount, i.e. 17,60 euros. At the Claims Office, you are told that the program automatically charges the return fare for seniors. Such a practice could be justified for a day at the sea or in the Ardennes, but for the airport, this may seem absurd. In addition, if at the Brussels-National airport station, always for the same trip, you buy your ticket via an automaton, this one offers you the choice "Mape Mobib". In the present case, users who own the Mobib card for seniors are subject to double rates. Minister, are you aware of these facts, which constitute Kafka'i absurdity, a trap or even discrimination to the detriment of senior users of SNCB? Do you confirm this tariff policy or do you feel that it should be reviewed for the benefit of those users and that, therefore, it should be terminated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u122	Dear colleague, the purpose of the senior ticket is to allow people aged 65 and over to travel anywhere in Belgium during off-peak hours, i.e. from 09:00 in the morning, at an advantageous rate. The fare for this ticket includes a round trip on the same day. For travel to the airport with a senior ticket, the Diabolo fee is automatically added once to the flat rate for the ticket for the journey to the airport, giving a total price of 11.40 euros in the second class. For a possible trip back the same day in the second class, the customer has the possibility to buy a single Diabolo fee ticket at a price of 5.25 euros, which makes him a total of 16.65 euros round trip, plus Diabolo fee for both trips. The standard ticket formula to the airport has been designed taking into account the fact that most of the time, this destination is chosen to go on the plane. Indeed, the standard single-way ticket plus Diabolo fee amounts to 8,80 euros and 17,60 euros for the round-trip formula. With a view to a simple journey to the airport from the Brussels area, the senior ticket is less advantageous than the ordinary ticket for the same destination since it is one of the shortest routes on the SNCB network. On the other hand, this senior ticket remains very advantageous when the departure station is further away, for example Liège, Namur, Ostend or Antwerp. With regard to the example cited, SNCB certifies to me that its online sales system credits the above amounts according to the ticket chosen. The possibility of an anomaly in the calculation of the price seems unlikely. However, in such a situation, the traveller has the opportunity to call on the customer service which will carry out the necessary technical checks. Furthermore, SNCB informs me that the senior ticket is a paper ticket that does not charge on the Mobib card. Finally, she adds that, despite the large volume of online or automated purchasing operations, she has no return of facts similar to those you reported.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u123	Minister, we are not inventing these situations. If I ask you the question, it's because people have lived it. That problem should be taken into account. I put myself in the place of seniors: a euro is a euro and when they can pay a cheaper trip, it's important for their wallet. There are things that are completely illogical in this situation. You said it yourself, when we go to the airport, it's usually to take the plane. A round-trip binger on the same day doesn't make sense. I would like this problem to be resolved. People need to know what they're paying for. Apparently, the information is not clear! I'll come back to you in case I still have this kind of problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u124	Mr President, Mr Minister, while the sixth reform of the State gives the Regions the competence of the driving licence examination, it seems to me appropriate to ensure that the road code is as coherent and harmonised as possible. Currently, many languages other than our national languages, and even English, are allowed for theoretical and practical exams. Flanders has already regulated the use of the authorised languages in the examination of the driving licence and I have learned that an initiative will be taken on this subject in Wallonia. This situation seems particular to me, considering that road signs contain a number of entries which are useful for public road users. It seems, moreover, that a reflection is under way in the Brussels Region, but that it does not necessarily go in the same direction as what already exists in Flanders and what is being prepared in Wallonia. Minister, I would like to know if you confirm the current ability in Brussels and Wallonia to use any language for the practical and theoretical examination of obtaining a driving licence. What are the procedures in place to select interpreters to accompany candidates? In addition, have the Federal Mobility Services already conducted an analysis of this issue? If yes, are changes to the past and current framework defined?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, since the sixth reform of the State, the Regions have the competence to organise examinations allowing access to the driving licence, as defined by Article 23 of the Law of 16 March 1968 on the Road Traffic Police. My administration tells me that, therefore, it is no longer up to it to intervene in this matter. I suggest that you address your question to the regions concerned. I know that some opt for seven languages, others for three, others for four. I'm watching, just like you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u126	Minister, we have a whole range of possibilities as well as for the upcoming elections and how to vote. This will be a multiple choice. I will do that in one of the national languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u127	Mr Minister, since 1 May 2017, the management of the huge bicycle parking of Ghent-Sint-Pieters is in the hands of the private company Apcoa. This is evident from announcement signs that hang in the bicycle parking lot itself. Previously, these parkings were managed by Max Mobile, a non-profit association that mainly employs workers with low employment opportunities. First of all, why has SNCB decided to stop the contract with the non-profit organisation Max Mobile and go into business with Apcoa? Were there any other candidates? If so, which ones were they? Secondly, what amount should Apcoa be paid? Is that a fixed amount or is part of the amount flexible? What parameters may be used for that flexible part? Thirdly, what amount was paid to Max Mobile in previous years? Fourth, how long does the contract with Apcoa last? Fifthly, which parking lots are covered by the tender? Sixth, can you guarantee that nothing will change for the commuters when using the bicycle sheds on Gent-Sint-Pieters?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u128	Mr Van Hecke, SNCB informs me that it has indeed launched a new tender for 36 bicycle points. After all, the previous service contract came to an end. For the cycling point of Gent-Sint-Pieters there were two candidates, namely Apcoa and the vzw Max Mobile. The SNCB chose Apcoa. Apcoa's tasks were clearly defined in a service contract. The commuters will, as before, be able to use the bicycle shed. Apcoa will therefore be the point of contact for users of the bicycle storage at Gent-Sint-Pieters. SNCB lets me know that she pays a lump sum to Apcoa. For example, clear agreements have been made in the area of cleanliness. In view of market competition, SNCB does not want to provide precise figures on amounts previously paid to Max Mobile or to Apcoa. The new service contract has already been concluded for a period of four years. The bicycle parkings covered by the tender are the bicycle parkings around Ghent-Sint-Pieters station, which are intended for train passengers. This approach was presented and approved by the city of Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u129	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. I understand that there are thirty-six cycling points across the entire territory, not just for one station. In any case, I regret that Max Mobile is no longer able to carry out that work, because that is, as I said in my question, a non-profit association that also operates with workers with few employment opportunities. Since you cannot or do not wish to answer the question of how much is being paid to the new private operator and how much was previously paid to Max Mobile, it is also difficult to make a comparison and to find out the precise criteria that led to recourse to a private company. I regret this and hope that the service provided to cyclists will at least not suffer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u130	Minister, in December 2015, electric trains between Herentals and Mol for the first time. Travellers from the Kempen could now track to and from Antwerp in a comfortable, non-polluting train. The project has not been completed. The aim is also to electrify the remaining part of railway line 19, between Mol and Hamont. In this way travellers from the north of Limburg should not always change from a polluting and noisy diesel train to an electric train in Mol. As you know, the further electrification of railway line 19 is already a priority rail project for the Flemish Government. It is often seen as a subproject within the framework of the Iron Rhine. However, I think it would be useful to consider the electrification of the Mol-Hamont section as a separate project which is in progress and which aims to make North Limburg and the Kempen more accessible. Mr Minister, I have a specific question for you: do you agree with the idea that it makes sense to consider the further electrification of line 19 as the completion of a stand-alone project? If yes, are you willing to defend this in that way with Infrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u131	Minister, the Herentals-Mol section was electrified a few years ago. We then tabled resolutions on this matter in this House. I also had a resolution on electrification further to Hamont and Weert, but it was unfortunately voted away. It remains a question mark as to why it was voted down. Many questions have been asked about this in this House. The cost for Mol-Hamont-Weert would be 35 to 40 million euros for Infrabel, earned back by SNCB in three years because it would be possible to reduce energy costs by using more unambiguous equipment. It was said that one would look at the funding possibilities to achieve this. We were even thinking of European subsidies. We are now a few months after the question of European funding. Mr. Secretary, I have the following follow-up questions. Firstly, was this dossier taken into account by the investment cell as a priority investment dossier? T and second, what are the updated costs for Infrabel and what is the updated savings for SNCB? Thirdly, how will this dossier now be financed? When do you think the electrification will be realized? Finally, if the matter is not decided in the short term, what are the main obstacles that prevent it? What are the main obstacles to a short-term decision on the dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u132	Minister, on 2 February 2017, an additional EUR 1 billion was decided to invest in rail infrastructure. Of this, EUR 368 million was earmarked for the Flemish rail priorities. It was agreed in the nuclear cabinet that the electrification of line 19 between Mol and Hamont would certainly become one of the projects. In your opinion, electrification would require an investment of EUR 46.3 million. However, these investment costs would be compensated in the short term by the lower operating costs for SNCB. A grant of €18.5 million was requested from the European Commission under the Connecting Europe Facility. In Limburg's interest a few weeks ago, you yourself confirmed that this grant application was approved by the European Commission. Unfortunately, the further electrification of the line between Hamont and Weert has not been given a priority in the Netherlands. For the time being, therefore, no joint project could be submitted with the Netherlands. Nevertheless, I think that the Belgian decision to electrify the line to Hamant will put additional pressure on Dutch Limburg. Is the approval of the grant application for electrification of the Mol - Hamont railway line by the European Commission final or should other bodies also confirm its approval? What's the timing? What agreements still need to be made on the amount of EUR 1 billion for rail investment? Are these infrastructure works included in the multi-annual investment plan or is it a separate part? What are the next steps to electrify the Mol-Hamont railway line? What is the planning and timing? Is the estimated cost of EUR 46.3 million still current? What are the conditions for receiving the European subsidy? For example, should the infrastructure be carried out within a given time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the European dimension is concerned, in the context of the Connecting Europe Facility programme, between February and June, the various application files, including the electrification of the Mol/Hamont line, were evaluated by the European Commission. A few weeks ago, the Member States received the results of the evaluation. On the basis of the results, I can confirm that the file "Electrification of the railway line Mol' Weert, Belgian part-session was selected by the European Commission to receive a grant of EUR 18.52 million. On 6 July, the results were formally validated by the representatives of the Member States following the Connecting Europe Facility programme. The results must now be submitted to the European Parliament. In September, discussions will begin between Infrabel and INEA, the European Commission's agency responsible for managing the Connecting Europe Facility programme, in order to conclude a grant agreement for that project. The grant agreement will include the cost of the project, European co-financing and planning. It is clear that the work of what is funded by the European Commission must be completed by the end of 2020. As far as the implementation is concerned, Infrabel informs me that the execution of the works is planned from the second half of 2018 until the end of 2020. To prepare for this, the size of the investment, currently estimated at EUR 46.4 million, will still be refined. Infrabel considers this project to be a stand-alone project, which must be assessed on its own merits. By using electrical equipment, operating costs can be reduced. In addition, the choice of electrical equipment which can be used on this connection is greater than the choice available today, whereby only diesel equipment of the type MW 41 can be used. The amount of EUR 1 billion, the balance of the investment costs, which is not financed by the European authorities, will be charged to the reserved Flemish section within this total amount of EUR 1 billion. This total amount of EUR 1 billion therefore consists of the multiannual railway investment plan, which is financed by the traditional public funds. Consultations with the Regions on the use of this total amount of EUR 1 billion are still ongoing within the framework of ECMM. It is my ambition to conclude a cooperation agreement on this matter between the federal government and the three Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u134	Minister, I will be very brief. You have long known my wish and the arguments pro the electrification of the piece on the line 19. My question was specifically about the assessment of the project by Infrabel as a self-contained project in progress. You replied in the affirmative. I believe that this is a good thing for a project which I hope will have a real chance of getting through effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u135	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that the works start in the second half of 2018 and that by 2020 we will get to Hamont by an electric train from Herentals to Mol.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u136	That would indeed be good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u137	Mr President, Minister, one of the pedestrian bridges across the railway in Ronse, better known as the Passerelle, has been neglected for a long time. However, this is an important pedestrian connection between the southern part of town and the city centre. Since the bridge was closed in 2014, a temporary bridge was provided, but it was recently removed. It is reported that there is now an agreement between Infrabel and the city of Ronse on a free transfer of the bridge. The city would then renovate this one. First, can you confirm that Infrabel has given his agreement for a free reflection from the bridge to the city of Ronse? If so, how concrete is this agreement? What does this agreement provide, inter alia, for the allocation of costs? Secondly, when will the effective transfer take place? Thirdly, what is the temporary solution pending the renovation of the bridge?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u138	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, Infrabel will let me know the following. There is an agreement currently being discussed with the services of the real estate heritage, the city of Ronse and Infrabel. This is a transfer agreement which should be implemented as soon as possible. The discussions on this matter are progressing constructively, but have not yet been concluded. The transfer date hasn't been fixed yet. Pending the renovation of the bridge, a passage through the shortened platforms is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u139	Thank you, Minister, for your specific answer. Last week we were told by the press that there would be an agreement or almost. You confirm this, although the last elements still need to be discussed. I hope that this will be resolved quickly and that this bridge, which is important for the inhabitants and rail passengers, will be renovated as soon as possible, for better services in Ronse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u140	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 19316 question is converted into a written question. The next question on the agenda is Question No 19323 by Mr Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u141	Mr President, since this is a rather long question, it can also be converted into a written question. That will speed things up a bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u142	Thanks for that. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Wollants' 19335 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u143	Mr President, Mr Minister, the management of the three rail companies has tabled on the table of the Joint Sub-Committee a project to grant group insurance to 475 executives and contractors of the SNCB Group. This proposal, which would cost EUR 1 million, was presented as an element of attractiveness needed to attract talent to its groups. Is there a problem of recruiting these "talents" to become the top managers of tomorrow? Can you tell us if SNCB is struggling to recruit the necessary profiles for any group of this size? Are there frequent departures to make SNCB "more attractive"? In addition to the advantages of this type, have other measures been taken to attract talent, particularly in terms of work organisation and management system? The highly hierarchical pyramid structures seem no longer suitable for Y-generation graduates. Is this still the case with SNCB? The concept of a "liberated company", based on a significant autonomy of employees, is developing everywhere to adapt to this reality. Is there any discussion of this within the railway group?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the SNCB informs me that, for certain specific profiles, it uses contractual recruitment, mainly because the candidates concerned cannot be statutory because of their nationality, special expertise not included in the current statutory grades. In this context, in order to attract the best candidates, SNCB believes that it has become almost inevitable to offer group insurance in order to align itself with the market and that from the moment that insurance is provided for new contract hires, an identical advantage should be provided for contractors in the same category already in place, namely 475 workers that you mention in your question. For my part, I am requesting that the new CEO of SNCB and the new boss of HR Rail lead to a modernization of the organization in these and other subjects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u145	Minister, thank you for your answer. I can only join you in your desire to modernize SNCB's HR policy and adapt it to make these companies attractive rail for talent. They must, of course, be forced into new ways of working, such as those applied in societies that want to be attractive to these talents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u146	Questions Nos 19347 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux and 19354 by Mrs Poncelet are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u147	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, in response to a written parliamentary question of April 2016, you had delivered the language distribution of staff within Belgocontrol at present in failure to present a proper linguistic framework to which it is subject by law, namely 59.13 per cent for Dutch-speaking people and 40.87 per cent for French-speaking people, i.e. 463 members of Dutch-speaking statutory and contractual staff and 320 so-called French-speaking members, for a total of 783, as of June 2015. In the reply, you also mentioned the difficulty for Belgocontrol to set up the linguistic framework required by law, "in view of the situation of air traffic controllers within the company, which represents one third of the staff". From a good source, it comes to my mind that the problem lies mainly in the insufficient number of French-language controllers recruited since 2010, particularly for the airports of Liège and Charleroi, which are booming airports and for which you will agree that French-language air traffic controllers are indispensable. Currently, the four Dutch-speaking controllers who worked in Charleroi and Liège failed their internship because of their approximate French. Belgocontrol is currently working understaffed on the French side, placing the Walloon airports of Charleroi and Liège in particular under pressure. Minister, are air traffic controller recruitments planned in a timely manner or have they taken place recently? If so, what are the results? Is it possible, in order to ensure that Walloon airports are fully operational, to set up separate reserves for the recruitment of Francophone and Dutch-speaking air traffic controllers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u148	Mr President, dear colleague, Belgocontrol gives me the following information. Following the structural deficit in Belgocontrol in 2010 and 2014, there was no review of the recruitment of air traffic controllers during this period. Since 2015, following the adoption of the management contract in 2014, Belgocontrol has once again had the means to recruit staff and make the necessary investments. However, these recruitments cannot directly affect the operational workforce. A training period of two to three years is required before air traffic controllers become fully operational in the control towers. In addition, both theoretical and practical training capacities must also be taken into account. As far as theoretical training is concerned, Belgocontrol has made use of an international training organisation with sufficient training capacity. As far as practical training is concerned, time staggering is necessary in order to take into account the limited internship capacity encountered in the operational units. Since 2015, Belgocontrol has organized three air traffic controller recruitment competitions. In total, no fewer than 71 aspiring air traffic controllers will have started training by the end of 2017 (13 in 2015, 28 in 2016 and 30 in 2017). The number of French-speaking candidates in the recruitment competition is much lower than the number of Dutch-speaking candidates. For example, there were only 20% of Francophone candidates in the last recruitment competition, despite the specific advertising campaigns conducted by Belgocontrol on the francophone side. As a result, the number of aspiring Francophone controllers is, as in the past, lower than the number of Dutch-speaking controllers. To remedy this problem and to have sufficient air traffic controllers for Walloon airports, Belgocontrol has set up separate recruitment reserves from 2016. This should allow for faster response to the operational needs of Walloon airport control towers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u149	Minister, thank you. I hope that all this implementation will solve the current known difficulties. We will check the evolution of the situation to see if other problems are reported.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u150	Debates of the European Parliament 19371 by Mr Van den Bergh, 19388 by Mr Delannois, 19400 by Mr Thiébaut and 19401 by Mr Thiébaut are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u151	Mr Minister, it is my responsibility that at present there are shortcomings in terms of accessibility for people with reduced mobility (PMR) at the Schuman station. If it appears that when the station was renovated, BELIRIS had correctly complied with the accessibility standards for wheelchair users, SNCB would not currently approve all the infrastructure put in place, as this would not be included in the management contract. Clearly, there are absurd situations in which the PMR can access the station through inclined planes or elevators, but is not able to access the cars. There would also be a dedicated RMP counter, which would be closed and used for the receipt of goods. Mr. Minister, can you let me know if you confirm these deficiencies and the related justifications? If so, what measures do you intend to take to improve this accessibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u152	The SNCB informs that it will soon be able to offer a solution to people travelling in wheelchairs and using the train at the Brussels-Schuman railway station. SNCB plans to add the Brussels-Schuman station to the list of 114 PMR stations where its staff are present. In order to do this, however, new boarding bridges are needed at the current prototype stage. These ramp prototypes were ordered and tested by PCP on 6 July in the presence of the prevention adviser and the Legal Controls department. The latter went well. The proposed model was approved with a few minor adjustments. At present, the company still has to make small adjustments and have the loading ramp finished (galvanization, coating, fitting of seals and safety markings). Since the company is closed for 30 and 31 weeks for the building and the same is true for the zing and lacquering plant, we expect that the company will be able to deliver the prototype within the 36th week or at the worst of the 39th week. It can then be tested on the site even in Brussels-Schuman, in order to be approved by a specialised firm. This will give customers with reduced mobility the opportunity to take the train. Assistance will be provided by a mobile team. After the tests for approval and approval of the ramp, scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2017, SNCB will be able to adequately equip the Brussels-Schuman station, which will give it the official status of PMR station. It may therefore be added to the list of 114 stations where a service for persons with reduced mobility is provided and staff are present, subject to a reservation made 24 hours in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u153	Minister, this is good news. I did not understand correctly: at what point will this be operational for PMRs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u154	As I understand it, starting in the fourth quarter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u155	In the meantime, what are the solutions? I insist because there was a person in a wheelchair just now. It is for her that I ask the question because she is really bothered by this problem. I would like to be able to give him concrete answers. In the meantime, how do we do it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u156	In the meantime, there is no solution at Schuman station, I am sorry, but I have given instructions for this problem to be solved. This problem does not date from today. I have given instructions for actions to be taken before the end of the year or for the beginning of 2018. I am not in control of the timing of the SNCB's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u157	These problems are very urgent!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u158	Yes, but this equipment must be approved and monitored, etc. When such accessible material is placed in public places, it should not be done in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u159	I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u160	Mr. Chairman, sir, the Minister, at the earliest after three months of probation and from 18 years of age, as part of the issuance of a provisional driver's licence - 36 months - a person may present the practical examination at the examination centre with his or her own vehicle and accompanied by a guide. Under the regulations, a driver who can only drive a vehicle specifically adapted to his disability cannot be a guide to learning. This restriction has been reported to me by several associations that are aware of the cause of persons with disabilities. Since on the right of the vehicle, instead of the passenger, there is no steering wheel or pedal, it could be reasonably considered that a person, although suffering from an engine handicap, but having all the required visual and sensory acuity, as well as self-control abilities, would be able to perform this function. Under Article 5(2) of the United Nations Convention on Persons with Disabilities, directly applicable in Belgian law, which deals with equality and non-discrimination, "in order to promote equality and eliminate discrimination, States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that reasonable accommodation is provided". If this is more an obligation of means than an obligation of results, it seems to me that the guiding function in the above-mentioned circumstances granted to a person with a disability is a reasonable accommodation. Has such a restriction already been analysed by your services? If so, is a positive development possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u161	Ms. Caprasse, during the practical examination, the candidate is accompanied either by a driving school instructor or a guide, or - if he holds a temporary driving licence M18 authorizing him to drive without a guide - by a accompanying person who must meet the conditions to be a guide. The holder of an M36 provisional driving licence must, in principle, be accompanied by a guide when learning to drive. Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 10 July 2006 provides that this guide must, for at least eight years, be the holder and bearer of a Belgian or European driving licence valid for the driving of a category B vehicle. A driver who, in accordance with Article 44(5) or Article 45 of the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998 on a driver's licence, may only drive a vehicle specifically adapted to his or her disability, may not be a guide to apprenticeship unless the applicant suffers from the same handicap and also drives a vehicle adapted to him or her. Under these provisions, a disabled person who does not have to drive such a vehicle can perfectly be a guide for a holder who does not share his or her disability. On the other hand, if the guide is a person with a disability who, following a medical examination, can only drive a vehicle adapted to his or her disability, he or she can only be a guide for a person sharing him or her. This is justified by the fact that the vehicle that this guide can drive is adapted to this handicap, so that a candidate who does not share it could not learn in the best conditions to drive a vehicle not specifically adapted. If the candidate does not share this handicap, the adaptations of the vehicle are not necessary and can be a source of error and confusion, since it is not an experienced driver who can find his marks on board the vehicle specifically adapted, but rather an apprentice for whom the control of the vehicle is not yet perfect. It's very technical, I'm sorry. The guide, in addition to his driving instruction function, and in particular the control of the vehicle, must be able to react and take control of the vehicle in the event of a driving error of the candidate he or she accompanies. If the guide can only drive and accompany in a vehicle adapted to his disability, it also means that the candidate must, in addition to focusing on driving learning, also learn to master the technical adaptations of the vehicle. This is an additional and unnecessary difficulty for someone who does not suffer from an identical disability. Finally, the guide may also have never learned to drive a vehicle that is not specifically adapted, so that he or she is not able to teach a candidate who does not share his or her disability. To the extent that it is neither realistic nor feasible to have each potential guide concerned by this measure undergo an assessment examination to determine whether or not it could be an acceptable guide for a candidate who does not share his or her disability, the measure concerned was taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u162	Minister, thank you for this very detailed answer. I think there may still be, in some cases, opportunities for people with disabilities to guide some people. I think psychologically, it's hard for these people not to be able to access this ability to serve as a guide.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u163	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, you will remember. It was December 2016. We were many to question you about the catastrophic situation of line 96, Quiévrain-Mons-Bruxelles and Quévy-Frameries-Mons-Bruxelles. At that time, you explained to us that this situation was linked to construction sites on the line and that you were going to take steps to improve it, including with a special line manager. You promised us that by the end of the construction work, the situation would clearly improve thanks to the various measures you had decided on. I've been patient. I waited until March, April, to give these construction sites time. I let it pass the month of May to see what it was after a return to normal traffic conditions. I then put my question, but given the delay, we are already here in July. To objectiveize things, according to commuters.be, in May 2017, only 57.6% – that's very little! – trains were on time between Mons and Brussels-Central. More than four out of ten trains were found to be late, with an average of seven minutes. Despite what you said in December, the problem of delays and punctuality remains a major one. With the removal of trains, combined with a longer journey times well beyond the theoretical durations foreseen on this line and an undercapacity of cars in terms of passengers, the announcements made have not been realized. On the other hand, users are still extremely angry. I would therefore like to take stock of this situation. The minimum quality of service to be provided to users is no longer guaranteed on line 96.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u164	Mr President, Minister, I think I am the parliamentarian who knows the best of line 96, since I borrow it every day and sometimes even on the weekend. Your collaborator sitting next to you knows her just as well because, like me, she uses her daily. Isn't that right, Melissa? After your excellent decision, Minister, to appoint line managers, improvements were really made. Now, as my distinguished colleague, Catherine Fonck, who is based on commuters.be rather than on experience, it is true that there are delays. Paradoxically, I find that there are more delays in the direction of Brussels towards Mons, among other things because Alost's train is still late and that of Mons is waiting for it. And it also happens that the number of cars is reduced, more so for trains coming from Mons and to Brussels. Then we're all stuck. The practice is that when the train is "bomvol", as it is said in Brussels, people travelling in the second class are accepted in the first class. Moreover, as Catherine Fonck mentioned, there are quite a few train deletions, which is still extremely frustrating. With this in mind, minister, could you tell me what, in your opinion, are the structural and ad hoc problems on this line? I think the line manager sends you a report every month. What are the solutions put forward by the manager of line 96 to address these one-off or structural problems? Finally, in your opinion, what improvements should be made to provide better service to commuters on line 96, particularly during the start of September?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, I remain constantly attentive to the punctuality of trains. I asked that I be notified every month of the punctuality of the previous month. I read the May data and immediately questioned the two delegated administrators to learn about the actions taken by SNCB and Infrabel. I have asked that an action plan for punctuality be drawn up and presented to me by both companies, in order to find the right level of punctuality in 2015 as soon as possible and to ensure a favourable structural level. SNCB confirms that the punctuality of line 96 is well followed by the line manager. In 2017, the punctuality of line 96 was significantly higher than in the last two years. In 2016, many efforts were made to improve the results of line 96. However, the month of May 2017 showed disappointing results due, according to SNCB and Infrabel, to climatic conditions - temperatures above 30 degrees - having an impact on infrastructure and equipment. In June, however, SNCB noted an improvement. Between 1 and 14 June included, the punctuality was 90.7 % in Brussels and 82 % in the Region. Punctuality is less good when you leave Brussels to the Regions than when you go to Brussels. We will present you with a table that shows the evolution of punctuality over the years 2015, 2016 and for the first months of 2017. In terms of the origin of the delays, more than half of the incidents are due to infrastructure disruptions. Overall, this comes from 28% of SNCB and 28% of Infrabel, the rest coming from external elements. But for that period, more than half are due to infrastructure problems. According to Infrabel, this increase in the number of incidents in May is related to high temperatures and high temperature variations. It is especially the signs that are particularly sensitive. Virtually all of Infrabel's reports relate to disruptions to track circuits, axle counters, signals, switches or level crossings. With regard to the minutes of delay at the expense of third parties and SNCB, there are gradually increasing curves. The main cause of the delays attributable to SNCB is incidents related to rolling stock. The increase in third-party causes in May is due to cases of trespassing, theft of cables, malicious acts - alarm signals activated, physical assaults on an attendant, etc. In addition, work is an aggravating factor. Work is underway on line 96 at various locations: Hal-Braine-le-Comte, Jurbise-Soignies, Ghlin-Cuesmes, Genly-Quévy. This leads to operating restrictions and temporary slowdown notices. In the event of an incident, it is more difficult to correct traffic, which means that an incident generates several minutes of delay. Among the general actions undertaken to improve punctuality, SNCB states that it is taking measures to reduce the number of physical failures and that it is paying regular attention, together with Infrabel, to plan infrastructure works that could impact punctuality as effectively as possible. For line 96, different measures have been taken specifically or are under consideration. 1. Changing the schedules of certain freight trains so as not to disrupt peak time. I do not know why, but the introduction of freight trains has been planned at very busy times. 2. Weekly analysis of incidents based on relationships via line managers. 3. The ongoing awareness of operational personnel to avoid errors by these personnel in the cabin. Indeed, we must also count with human error. I am thinking here of the choice of lines for trains to cross, especially at Hal station. With regard to the fourth Directive on traffic regulation, a clear directive has been published by Brussels-Midi in order to fluidise traffic, especially in vesperial peak hours between lines 96 and 96n. Finally, Infrabel informs me that the external signalling work for the concentration of the Quévy B33 station, carried out during the single track on line 96, December 2016-April 2017, has been completed and is now complete. Functional testing is under way and the position is scheduled for implementation in December 2017. Infrabel adds, however, that the line should continue to be modernised and that other works are or will still be carried out there, in particular the infrastructure of the station in Quévy, which is to be modified, on the basis of a new master plan. In addition to the signaling work, the renewal of the wooden ties in the B lanes between Cuesmes and Quévy is to be foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u166	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I confess I'm worried after your last words. If you are still planning these additional new construction projects, I fear that the situation of commuters will only worsen. I would also like to add a few comments. I heard the figures for the first 15 days of June. It is always delicate to interpret over such a short period of time when you are under a completely black sky on this line! We'll see! On the causes, I can understand elements such as infrastructure, track maintenance, rolling stock accidents or equipment breakdowns. However, as far as the climate is concerned, as I know, there is no special microclimate at 30° on this line. I find that this argument is not admissible to explain the major difficulties. You said the numbers were disappointing. No! With 57% of trains on time, it's not disappointing, it's catastrophic! Already, your predecessor had promised us that everything would go very well on line 96, recognizing that it was the worst line on the network and saying, "You'll see, it's going to go very fast." We are now three years later, it is time to go beyond words and go further in action. I have the impression that, each time, we take small gauges but, basically, we still have a problem with equipment and maintenance and difficulties with the lanes. There have been major budgetary amputations, in terms of train mobility policy, whether it be the Infrabel or the SNCB component. True, I am convinced that because of budgetary amputations, there is a lack of track maintenance. A vicious circle is then set in motion, resulting in permanent delays, problems of trains being removed, also linked to a lack of equipment. I can only really ask you to take the bull by the horns and reinvest on this line. Otherwise, the situation will continue to worsen and commuters will remain desperately angry. I really call on you to go further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u167	I have an analysis of the situation, which is confirmed by the daily use of the train. There was a real shortage of satisfaction in May. In my opinion, there is sometimes an organizational problem. The minister confirmed that, often, it is at the departure of Brussels that delays are created and that, as everything tends to accumulate, the delay is becoming more and more serious. It is not normal for commuters to wait long minutes because a train that leaves the Central Station and stops in Brussels-Midi must pass before trains that go to Mons, Alost or elsewhere. These first trains should pass after commuter trains. I'm amazed to see freight trains passing in the hours of commuter trains. Thank you for putting your finger on this problem. As far as the equipment is concerned, I do not agree with Mrs Fonck. I'm talking about the station I know, the one in Braine-le-Comte. We hadn't done track work since I was a kid and there were still steam engines. There has been an unacceptable lack of confidence on the part of the various supervisory ministers, although there have been other Walloons before Mrs Galant. But for the last few months, I find that the wooden ties that were completely rotten at the station of Braine-le-Comte, are replaced, like that of H annoyères. Mrs. Fonck has to go through that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u168	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u169	I mean, if we don't do the cross-crossings again, that means we're gonna have accidents. If there's any big work, I'm glad. I am not saying that further work should not be done, on the contrary. I'm the first person to report things to do. Although the Thalys line has brought relief as the Paris-Brussels trains no longer pass through our lines, there are still only two tracks. Obviously, if we do work, it has an impact on the respect of timings. The minister knows I'm the first one to tinker with him so we can move on. But, Mrs Fonck, it would have been necessary for the previous ministers to do more work. It is not cosmetic work that is carried out, it is substantive work. For the Lambda user, the fact of changing the railway ties probably seems very secondary, while it is fundamental!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u170	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dumery's 19466 was postponed. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 19481 by Mrs Jadin, No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Mr Vandenput, No. 19529 (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Van den Bergh, No. 19535 President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Mr Foret's 19600 and 19601 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u171	Mr President, Minister, we were talking a moment ago about a European subsidy for electrification of the Molo Hamont line. I've also looked at the other projects. Apparently, our country receives EUR 32 million to optimise infrastructure and train service. In total, this is a European budget of EUR 2.7 billion, spread over 152 projects across the European Union, specifically to eliminate the missing links in the TEN-T. The answer to an oral question from me to your predecessor showed that Belgium had submitted project applications for EUR 1.84 billion. I quote a passage from that answer: "I can confirm that projects for the port of Antwerp were integrated into the European Investment Plan, as were nine other Belgian railway-related projects. I have the following questions. Which projects will be specifically funded by Europe? In addition to freight transport, is it also about a number of passenger lines? What were the eligibility criteria for project grants? What was the total amount of applications submitted to the EU? EUR 32 million is a significantly smaller amount than the initial application of EUR 1.84 billion. Has the government taken this into account when drawing up its plans for domestic transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 13 October last, the Innovation and Networks Executive Agency, on behalf of the European Commission, launched new project calls under the CEF-Transport programme. These calls remained valid until 7 February 2017. For the calls for projects, the European Commission has allocated EUR 1.9 billion, of which EUR 1.1 billion is reserved for the Member States eligible for funding from the Cohesion Fund. The remaining budget, around EUR 800 million, could be allocated to projects carried out in any Member State of the European Union. Only projects which fit into one of the priorities described in the call for proposals can obtain a grant. The priorities for rail transport were as follows. Firstly, the upgrade or retrofitting of the rolling material with ETCS. Secondly, the roll-out of ETCS throughout the TEN-T. Thirdly, the replacement of the brake blocks of the freight wagons with brake blocks that have lower noise emissions, i.e. retrofitting. Fourthly, studies and works to develop cross-border TEN-T infrastructures and to develop innovative, efficient and sustainable rail freight services. These priorities concern both passenger and freight transport. To conclude these calls, ten grant applications were submitted to the European Commission by public and private actors in the Belgian railway sector, in cooperation with the FPS Mobility and Transport. Between February and June, the various application files were evaluated by the European Commission. The criteria used by the European Commission are the time frame, quality, relevance and impact of the projects. Seven Belgian railway projects were selected by the European Commission, representing a total of €32.7 million in European grants. The following projects were selected. Firstly, the equipment of the sections Kapellen-Essen and Libramont-Autelbas with ETCS. Secondly, electrification of the railway line between Mol and Weert. Thirdly, the connection of the dry port of Athus to the French rail network. Fourthly, the equipment of the 4 157 freight wagons with low-noise brakes. Fifth, the installation of ETCS on 57 locomotives. Sixthly, the development of an IT system to exchange data on freight trains. Finally, a study on the improvement of rail infrastructure in and between the port areas of Terneuzen and Ghent. In your question you refer to twelve projects for total investment costs of EUR 1.84 billion. These projects were indeed submitted to the European Commission, a few years ago, as part of the launch of the Juncker Plan. The purpose of this plan was to attract private investors to contribute to the financing of large investments. In no way was it said that this amount would be applied for as a European grant, nor that grants would be requested for these projects under the CEF transport programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u173	Minister, it is good that the projects listed can really be implemented, as I said just now before Mol-Weert. It is, of course, a good thing that the rest is invested in security, because spending on it means a heavy bite from the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u174	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Geerts' 19358, 19386, 19622, 19628, 19821 and 19841 are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u175	Mr Minister, this is actually a question of the state of play. Recently, Brussels Airport presented the 2040 strategic vision for the airport. This refers to the possible extension of runway 25L. That has given rise to a lot of dust in our region, Leuven. If this is actually achieved, it can have an even greater negative impact on the quality of life in the Leuven region. In fact, I would like to re-examine all aspects and then ask you about the state of play. Since the construction of the airport, Leuven and the surrounding municipalities bear a large part of the burden of the falling aircraft. The introduction of the route Leuven Straight through in 2014 added the aircraft taking off, with of course additional noise for a limited region. A reasonable spread was no longer present at that time. Another aspect is that Belgocontrol assessed the route Leuven Straight through negative. Both in terms of safety, which is primordial for Belgocontrol, and in terms of technical feasibility, Leuven has serious shortcomings. In the meantime, you have also spoken to a large number of actors in the region, which is very much appreciated. Nevertheless, there is still no decision on Leuven Straight ahead or on a clear flying law. We have the impression that you will always extend that project further for you. Prime Minister, I am not asking you for the first time whether there is any clear timing for your decisions on this matter. When will you correct the unfair spread? Will you re-introduce the situation prior to 6 March and then work out a federal agreement on the routes, with a fair distribution being the first? I think that is the right order. Do you agree that the problem of the Leuven straightaway route needs to be solved before a flight law can be introduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I am concerned, I do not wish to make any effort, nor do I wish to avoid dialogue, in order to find a lasting solution to the whole problem of noise around Brussels Airport. However, I cannot give you a clear timetable for the development of a solution. I would certainly like to achieve an overall solution which includes all the elements of the dossier, including flight routes and flight law, so that we can avoid a phased solution, which threatens to solve the dossier only partially. I would also remind you that the problem of the Leuven Straightway route is currently being examined by the Brussels Appeal Court. Any decision will therefore have to respect the judgment of the Court. In that file, the State was sentenced in June 2015 to discontinue the use of the so-called Leuvenrechtby procedure. That judgment was delivered by default. In April 2016, the court reviewed its position and lifted a ban on using the Leuvenrecht transit route. The decision of April 2016 has today been appealed against. Since the court has already ruled in the opposite way twice, it is not possible to anticipate the forthcoming judgment. The last conclusions in the file were submitted last month. How long we have to wait for the verdict now depends on the workload of the court of appeal in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u177	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I understand very well that you do not want half a job, neither do we. I certainly understand from your answer that you will not take any steps in the file before there is a ruling from the court of appeal. However, I think there are more aspects to the case than just the ruling of the court of appeal. You said yourself that the court has already ruled in two different directions. The question is what it will be now. After the consultation with all the actors in the region, it is particularly appreciated that you have taken this trouble, the government itself will have to come up with a solution. I am therefore counting on you to do so in the foreseeable future. I will continue to ask about a state of affairs, because it is unfair. Such a way of working is no longer acceptable. People continue to suffer noise pollution. I think you have a responsibility to put an end to that. We'll get back to you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u178	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Mr Vercamer, No. Mr Delannois, No. 19641 19708 by Mr Yüksel, No. 19751 by Mr Calomne, Nos. 19779, 19780, 19782, 19823 and 19827 19795 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, Mr Devin's 19813, 19903, 19904 and 19909 are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin's proposal for 19880 was postponed to the next parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u179	Mr Minister, Blue-bike, the company that rents blue bikes to De Lijn stations and stops, has grown considerably since its creation in 2011, both in terms of the number of journeys and the number of users. B-Parking, a subsidiary of SNCB, currently holds 52% of the shares of Blue-bike and De Lijn 32 %. TEC and Bike and Work are smaller shareholders. Blue-bike is now negotiating a new business plan for almost a year. In September 2016, a capital increase was discussed. Indeed, the growth rate of recent years, with a five-fold increase in the number of journeys over three years, cannot be maintained in the future with the current supply of bicycles. However, SNCB would have doubts about taking part in a further expansion and a capital increase. In addition, there would have been a desire for an equal participation of 42.5 % of B-Parking and De Lijn, i.e. more of a fifty-fifty ratio, but B-Parking would like to remain a majority shareholder. I do not have to tell you that bikes fit perfectly in the framework of co-mobility that this government takes as its starting point in its mobility policy, as agreed in the government agreement. The Chamber is also convinced that there is much future in the system of bikes, especially in conjunction with public transport. I refer to Resolution 1573, which raised the question of further building and stimulating bicycle rental in stations, and of making a partial bicycle system available in the long term in the majority of stations. In addition, you recently replied to my question that SNCB also wants to encourage the use of environmentally friendly bikes. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Can you tell me more about the state of play regarding Blue-bike's new business plan? What are the pain points? What are the further steps and what timing will be used? How does B-Parking see its future participation in Blue-Bike? How does SNCB see the future participation of B-Parking in Blue-bike? What position does B-Parking take when it comes to the distribution of shares and why? What is the view of SNCB on this? Which organizations would like to participate in Blue-bike? What position does B-Parking take when it comes to an increase in capital and why? And what is the view of SNCB as the main shareholder of B-Parking? What is your view on the role of SNCB and B-Parking in Bluebike and why? In what way do you want to see that vision carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u180	Mr Van den Bergh, SNCB informs me that Blue Mobility has presented its new business plan to the various shareholders. There are no pain points, but a decision is needed for future investments. The plan provides for an annual extension of the network, not only around the stations but also at other intermodal mobility nodes such as stops of De Lijn and PRS if there is a financial contribution from the municipality. The various shareholders will study this plan carefully. It is expected that the various actors will be able to clarify their views after the summer holidays. Since the establishment of Blue Mobility, SNCB has invested in cycling and infrastructure for the current Blue Bike locations. Recently, an investment has also been approved for the necessary infrastructure update. As I said earlier, shareholders, including B-Parking, are currently studying Blue Mobility's business plan and can be expected to take a position on this after the summer holidays. B-Parking naturally assesses this plan taking into account the interests of the SNCB Group to which both B-Parking and Blue Mobility belong. As for any specific activity in which the commercial market is active, it is not appropriate to disclose detailed information on the possible interest of third parties in participating in Blue Mobility. Consultations shall be organised on a regular basis between the different interested parties, including B-Parking and SNCB, as the ultimate parent company of Blue Mobility. In order to allow for a further development and growth of Blue Mobility, investments are needed, in particular for the renewal of the bicycle fleet. As indicated above, the role of the various shareholders is still being studied. Blue Mobility is an initiative developed by SNCB since 2010 to improve its multimodal door-to-door offering. The Blue Bikes form an important link in the offer after the train transfer. SNCB-B-Parking wants to ensure the future of Blue Mobility in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic714x.u181	Mr Minister, your answer contains a little more positive noises than what we have heard in the past few months. I'm declaring myself. I understood in the past few months that SNCB said that her core business is running trains and that everything else is secondary and only comes in second order. When it comes to cycling, SNCB gave priority to building the bicycle sheds. I was sorry to hear that, because I strongly believe in Blue-bike as a means of transport, as you yourself say at the end of your answer, for the last mile. With this means of transport, the range of action of the train as a means of transport is greatly increased. The number of possible destinations by train can be increased immediately by 5 or 10 kilometres, thanks to the availability of Blue bikes, which also seems particularly attractive for a public transport company such as SNCB. I am therefore counting on SNCB and B-Parking to look at this dossier with sufficient voluntarism and not to stand in the way of a further development of Blue-Bike, on the contrary, that they are fully committed to further developing it.
