ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u1	Questions by Mrs Fabienne Winckel (Nos. 15154, 15545, 15546, 15550, 15823, 15998, 16609, 17497, 17157 and 17535) and question No. 15221 by Mr. Benoît Friart are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u2	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about a poster that shocked me. On March 10, the Belgian section of the AKP broadcast an electoral poster on social networks, which I find quite shocking. In fact, we see the fight between two silhouettes, one brandishing a cross, the other a crescent. The slogan used in this illustration was clear: "This struggle is the struggle between the crescent and the cross. Let's get together under the crescent. You will see that there will be many of us." In my view, this is an unacceptable call for division and hatred. It is very dangerous to try to turn a political struggle into an interfaith conflict. This is a real provocation on the part of the AKP, which seeks to oppose the communities in Belgium. Madam Secretary of State, are you aware of this poster? What is your reaction to such propaganda, which seeks to raise Belgians of different origins and beliefs against each other? Do you intend to initiate prosecutions? What actions do you intend to take to stop the dissemination of such messages on social networks, in meetings and in statements?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u3	Thank you for your question, Mr. Dallemagne. I would also like to greet the young people who are there. Good day to the youth who sits upstairs, you are always welcome. Mr Dallemagne, I share your concern because it goes without saying that such a message is not only regrettable but quite worrying. Different cultures and religions are set against each other. This is unacceptable. I'm in touch with Unia who has expertise in this area. In fact, Unia has already received several notifications and a file has been opened on this subject. In this context, the image is assessed on the basis of the legal provisions on incitement to hatred, violence and discrimination. The Internet Reference Unit (IRU), which falls within the competence of my colleague, Minister Jambon, is the national point of contact for digital crimes at the Ministry of the Interior. As far as this case is concerned, a case has already been opened. They have thus had a Facebook page deleted and are particularly vigilant in order to ensure maximum elimination of this image by making contact with the web page providers each time. The IRU also reported this case to the judicial police. How it has dealt with the matter further falls under the secrecy of the investigation and under the competence of my colleague Koen Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u4	If I understand correctly, a criminal complaint has been filed since the court is seized?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u5	We're not there yet. I don't know. I simply know that the IRU reported that there is a case with the judicial police and that, in the context of the secret of the investigation, I cannot say anything about it, but perhaps you can question the Minister of Justice, Koen Geens, about it. We have Unia and the Internet Referral Unit dealing with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u6	Thank you for your good intentions in this regard. You're right, it's totally unacceptable, it's dangerous. We know the provocations of the AKP. I believe that, of course, we must stop this kind of propaganda which is totally unacceptable in our country and which is dangerous to social cohesion and which, I think, is totally intolerable in terms of the principles and values that we defend. I am counting on you to have all possible vigilance on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u7	Questions Nos. 15543 and 15789 by Ms. Catherine Fonck are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 15719 and 16707 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu are transformed into written questions. Ms. Nahima Lanjri requested the postponement of her question No. 16344. Mr Gautier Calomne asked for the postponement of his question No 16749.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u8	Madam President, I am honoured to ask a question to the Secretary of State for the very first time. I have already said this in other fora and I repeat: I am particularly proud that we now have a Secretary of State of Kurdish and Turkish origin because it clearly shows that we are an open country and that we know how to integrate its communities of foreign origin. Madam Secretary of State, Unia, the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities, is an independent body. Since its inter-federalization, all legislation has been applicable to it. Joods Actueel, a newspaper representing the Jewish community in Flanders, questioned Unia about the 600 euros fine and six months suspended prison sentence for a pro-Palestinian calling for the slaughter of all Jews during a demonstration in 2014. The director of Unia inadvertently ordered an e-mail from one of its members – a lawyer, I believe – mentioning this conviction as a problem, because it does not reflect what the law says. "Tordue" is the exact term used. In fact, Unia gave notice to the newspaper of the association for broadcasting the e-mail and the name of its author. The Centre for Equal Opportunities states that the position of the employee does not reflect that of the Centre for Equal Opportunities, which states that it condemns all forms of anti-Semitism. Joods Actueel considers that the e-mail in question defends the author of the e-mail and not the Jews, objects of incitement to murder, so as not to say genocide, to the extent that the convicted person called for the slaughter of all Jews. Unia defends the opinion of its member by escaping behind the freedom of expression, the limits of which the Centre itself has defined: any incitement, encouragement to discrimination, hatred, violence, segregation against others, in public, intentionally and for a specific reason, while stressing that it always favours freedom of expression by combating discourse through dialogue. Should not plurality of opinion be limited by the very principles of the law on non-discrimination that Unia is supposed to promote? What did the representatives of Unia say? As far as the law and its application in the field of discrimination and racism are concerned, have you repeated that in Belgium it is the parliament which defines the law, the justice which applies it, the Unia which ensures that it is respected? Have you addressed the fact that it is essential that every discrimination or act of anti-Semitism or racism be combated in the same way, with the same force, with respect for the same principles of law enshrined in the Belgian Constitution, Belgian legislation, in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and by all human rights defenders? Should not their fight be to ensure that policies which they consider to be infringing on those rights are challenged, not to the physical threat to the perpetrators of violations of those rights, and, more importantly, to the confusion between the acts of a government and its population, and to the ethnic or religious groups from which it emanates? What did you trade with Unia? We have already discussed this in plenary, but I think it is a particularly important issue. I would add that Unia may not have always followed these violations of the rights of homosexuals and transsexuals sufficiently and relentlessly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, I was questioned because, barely taking office, with a political guidance note that we had not had the opportunity to discuss, we were able to read in the press your comments which, in my view, disqualified the independent body that is Unia, responsible for evaluating the implementation of policies in terms of non-discrimination and equality. We have had an opportunity to discuss this in plenary and you have told us that you are reprimanding Unia, in its annual report, for being much more focused on racial discrimination than on others. I would like to reply that when a public body prepares an annual report, a self-criticism and an evaluation of its policies, it is interesting to note that it recognizes the achievement of certain objectives better than others and that it raises the question of improving its functioning. This approach seems interesting to me and needs to be supported by public bodies. Criticisms of how they work should not be used to disqualify them, but rather to seek to improve things. As you noted, they have not paid sufficient attention to the discrimination against older workers. The previous week, however, a report by Unia dealt with this subject. At the end of 2016, a major campaign should have been conducted by the administration responsible for disabled people. But Unia reported on the integration of people with disabilities in the professional, cultural and social spheres. They have various actions that are not perceived in the same way. So, on what reports and figures do you base yourself? The annual report of their activities or other elements? How will you re-establish the collaboration between Unia, the federal, the regions? All entities are concerned, both to maintain a national dimension and to maintain its missions so that real collective work can be carried out. How are you going to do it and with what calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u10	Madam Chair, when I say that Unia has a perception problem, I'm based on an Indiville study commissioned and funded by Unia. From this study, it appears that 51% of the respondents feel that the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities (Unia) exists mainly to help allochtonians. In addition, 51% of respondents believe that discrimination against certain population groups is considered to be more serious than when other groups are affected. I will read you a passage from the summary of this study, which is available on the Unia website. "The Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities is seen first of all as an institution which deals with the field of indigenous-allochtonic tensions and which, in this context, does not always intervene in a neutral, impartial and independent manner. This has a negative effect on the image of the Centre, makes the other branches of the Centre invisible and causes the Aboriginal population to feel that it too cannot address the Centre." For me, it's a problem because Unia has to talk to everyone. I share Mr Flahaux' concern. A large part of the population has lost confidence in Unia and that is truly regrettable. Following the incident, I met with representatives of the Jewish community. In addition to this very specific dossier, they have provided me with other examples of cases of anti-Semitism that have not been adequately responded to by Unia. All of this raises questions. As a point of contact for the fight against discrimination, Unia must be accessible to all groups and therefore also to Jews. As I have already said, if the Jewish victims of anti-Semitism in this country feel that Unia is of no use, then we are facing a problem. In the short term, I will meet with the co-directors of Unia. I will explain to them the various concerns on this subject and in particular on this point. It was Unia herself who commissioned the study that served as the basis for me when I argued that this institution had a perception problem. I see that it is open to criticism. As Secretary of State in charge of this matter, I have the task of criticising myself and considering anyone who feels discriminated against. It's very important to me. The fight against discrimination is a very important fight. For these reasons, I believe that we should take part in the reflection on how we can address the problem of Unia's perception. I would like to stress that it is not a criticism of the criticism, but rather a constructive criticism. I therefore believe that healthy criticism between adults does not necessarily have to negatively influence this working relationship. I am sure that, by 2019, I will have had the opportunity to receive critical remarks from them about my policy, and that will not prevent me from working constructively with them. I want to open the debate because it is very important, and to hold it with all the relevant actors in this field, particularly with Unia, as I have just said. I will soon meet again this week with co-directors Patrick Charlier and Els Keytsman. If I come here to present my policy paper, it is appropriate to have the discussion here, because many Members think this is an important issue. Madam President, in June, Unia will present the new annual report. Perhaps that is an opportunity to invite Unia here to present that annual report to us. The federal government pays €6 million to Unia. My budget for the fight against poverty is 3 million!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u11	Unia has already been invited to this commission. We expect to meet with them on a regular basis to assess with them their missions and the problems they raise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u12	The answer really satisfies me. It would have been a shame if the Secretary of State and Unia looked at each other in faience dogs. Especially since you're allochtonic yourself. At the Advisory Committee on Social Emancipation of which you were a member and of which Ms Gerkens and I are a member, you yourself put on the table the issue of work and allochtonic women. It is also a subject very much related to the Unia problem. So I can only welcome the frank discussions that are taking place between you and Unia. If this can help to ensure that Unia is equally open to all discrimination - I have recalled a few about gays and transsexuals - it is extremely positive. As the socialists sometimes say, "from the past let's sit down." That will be my conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u13	As I understand it, you will have the opportunity to meet with Mr. Charlier and Ms. Keytsman before coming to present your policy brief. So you can integrate it into your presentation for the next two years. I insist that a common working method be found. It is important to recognize the courage that some administrations or organizations sometimes have in asking for studies to assess their work or how it is perceived - which is another reality - in order to improve their services. There is a risk of a situation in which the person who carries out assessment work becomes vulnerable and is punished. It's always like this; you never do anything perfectly. This goes against the interest of the approach. This discussion will continue on April 19, the day your memo is presented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u14	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, a few weeks ago a study was published which showed that the fate of women managers in the European Union was complicated enough, to say no more. They are both underrepresented and less well paid. In our country, their situation is no better. For example, we have the least number of women managers (23%), which is below the EU average (35%). In terms of wages, however, the situation is less serious in our country than in our neighbours: 13.6% of the wage gap to the detriment of women, compared with an average of 23% in the European Union. At Belgian level, the Walloon Institute for Evaluation, Foresight and Statistics (IWEPS) published a study showing that while women are increasingly participating in the labour market, they are more often confined to part-time jobs. "A trap solution to promote women's employment", according to IWEPS. Eighty per cent of people working part-time are women. And that's not a wish of them. "This phenomenon is less to be attributed to a specific female desire than to a set of constraints on them: segregation on the labour market, coupled with an always unequal distribution of family and domestic tasks. And stereotypes are too often hard to live: a majority believe that the fact that a woman works full-time weighs on family life," says IWEPS. Madam Secretary of State, in view of this fact, what actions or measures do you intend to take to address this real problem and increase the number of women in decision-making positions in companies? What do you get from the first review of the law on gender quotas in business boards? In your opinion, should this legislation be changed or strengthened? At the cultural level, what awareness-raising activities do you intend to carry out in order to change attitudes within our society?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that a man is asking me about such a subject. However, the two reports published last year by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men on the presence of women on the boards of directors of listed companies, public economic enterprises and the National Lottery show that further progress is needed in order to feminize the boards of directors of most companies. Studies show that in six years, the percentage of women on the boards of directors of the companies examined has doubled. It increased from 8.2 per cent in 2008 to 12.7 per cent in 2012 and 16.6 per cent in 2014. However, the minimum tertiary objective is still far from being achieved in many companies, but progress is being made in this area. That's the good news. Although women may be well represented in lower and middle management, they are still often confronted with the glass ceiling, an invisible barrier that has its origin in organizational elements, patterns and prejudices, and then penetrates into the highest sphere of Belgian companies. It is no secret to you, but I am not a supporter of the binding socio-economic approach. Thus, I am not convinced that such an approach is enough to change stereotypical attitudes in a sustainable way towards a mentality that presupposes gender equality. Women are often underrepresented for deeper reasons that have a societal dimension, such as work-family reconciliation and chosen training. I therefore believe that intelligent numerical targets which give preference to the under-represented group in case of similar qualification are a better solution than imposed quotas. So, slimme streetcijfers, yes; on the other hand, I do not like quotas imposed. I do not believe in this principle. I am convinced that most companies want greater gender equality on their boards of directors. In my view, we must, on the one hand, continue to support these companies towards greater equality and, on the other hand, take measures to promote the employment of women and enable them to pursue a career. As far as support measures are concerned, many initiatives have been taken in recent years and have produced good results. I am thinking, for example, of the Women on Board database, which brings together highly qualified women with professional experience who may be of interest to the boards of directors of listed companies. In addition, I can announce that the Institutut voor de Gelijkheid van Vrouwen en Mannen organized in October 2016 an exchange of best practices with companies subject to the Quotas Act in order to allow good students to share their courses and methods. It was also essential to take measures to promote women's employment and to enable them to pursue a career in good conditions. This involves more flexible parental leave and career breaks, which are therefore more easily accessible, but also by raising the awareness of employers and male workers of the importance for them of investing in the family sphere, in particular through taking their leave. This will be part of the discussions under the Federal Action Plan on Gender and Employment, which involves all stakeholders and for which we are working with the colleagues concerned. The plan is currently in the preparatory phase. With regard to the last questions, I refer you to my answer to the second question. There is no doubt that it will be necessary to continue the work of raising the awareness of companies, so that they treat women in the same way as men in all categories.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for this long and detailed answer that demonstrates your interest in the subject. The exchanges we have remind me of the debates we have in the Committee on the Economy with Willy Borsus on women's entrepreneurship, since we know that the number of self-employed women and women entrepreneurs in our country is lower. It represents more or less one third of the self-employed. We'd like to encourage them. It is true that the findings, as you have pointed out, often point to the balance of family life – working life in this famous glass ceiling that we encounter in companies. We're asking. We do this for independents and entrepreneurs. But I think that, in the boards of directors and in the management or management positions within companies, we need to be able to change attitudes, put in place initiatives, raise public awareness and take measures in terms of parental leave and everything that can facilitate the reconciliation between professional and private life, both fulfilling. I find this very important and we will return to it. I would like to elaborate on another point with you, but we will come back to that when we ask you again, if necessary, about all the quotas on the boards of directors. I think these measures are necessary, because we see that the figures are on the rise despite the fact that they are not included in the targets. The idea of such measures is that they do not become perennial. To drive an effort when a real problem arises (as is the case today), this may be necessary. We will certainly come back to these important issues and follow closely the federal plan you intend to put in place with your government colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u17	Mr. Emir Kir requested the postponement of his question No. 17080. Before giving the floor to Mrs Jadin, could I ask whether you agree with the procedure used with other ministers in committee in order to turn certain questions into written questions? It consists of this: when questions are turned into a commission, the answers are given directly or sent by e-mail by your firm to the secretariat of the commission. We redistribute the answers to the author and the members of the commission. Otherwise, the answers follow paths, they have to be translated and it's complicated. Does that suit you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u18	Yes, all right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u19	At that time, Ms. Evita Willaert's questions 17392, 17440 and 17448 were transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 16253,17175, 16672 and 17420 by Mrs Els Van Hoof are also transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u20	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, we remain in the same register as my colleague Vanden Burre. This is a very important subject for me, too. On 14 March, your colleague Willy Borsus presented the results of a large survey carried out by the SPF Economy among 10,000 companies to assess the impact of the law of 21 December 2013 on SME financing. The investigation points to discrimination in the granting of credits. The refusal rate is 12% for women, while it is only 8% for men. On the other hand, the amounts requested and collected are generally lower among women. Madam Secretary of State, my questions are as follows. What is your first analysis of this discriminatory situation in access to credit for SMEs? Are you able to communicate to us the sectors of activity where the number of requests for credits made by women is highest? What are the main reasons for the rejection of women's applications for credits? What existing mechanisms could better regulate such discrimination? What are the advantages and disadvantages of these devices? Are you considering working on possible avenues for improvement to reduce this risk of discrimination?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u21	Mrs Jadin, thank you for your question. In my view, it is necessary to analyse the data more closely in order to correctly interpret this finding. At the moment, I do not have the figures for this investigation, but I will ask my colleague Borsus. In any case, if discrimination were found in this area, it would have to be addressed. If it is found that inequality depends on certain factors, we will have to develop a sound policy in this area. The numbers are what they are. We are aware that there is a historic backwardness in the area of self-employment and women. There is still a clear segregation by sector of activity. Self-employment policies are fully aimed at supporting and strengthening women in the development of self-employment. Independent women are part of the Gender & Employment Action Plan. The maternity leave granted to independent entrepreneurs has recently been extended to create more flexible conditions. Women receive practical support in the form of free service titles. In addition, it is important to note that entrepreneurs' organisations (VBO-FEB, UNIZO) are active in this area. I'll contact them, too. Several years ago... I used to be a self-employed man. That wasn't obvious as a woman. I realize that all too well, especially when you have children. It's very poorly organized. We need to identify the barriers to women's access to self-employment and see what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u22	Bedankt, mevrouw from Staatssecretaris. Indeed, as you have said, although we cannot yet rely on the results of the investigation, as we know, Madam President, this is a problem that needs to be addressed. Yes, sometimes the social status of women also changes. Single-parent families, however, are eager to create, develop, etc. Sometimes, too, with only small sums, things are possible. I really think that if your department could also have a proactive attitude, specifically in this area, I would obviously be at your side to defend it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic633x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for taking this time to answer the questions. Many written questions will be answered and we will then be able to distribute them to the members of the commission and to the authors. For the rest, go on April 19th. I take note that you will send us your note a few days before so that we can read it and discuss it in depth. Thank you.
