ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u1	Mr President, these are two different questions, on the same subject, which were erroneously marked in the same way. But I guess the minister can answer for a trade. Minister, as part of the Paradise Papers, Le Soir and De Tijd pinned this Friday, November 10, Betway, an online gambling site based in Malta, but with a subsidiary based in the British Virgin Islands, which is a tax haven. Since September 2016, this company has been a sponsor of the Anderlecht football club, the Football Cup organised by the Belgian Football Union and the Pro League. As a gambling site and online betting, Betway holds an official license from the gambling commission, and therefore collects bets legally in our country. Yet, at least indirect links of this society with the mafia are suspected. Its head office in Malta leads to an almost disused garage, according to the journalistic survey carried out, and the company has two completely illegal subsidiaries, Digimedia and Bayton, whose Betway would systematically try to dissociate itself. Its sponsorship activities may have been financed by money previously laundered in the Virgin Islands: 28 million euros from the tax haven landed in the Maltese Betway account in mid-December 2014. In response to questions posed to them by Le Soir newspaper, the officers of the gambling commission said they had to rely on the information provided by the game licence applicants and not have the means to carry out due diligence investigations on them. This is particularly worrying when we know the amounts managed by these companies, their sensitivity to fraud and the risk of money laundering associated with betting activities. Minister, how long has Betway received recognition from the gambling commission? Did his application for recognition refer to a residence in Malta and to the link with Digimedia and Bayton, companies based in tax havens? What verification has been carried out by the Commission with regard to the veracity and completeness of the data submitted by Betway with a view to its recognition? Why was there no due diligence check on this company? On Friday, the gambling commission announced the launch of an investigation into the company. What kind of control will this be? By which body will it be conducted? How long will it be? If it has come to fruition, what are the conclusions? What are the possible sanctions? With regard to other licensed online gaming companies, is there a systematic monitoring of their presence in tax havens and compliance? Will it also be undertaken in the light of the latest revelations? I move on to my second question, always in connection with these articles on Paradise Papers. I have referred to these two illegal companies, Digimedia and Bayton, which offer illegal online gambling sites but are still too easily accessible from Belgium. It can be easily demonstrated. Belgian legislation provides for fines for illegal sites and players who frequent them. If you play on illegal sites, you are liable to criminal penalties as a participant. If the Public Prosecutor's Office decides not to prosecute or has not acted on the facts within six months, the Commission may impose administrative fines on both organizers and players. For players, the administrative fine may vary from 26 euros to 25 000 euros; a doubling of these amounts is provided in case of recidivism or if minors are concerned. For the organisers, these fines can amount to up to 100,000 euros. It seems that this possibility of sanctions against illegal gambling operators or persons visiting their sites is very little activated. Minister, since the introduction of gambling legislation, per year, with regard to illegal sites and citizens who visit them, how many cases of non-compliance have the Commission found, how many prosecutions have been brought by the prosecution, how many fines and how much have been imposed? What is the Commission's capacity to carry out this task of controlling the attendance of gambling? What is your comment on this situation? What measures are you going to propose to strengthen the effectiveness of these sanctions and thus the effectiveness of the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u2	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gilkinet, Betway Ltd's licence E315247 was granted by the gambling commission on November 12, 2014. The address of the head office is known and is in Malta. Legal persons from a Member State of the European Union may obtain a Class E licence as a provider of gambling services. With regard to the companies mentioned, no link could be established between Digimedia and Betway Ltd. As for Bayton Ltd, one of the directors was also with Betway Ltd in 2014. An investigation is under way to determine whether there are still links between these two companies at present. In this file, the secretariat of the Games of Chance Commission collects information, in particular from the FPS Finance and the police. Betway Ltd. is to collaborate with the Game of Chance Commission. The data entered concerning Betway Ltd are checked on the basis of the company's articles of association. I would point out that the obligation to provide correct information lies primarily with the applicant for a licence, in accordance with what the law requires. A more thorough due diligence for each society making a request is, in view of the number, difficult to organize in practice. If the results of the investigation show that the company and/or the directors do not meet, or more than, the requirements of the function, the Commission will initiate a sanctioning procedure and may issue a warning, impose a ban on the temporary or permanent operation, suspension or even withdrawal of the licence. Prior to each administrative decision to place a site on the blacklist, a judicial record shall be drawn up. From 2013 to the end of 2016, six fines were imposed by the Commission for games of chance for the exploitation of illegal sites previously listed on the blacklist, for an amount of €360,000. The prosecution figures initiated by the Public Prosecutor's Office have been requested but cannot be provided within such a short time frame. The Commission has police officers with general competence and judicial police officers with competence under the Play of Chances Act to carry out checks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u3	Minister, the answer is succinct. The image of the capacity of the means of control put on the gambling sector, as I have already pointed out, calls for stronger control, taking into account the height of the amounts managed by these games, also taking into account the permeability of some form of crime and the impact they can have on families and players. I note, however, that an investigation was initiated against Betway following the publication of press articles. I hope that the appropriate resources are devoted to this. When you tell me that the gambling committee is unable to carry out a counter-investigation on the basis of the files introduced by the companies applying for recognition as gambling companies, I am concerned about that. If it is difficult to organize in practice, it is problematic that there is no further control. I'll come back to you to find out the results of the investigations. The answers you give me to the fines imposed on illegal gambling companies are of the same order. Six fines since 2013 for €360,000 are not likely to scare those who would be tempted to have illegal practices as companies offering games. Just connect to the internet to do so. I also do not think that this can deter citizens wishing to play on these sites, at the risk of sometimes losing a lot of money. The gambling and control sector deserves more resources and attention from the public authority you represent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I come back to you with a question that I asked you in September and for which you were unable to answer me. I hope that two months later, you will be more so. Information was published by various newspapers, such as The Guardian, De Tijd and L'Écho, concerning very serious suspicions of corruption by parliamentarians of the Council of Europe Assembly who allegedly showed a very great manslaughter towards Azerbaijan, whose democratic evolution as a State they had to assess. Several companies but also two parliamentarians were mentioned in this file, former MP Open Vld Stefaan Goris and the current Brussels MP Alain Destexhe, both founding members of the ASBL European Academy for Elections Observation. The published articles were particularly well documented and the elements cited were particularly troubling and disturbing from a democratic point of view, compared to what might be termed "Azerigate". Through the website of the Belgian Moniteur, one can also have access to the statutes and accounts of this ASBL which are not without asking questions. In keeping with the separation of powers and the secrecy of any information or judicial investigation, on 21 September I asked you about the judicial follow-up to this information and, more specifically, about the existence of judicial information on this subject. In particular, you replied that "it is first and foremost up to the Attorney General or the King's Prosecutor to decide whether there is sufficient evidence to open an information or an investigation", which you obviously believe is "largely premature to demand from them information on such a decision". I didn't demand anything. I was asking for information. I come back two months later on the same issue and hope that justice has been able to move forward in the meantime. Minister, can you tell me whether, on the basis of the public information on this file, judicial information has been initiated? If not, do you intend to use your right of positive injunction to do so? If judicial information has been initiated, what prosecutor has this information been entrusted to? What can you tell us about the status of this case? Has a request for judicial cooperation been made by Belgium or another State in this case? How has this potential request been answered?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u5	Mr Gilkinet, I can inform you that the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels has opened information in connection with this case. According to article 28quinquies of the Code of Criminal Investigation, it is up to the King's prosecutor to make communications concerning information and its advancement when the public interest so requires. In keeping with the separation of powers, I cannot at present give any more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u6	Mr Minister, we are making progress: we have started from a non-response and we have reached confirmation of the opening of judicial information. Given the politically sensitive nature of this dossier, since it potentially concerns one of our former colleagues and one of our current colleagues, I will continue to pay attention to this issue. I hope that the same will be true of your leader because he is asking himself democratically sensitive questions. As I always say, information goes both ways. Perhaps it will provide elements that will lead to the absence of prosecution. But if elements deserve prosecution, they must be activated. We have an example role to play from a democratic point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u7	Minister, you have debated in this committee your bill to reform the justices of the peace. This "restructuring" follows a previous wave of rationalizations aimed at fiscal consolidation. It was decided to close the justices of peace of Philippeville (still the capital of the arrondissement) and Walcourt (the most populated commune of the arrondissement). On the other hand, the justices of peace of Couvin and Florennes were maintained. The justice of peace in Couvin currently covers the population of the towns and communes of Cerfontaine, Couvin, Doische, Philippeville and Viroinval, while the justice of peace in Florennes covers the population of Florennes and Walcourt plus two Dinantese communes, Hastière and Onhaye. The bill reforming the judicial cantons continues this rationalization and provides for a single judicial canton which would cover the seven communes of the district of Philippeville plus the two above-mentioned dinantese communes, with Philippeville as its sole seat. This represents a territory of about a thousand square kilometres. The stakes of the debate are ultimately the access of all to justice. This is the first line of justice that is taken away from citizens in an extended region with – alas – few public transport. Mr Minister, will the justices of peace in Couvin and Florennes be well closed? A transitional provision is provided for in the Bill. Do you confirm that you are working with the Régie des Bâtiments to build a federal administrative centre in Philippeville that would host the FPS Finances and Justices of Peace of the FPS Justice? Can you tell me about the schedule of work? How long will this provisional situation be maintained? Minister, you have developed the notion of "justice under the tree". Can you tell us more? How do you envisage this "justice under the tree" in a vast rural area? Do you expect, for example, that the municipalities will make available premises for permanences or meetings since the old buildings will no longer be available? I hope that all this will be done in good conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u8	Mr. Delizée, I am not aware of the previous intentions to close Philippeville and Walcourt. Moreover, the latter entity forms a double canton with Florennes and is therefore not a separate canton. Couvin is also a double canton, but with Philippeville. Their centralization was therefore resumed in the first phase of the plan. Pending the new building in Philippeville, a temporary centralization in Couvin was undertaken in September 2016. From the outset, we had made it clear that Florennes-Walcourt would close and that Philippeville would remain. Their disputes will be brought to the latter, since these two cantons will eventually constitute only one. My services are working with those of the Régie des Bâtiments to build a new administrative centre in Philippeville, in which the justice of peace of the new canton will be relocated. This transitional situation will continue throughout the construction of the building by the Régie. With regard to the schedule of work, I invite you to ask my colleague responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments. As for the modality of "justice under the tree", it was laid down by the law "Pot-pourri V". We will wait in the course of 2018 for requests from the local authorities to install a "justice under the tree", preferably in conjunction with the competent justice of the peace, in the communal house of the headquarters or canton deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u9	Minister, thank you. On the one hand, you do not confirm the closure of Philippeville and Walcourt. On the other hand, you confirm the construction of the federal building, which will eventually host the justices of peace in the nine communes that will be recentralised. I understand that it is the Régie des Bâtiments that can provide a response to the schedule of work. On the other hand, it is also true that the bill provides for a transitional provision. Therefore, if I understand correctly, centralization in Philippeville can only be organized from the moment the building is operational. Is that how I have to hear your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u10	Mr Delizée, I read my answer: pending the new building in Philippeville, a provisional centralisation in Couvin was undertaken in September 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u11	Yes, that's right: a temporary centralization in Couvin, after which this building will be closed, while Philippeville will become the new administrative center competent for this territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u12	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u13	Perfect. As far as the notion of "justice under the tree" is concerned, you say that you are waiting for the demands expressed by the municipalities themselves. Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u14	Question No 21759 by Mr Olivier Maingain is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u15	Mr President, Minister, since the entry into force of the environmental law enforcement decree, a distinction has been made in Flanders between environmental infringements and environmental crimes. Environmental infringements can only be administratively fined. Environmental crimes can be prosecuted under criminal law, but if the King's Attorney decides not to do so, an administrative fine may be imposed. Minister, what is the prosecution policy on environmental crime? Were there any agreements between the parquet and the competent Flemish administration? How many files have been transferred to the public prosecutor every year since 2009 and how many of them have been prosecuted? What were the reasons not to prosecute?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, there is good cooperation between the public prosecutors and the competent Flemish administrations on criminal sanctions in the field of environmental crime. Within the short timeframe for answering an oral question, I cannot obtain figures from the statistical analysts of the Public Prosecutor's Office. An environmental enforcement report has been drawn up by the Flemish Environment Council every year since 2009 which includes all the figures requested by you, together with an explanation of the environmental prosecution policy. The environmental enforcement report charts in a very extensive way how environmental violations are detected and punished in Flanders. It includes an overall evaluation of Flemish environmental enforcement policy and a specific evaluation of the individual enforcement instruments. I would like to refer to those reports, which can be found on the website of the Flemish government every year. The pages per year will be sent to you in writing shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u18	Question No 22061 by Mr Cheron is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u19	Minister, on 14 June I asked you a question about simpler language in legal documents. You replied: "A working group on the readability of judgments and judgments is currently looking at ways to structure and make judicial decisions more readable." Mr Minister, can you give us an update on how far the working group is at? Has he made any recommendations? On the basis of these recommendations will you take new measures to better structure and make judicial decisions more readable?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u20	Ms Lambrecht, following the decision of 14 September 2016 of the Joint Management Committee at the Federal Public Service Justice, a working group on Readability was set up under the chairmanship of Mr Allaert, counsel at the Ghent Appeals Court. The working group met for the first time on 27 January 2017. He intends to structure the layout of criminal decisions uniformly in the light of the processing of the data from the decision-making part of a judgment or judgment. The aim is to be able to computerize the data in order to avoid paper and document flows from the Registrys to other public authorities such as the Central Criminal Register, the FPS Finance, etc. Documents should also be able to be structured in such a way that ICT applications can digitally re-create the information contained therein. The work of the working party, which is also situated within the College of the courts and courts, has not yet been completed. As a result, there are no recommendations at present on which I could take a position. However, I can inform you that a number of meetings have already been held with clerks and magistrates of the police court, the court of first instance, and the appeal court, in order to see how the decision-making part can be simplified. There has also been a state of play on the project at the College of Courts and Courts. The target date for achieving the intended result is the end of this judicial year or June 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the update and look forward to June 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 22071 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u23	Mr President, Minister, the court has identified 26 suspects who participated in the riots on 11 November in the centre of Brussels. One of them is Mohamed T., who was sentenced to 20 months in prison in August. Barely a month later he was released in anticipation of an anklet, so he could rage undisturbed during the looting. The man has now been apprehended on suspicion of theft and destruction of a building. But before, he was convicted three times for thefts involving forced entry and/or violence. He got a job every time. In August he ran into the lamp for a fourth time. He got 20 months in jail for another violent robbery. Despite that punishment Mohamed T. was already free on 15 November and together with three hundred other rioters he looted a furniture store and a night shop, during the riots after the match lvoorcoast-Morocco. He only spent a month in jail after his conviction in August. Afterwards he was free, waiting for an ankle bracelet. Mr. Secretary, I have some questions. First of all, would it not be logical for those sentenced to a prison sentence, who can benefit from a home sentence through an executive court with an anklet, to stay in prison until the anklet is effectively available? Secondly, what measures will you take to prevent such a situation from happening in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u24	Mrs Lambrecht, according to the information I received from the parole board, the person concerned received 200 hours and 100 hours respectively in 2014 and 2016. In August, he was sentenced to 20 months in prison. He stayed in prison from 21 June to 25 September 2017, more than three months of which a large proportion were in remand. First, if the criminal court grants the modality of electronic supervision to a sentenced person who has been punished for more than three years, then that person shall remain in prison until the ankle bracelet is effective. As soon as the sentence is pronounced, the connection of the anklet is put in order as a matter of priority by the Centre for Electronic Supervision of the Department of Justice, so that the sentenced person can usually leave prison after a few days, after finalisation of the sentence, to undergo electronic surveillance on the same day. This is therefore the regime applicable to persons with penalties which exceed three years and are treated in accordance with the law of 2 May 2017 on the external legal status of convicted persons. For convicts with sentences of up to 3 years' imprisonment, there is another arrangement. Where, at the decision of the prison director, they undergo the further conduct of their prison sentences under electronic supervision, they shall be temporarily suspended until the connection to the anklet can be arranged. In practice, the two electronic monitoring centres need a few weeks, sometimes a little longer. During that period, of course, they must not commit any offence, on penalty of withdrawal, as was the case in the present case. For those sentenced with penalties over 3 years, therefore, no measures should be taken, either legally or in practice. For the shorter-term punishments, the scheme does indeed provide for a penalty interruption, so that everyone who is eligible can actually be punished under supervision. I would point out that there are few failures and that electronic supervision for short-term punishment has a good influence on the convicted person. According to a 2015 NICC study, the relapse rate for persons with sentences up to 3 years under electronic supervision is significantly lower than for those who spent their time in prison. After 1 year, 18% of the regular detainees were returned to the cell, compared with only 5% of the electronic surveillance group. I can still tell you that the person concerned is now undergoing the further course of his sentence of 20 months in prison and that if the riots are convicted, this new sentence will be added to those 20 months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u25	Minister, I can only welcome the end of your reply, namely that severe penalties have now been imposed. However, I wonder whether we should not consider considering this in committee. 20 months is close to 3 years. It is very bad that recidivists can then wander around and commit such facts back, as in this case. The electronic anklet system often works very well, but that is actually a fault for the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u26	Mr President, Minister, it is certainly not common for you to be asked about hypnosis. At the end of 2017, a famous Canadian hypnotist made a tour in Belgium. It will pass, in particular, through Marche-en-Famenne and Liège. It has already happened in Brussels and several other cities in the past without any problems. However, the show that was to take place in Colfontaine on November 15th was cancelled. In question, a decision of the prosecutor of the King of Mons referring to the law of 30 May 1892 on hypnotism. It states in its first article that "anyone who has given a show to a person who is hypnotized by himself or by others shall be punished by imprisonment". At one of their meetings following this decision, the French-speaking King's prosecutors felt that each of them could make the decision that he considered the right one in his constituency. As a result, no prosecutor followed the Montoise decision. The date of Colfontaine will therefore remain the only date cancelled. Minister, in addition to the fact that this event leads to a lack of consistency with totally contradictory decisions according to the judicial districts, do you not find that this 1892 law is now outdated? At a time when hypnosis has entered the morals, whether for a purpose of entertainment - dozens of such shows take place every month in our country - or clinical, is it still necessary today, for the law, to prohibit this type of performance?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u27	Mr.President, Mr.Flahaux, it is true that the legal basis rests in an old 1892 law which is still applicable. In addition, the Act was further amended in 2003 following a report on the harmonization of penalties. The legislator had then explicitly decided not to decriminalize, rightly or not. The legis ratio of the 1892 Act is based on the vision that hypnosis should be considered a medical practice that deserves protection, like all other medical treatments, against the illegal exercise of medicine. In my view, a possible amendment of this law must be submitted to my colleague, the Minister of Public Health, on the basis of a scientific medical opinion. In addition, it also seems difficult for a prosecutor to allow it to be done by ignoring the law and announcing that he will not prosecute any violation of the law, while disputes over such performances clearly exist in the medical world. As far as the specific case is concerned, I can inform you that the King's prosecutor, in agreement with the Attorney-General's Office, warned the mayor of Colfontaine of the illegality of this type of performance, informing him that he was violating the law by authorizing this type of entertainment. He gave him no order or injunction, which is not in his power. It was the mayor who decided to cancel the show. This is not really surprising, since Quebecer Messmer who organizes this type of show is strongly criticized in the medical world by the true specialists of hypnosis. The letters sent by the Prosecutor of the King of Mons to the mayor were sent to the other King's prosecutors involved in this type of performance, as well as to the general prosecutors of Liège and Brussels. The College of Attorneys General will consider criminal policy in this area after consultation with public health experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. You follow a logic that I understand and respect. The general public could, however, be disconcerted by the different or even divergent attitudes adopted by the King's prosecutors in different boroughs. This is a lack of coherence. For the rest, I can understand your logic. I'm asking myself questions. I will also prepare another question for the Minister of Public Health. I think we've moved the thinking a little further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic772x.u29	Question No 22121 by Mr Benoît Friart is transformed into a written question.
