ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, the questions are addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs, Mrs De Block. Welcome, Madam Secretary. I'd like to start with a service announcement. Due to the recent cyber attack yesterday, the services decided to disconnect all computers from the network for security reasons. As a result, some of the questions submitted could no longer be answered. Those questions will be postponed until the next meeting. These are the following questions: President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Hedebouw, One of Mr Daerden's questions would certainly add the Minister to the first set of merged questions, because they are on the same subject, but Mr Daerden is obviously not aware of this. It would not be fair for that question to lapse. I therefore propose that we postpone this question until the next meeting, even if it deals with the same subject as the first questions put together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u2	Three speakers were absent: Mr Blanchart, Mr Van Quickenborne and Mr Massin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u3	Madam Secretary, the number of long-term sick is increasing every year in our country. The long-term disease rate has even tripled in 15 years. This is demonstrated by research carried out by the HR service provider Securex. It is striking that not only the elderly but also more and more 30s and 40s are long-term absent from work. The long-term disease rate has doubled in 30s over five years and almost tripled in ten years. In the 40s, the percentage was increased by more than half at five years' time, in the fifties and early sixties by about a third. The annual increase in this number is evidence of an increasing trend, which is expected to continue in the coming years. Over the past year, the number of long-term absentees has increased particularly among workers between 35 and 44 years of age. The main causes of this increase are the extension of the professional career due to the higher retirement age and chronic stress caused by heavy working conditions. We see a lot of people with mental illness, such as burnouts and depressions, and people with problems with muscles and joints, for example cts (carpal tunnel syndrome), tendinitis and so on. In the case of workers in particular, the number of sick people is increasing significantly because of their long career, because the physical burden continues to increase. Among older workers, many more women are sick as a result of the increase in retirement age to 65 in 2009. The increase in working pressure and the increase in flexibilisation also increased insecurity. As a result, people have less control over their own work, which is particularly detrimental to their mental health. The application of the Peeters Act, the law on workable and manoeuvrable work, will make that situation even worse, we believe. On 31 March the government reached an agreement on the plan for the rehabilitation of long-term ill. In other words, long-term sick people can be sanctioned if they do not participate sufficiently in a reintegration process. You say that the purpose of your plans is to respond to both long-term ill workers and employers, but in fact you work with two sizes and two weights. The employer may incur an administrative fine, but those fines for employers are apparently designed to never be implemented. I come to my questions, Madam Secretary. What measures are you planning to take to reduce the increase in the number of long-term sick? How do you intend to provide adequate adapted work and encourage employers to provide adapted work? Are you prepared to examine proposals related to reducing working hours with wage retention in order to reduce chronic stress, improve working conditions, improve the working-family balance for all and make room for the creation of full-time jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u4	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, as part of the discussion of the bill on various labour law provisions related to incapacity for work, you stated that the Royal Order to be made to implement reintegration routes would not contain sanctions, but that the introduction of sanctions in the event of unwillingness or lack of cooperation was envisaged. It did not take long, since on 31 March last you confirmed by press release that an agreement on sanctions had been reached within the government. Employers who do not make any effort may be punished for a lump sum amount of EUR 800 per individual file. Workers who fail to comply with their administrative obligations are at risk of having their compensation planed by 5 per cent; those who do not go to an interview would have a penalty of 10 per cent; and those who refuse to cooperate are at risk of losing the full amount of their compensation, which is already the case today. Without calling into question the need to punish abuses and encourage reintegration, it seems to us that the issues left in the shadows and the first results of the reintegration journey are likely to give rise to some concern: 72% of the decisions of the occupational doctors would declare workers permanently unfit to return to work. This would lead employers to dismiss patients for medical force majeure. This makes an organisation representative of the workers say that these trips are actually machines to be fired without compensation. To this concern comes the explosion of the number of long-term patients. According to ONSS, last year, nearly 392,000 people had been on sick leave for more than a year, 20,000 more than in 2015. Minister, will long-term patients be able to justify their lack of follow-up on the reintegration journey? It seems to me that a truly ill person, who cannot rely on regular assistance, may in good faith miss a letter or a summons or be unable to go there. Can you ensure that the necessary means have been put in place to assess situations on a case-by-case basis and to ensure their administrative follow-up? Do these measures take account in particular of the increase in the number of long-term patients? What are the first findings since the entry into force of the reintegration route? Would it not be better to establish a period of observation, detection of perverse effects and proven abuse before considering sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u5	Madam President, I will also give the answer to Mr Daerden. We checked his question. He may still put them, but I shall refer to this detailed answer. Mr Hedebouw, Mrs Caprasse, since 1 December last, new measures have entered into force for the support and support of persons recognised as disabled and for the establishment of a socio-professional reintegration route. They are defined in the Royal Decree of 8 November 2016 inserting a new section VIquater in Chapter III contained in Title III of the Royal Decree of 3 July 1996 implementing the coordinated law of 14 July 1994 on compulsory health care and allowances insurance. As part of these new measures, a path of socio-occupational reintegration can now be envisaged for persons with sufficient remaining capacities, provided that this is compatible with their health status. Such support will require the employee concerned to cooperate reasonably with a view to establishing such a journey. As far as the number of persons recognized as disabled is concerned, I can communicate it to you in writing. To this end, I will forward the table to the Chair. In any case, between 2005 and 2015, the increase was around 8% per year. On March 31, the Council of Ministers decided on the direction to be taken for the accountability of employers and incumbents. Employers who do not make sufficient efforts to reintegrate disabled workers are at risk of receiving a fine of EUR 800. As for the incumbents, if they fail to meet their reintegration obligations, e.g. by failing to complete the questionnaires or by failing to attend the medical-social examination for no valid reason, they could lose 5 to 10 per cent of their compensation for one month. Finally, treating physicians who prescribe periods of incapacity that are too long will be interviewed. As far as employers are concerned, we are aware that not all employers have the same opportunities to offer adapted jobs to disabled workers. The government has therefore decided that employers employing up to 50 employees will not be subject to sanctions in the context of socio-professional reintegration. It can be assumed, and the figures confirm, that small and medium-sized enterprises have less opportunities to offer other, adapted jobs than a larger enterprise. Moreover, absenteeism due to long-term illness is considerably lower there. We start with a modest response, including with the employers. That's a conscious choice. Far-reaching accountability can also have counterproductive effects on the labour market and should be taken into account. As regards the question of termination of the contract of employment due to medical force majeure, I do not have the authority to answer that. In the context of the application of the Royal Decree of 28 May 2003 on health surveillance of workers, which falls within the competence of my colleague, the Minister for Labour. With respect to incumbent accountability, I strongly contest the idea that it would have a counterproductive effect on the healing process of a person with long-term illness. Only holders who clearly refuse to cooperate will be at risk of losing 10 per cent of their compensation. In addition, completing the questionnaire in question during the second month of incapacity for work will have a positive effect on the healing process of the worker with disabilities. Incapacity for work does not depend solely on the illness suffered by the person in question. There are at least 13 different factors to consider in the event of incapacity for work. A large part of these thirteen factors have already existed for a long time. The worker has the impression that he has no one to turn to to address his complaints. The questionnaire thus gives him a signal that his complaints will now be heard and taken seriously. This may have a significant positive effect on the healing process. On the other hand, I would like to point out once again that my aim is in no way to deprive as many people as possible of their compensation. The vast majority of them wish to return to work as soon as possible. It is therefore not necessary to proceed by force. Rather, this group of workers needs tailor-made support. Only a small group of incumbents, despite their remaining capacity, refused to return to work. It is only that group that I want to put more pressure on. As regards the rehabilitation of the treating doctors, guidance will also be provided on the reasonable duration of the prescribed incapacity for work. A fork with a minimum and maximum duration will be used. These guidelines will be drawn up by the National College for Social Insurance Medicine on Disability. All medical groups are represented in this body. Those treating doctors who deviate substantially from the guidelines, the so-called outliers on prescription behaviour, will also be called upon to do so. We don't pin ourselves on a date with regard to response. The reintegration scheme will certainly be in place a long time before all the legislative texts, the dialogue with the social partners and the sickness funds and the parliamentary debate are over. That is why it was important to decide on this now, because there are still months between the time of the decision in the Council of Ministers and its elaboration and review in the field with the actors concerned. As part of the most recent interprofessional agreement, the social partners have also committed themselves to carrying out the necessary studies on the issue of burn-out. I would also like to actively support this dialogue between the social partners with the cooperation of the institutions under my responsibility, such as the High Health Council, the RIZIV and Fedris, which has a great deal of expertise in this area. With regard to accountability, I refer to Article 69 of International Labour Organization Convention No. 102 of 1952 concerning Minimum Standards of Social Security. In accordance with these provisions, the sickness benefit may be suspended when the holder does not make sufficient efforts in the context of socio-occupational reintegration. With regard to the empowerment of workers, I refer to article 6 of the 1966 International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. This provision guarantees the right to work. This right implies, among other things, that persons with a professional disability and persons with a long-term disability are part of it and must be able to find a job in the regular labour market in order to be able to earn a living to support themselves but also to be able to develop their talents. The State has an obligation to ensure that private-sector enterprises cooperate in this regard, if they are threatened with sanctions. In order to get a clearer picture of the individual influence of the different factors, the 2017 study programme, which established the knowledge centre of the RIZIV Department for Benefits, also included this topic. In particular, it will also examine the specific interactions between disability and disability and the other branches of social security. In addition, the study will also focus on the simulation of the impact of potential future changes within other branches of social security on the entry into disability and the budget of sickness and invalidity insurance. The study starts in the summer of 2017. A better knowledge of these interactions between the different feet of our social security should also enable us to better assess the budgetary consequences of reforms in these different branches of social security, both in terms of income and costs. This will have to be our guiding principle if further action is to be taken on the extension of working hours, the reduction of working hours and so on. All these parameters can be taken. It is a comprehensive answer, Madam President. That is not the custom, but it is a very important element in which a balance must be sought. We are also one of the last countries in Europe to finally look at what is going on in a modern way, why there is such an exponential increase and how to remedy it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u6	Madam Secretary, thank you for your long answer. You have said a great deal, but it is appalling that you say almost nothing about the causes of the increase in the number of long-term sick in our country. Look at the 30s and the 40s. Something's going on there. You are right that Minister Peeters is also competent. I shall therefore put the question to him. However, if we want to reduce the number of long-term sick, we must do something about the causes. I was talking about the work rhythm, the number of working hours. I'm surprised you didn't say anything about that. A study carried out by the ABVV shows that, in 72% of cases, the employer considers that the employee is permanently unfit. In this sense, it is an instrument to exclude people from the labour market. That is anything but social. It is above all a machine to be excluded that is in motion, which, in my view, is regrettable. I think we should be much more inclusive and resolve the real problems, that is, the cause of this ever-increasing number of long-term patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u7	Madam Minister, of course we agree to detect and punish abuses, but there are two aspects that disturb us in your government's approach: the first is ideological and the second is methodological, both of which are related. The representatives of patients, both Dutch-speaking and French-speaking, recall that four out of five long-term patients would prefer to return to work, you want to provide for sanctions from the outset. We would have preferred a period of observation of the results of the reintegration journey in order to better identify the problems, the possible perverse effects (such as dismissal of patients declared permanently unfit) and consider adaptations. We are waiting for the table you have proposed, which I think is useful for, perhaps, refining our analysis in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 17020 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u9	Madam President, Minister, my question was initially addressed to the Minister of Employment. I don't know why she's coming to your house, but that's how it is! Our young teachers, whether in the North or the South, often have a somewhat precarious status pending their final appointment or access to statutory status. These teachers are paid for the service and know many "holes" in their occupations, especially because of the school holidays. Sometimes they are employed on a part-time basis, sometimes by several schools at a time. But there is a period when they do not actually work: during the summer school holidays, i.e. the first two thirds of the third quarter of the year, which is important. As a result, non-statutory teachers, including those with some stable contracts for part of their time in schools, cannot afford flexi-jobs throughout the second quarter of the year, for lack of sufficient work during this crucial period, which runs from 1 July to 30 September of the previous year. Indeed, it is this quarter, called T3, that serves as a reference to define whether or not the person can be engaged under flexi-jobs. Has this problem been addressed by your services? Is it planned to solve it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u10	Dear colleague, in accordance with the government agreement, flexi-jobs have been created specifically for employees who already have at least one occupation of 4/5th. The measure deliberately focuses on salaried workers who already have a main activity in order to make them side by side in the horeca sector more attractive. In this way, the government aims to support the sector by allowing it to occupy the necessary flexible labour force in a tax and parafiscal way and to combat work in the black. In order to be able to control this basic condition of 80% pre-occupation, it has been provided that these benefits must be provided during the Q3 quarter. This is the time required for ONSS to have the consolidated data available. In the case you refer to, the condition of service up to at least 80% in the reference quarter will mean that a non-statutory teacher will not meet this condition if he or she wishes to be employed as a flexi-job in the horeca sector during the first quarter of the year following a summer holiday. We did not take into account the situation of teachers. It seems to me desirable to examine this specific problem of contract teachers in the planned evaluation of flexi-jobs and, if possible, to find a solution for them. I imagine flexi-jobs would be well suited to their situation, since they still have long holidays. It is true that we did not take teachers into account. You know they have a rather special status. But an evaluation is planned and we will examine this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u11	Madam Minister, thank you. As you said, this has not been taken into account. This is a particular situation and I think it is typically people returning to flexi-job conditions who can take on interesting work in the Horeca, especially during the holiday period, the most touristic in the North as in the South. All these young teachers would be happy to have additional work, especially since they are not paid during this period. I would therefore like to thank you for having noted this situation and for announcing that it will be assessed. I won't fail to return.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Kitir's 17267 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u13	Madam President, Madam Minister, since 2012, there has been an agreement between the RIZIV and the VDAB, whereby workers selected by medical advisers with recognised incapacity for work who offer guidance to a new employment are assisted by the VDAB and the GTB, which are a specialised route determination and guidance service. For 2016, the framework agreement stipulated that medical advisers would lead 1 250 persons. Eventually, there appeared to be almost 4,000 candidates spontaneously, which immediately illustrates that there is a great willingness to make voluntary reintegration efforts for both employees and medical advisers. A substantial proportion of the training is training, with part of the training being discontinued for medical reasons. We must therefore remain realistic. However, the success rate for the completed training courses is very high. In general, we also see that a large proportion of those involved are catalogued after the project's participation as written off because of illness. So, once again, realism remains imperative. About 40% of the candidates who completed the trajectory flowed to work. Of them, 35% are still employed twenty-four months after the completion of the route. This is the only way to achieve the objective set out in the framework agreement. Such cooperation is therefore useful and desirable and should be extended. However, the figures show that realism is needed. What surprises me, however, is that the RIZIV allocated EUR 6 million to the VDAB for 1 250 entries in 2016. Since 4 000 grants were spontaneously awarded in 2016, the 2017 agreement increased the target to 3 750 persons and increased the amount granted to 18 million euros. However, the VDAB has the task of accompanying every job seeker, including the job seeker with a disability and the voluntarily registered job seeker. I have the following questions. Does such funding still fit from a federal social parastatal to a regional employment service as part of the state reform? Do you share my view that this is about expensive guidance? Is there such an agreement with Actiris and Forem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u14	Madam President, Ms De Coninck, the review of the framework agreement concluded in 2016 between RIZIV, VICO, GTB and VDAB is positive. The transition to the framework agreement has led to a better influx of jobseekers into the VDAB projects and has also improved activation. Communication between the different actors has also improved and the actors in the workplace find each other better, leading to efficiency gains. However, I share your caution. It can always be better. The quantitative parameters set out in the 2016 Framework Agreement have been met. In the field of influx, they have been largely exceeded. In the framework agreement it was agreed that the counsellors of the insurance institutions concerned undertook to refer to 1 250 recognized invalids who are eligible for guidance to work through the services of the VDAB and its partners. In practice, almost 4,000 people were listed. This means a threefold increase in the initial figure on an annual basis. There are also good results in terms of outflow. Of the number of completely terminated project participations, 39.2 % flows to work. In addition, two years after the end of the journey, it appears that more than 35% is still at work. Therefore, the commitment of the VDAB to seek maximum outflow to work of the referred group, with a percentage of 35% considered realistic, was achieved. The vision and agreement note accompanying the 2016 Framework Agreement included a clause which states that, and I quote, in case of underutilisation or overrun of the inflow by more than 10%, the consequences for the following calendar year should be determined by mutual agreement through the Flemish Steering Committee. As already indicated, the number of notifications was three times the estimated number on which the 2016 budget was based. Growth is expected for 2017, but less pronounced. The increase in the budget is proportional to the numbers actually achieved in 2016. On an annual basis, this would indeed amount to an inflow of nearly 3 750 files. A budget of EUR 4 800 per file should indeed be earmarked for this purpose. I also refer to the general conclusion of the report 'Activation out of incapacity for work'. How to overcome the dual handicap is social efficiency in its social and economic aspects........................................................................................................................................................................................................ This is a 2016 report by Annelies De Coninck, Frederic De Wispelaere, the well-known Jozef Pacolet and Miet Lamberts. This is a research commissioned by the Flemish Minister responsible for Work, within the framework of the VIONA research programme. An important conclusion from the report is the following, and I quote: "It means that the cost of mediation in the cooperation agreement on average or for the total group could be quickly recovered. After one quarter this budgetary cost could be compensated and the return on investment would be even better in a broader definition of the social cost-benefit analysis, including the increased income of the employee. The benefit-to-cost ratio becomes even more favourable as more quarters are taken into account. Finding work also increases a number of quarters after the routes have been completed. It's called the The new job found also proves to be sustainable, non-essentially less in terms of income and probably even more quality in the sense that the job is more adapted to the competences of the person who was previously unfit for work. Further investment in the cooperation agreement pays not only because it is cost-effective in the relatively short term, but also because it offers the disabled beneficiary a sustainable job adapted to its competences. The good cooperation between all actors is the advisory physician, as a specialist in incapacity for work; the RIZIV, which provides the framework within which the agreement can be implemented; VDAB and GTB, the labour market specialists are significantly increasing efficiency and has contributed to substantially increasing the number of inputs. The additional financing of both the orientation and the training provided by the RIZIV is certainly justified, given a rapid recovery effect. The interaction between the federal and regional levels offers added value in this dossier. I shall then come to your final question. A framework agreement was reached with the VDAB. On 15 January, a joint agreement was concluded with Forem and on 5 November with Actiris.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u15	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer, which mainly consisted of defending the activation and guidance, from different perspectives, of people with disabilities and illness. Giving people opportunities and a customized accompaniment, I support that. You know that. I note, however, Madam Minister, that Minister Muyters and Mr Fons Leroy clearly state in the Flemish press that there must be a further state reform and that Flanders should have the right to do everything in terms of guidance. There may be something to be said for that, but I also notice that they often speak with a double tongue. On the one hand they want to do all that, on the other hand they are asking the federal government to do it, while they can do it all much better and have the money to do it. Here there is a constant debate on savings in social security. They could do it for a great deal, if only they were doing their job. I find it unimaginable that they always call out, while they should first do their job well, with the means they have.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u16	Madam Minister, what I assessed as an important step forward in the new legislation and implementing decisions on the reintegration of people with disabilities, which, moreover, the social partners have always stressed in their previous opinions, was the multidisciplinary approach. It was also discussed in the previous question. It is almost a disgrace to note that these three doctors, each in their own way and for their assignment with the same patient, hardly or often do not communicate with each other. It often even happens that the counseling physician does not know who the occupational physician is, especially if the company works with an external prevention service. Reconciliation and optimisation of the opportunities for this are usually not the subject of any communication at all. However, part of the general practitioners, Domus Medica, from the specific role of the general practitioner in sometimes conflicting expectations, in particular the monitoring of the patient's health, on the one hand, and the expectation of a resumption of work as soon as possible by the employer and the sickness funds, on the other, have long been asking that general practitioners should be given more guidance and guidance in fulfilling their role. I'm sure you can imagine something about that. Regular local meetings between representatives of the three professions could be highly educational in the sense that best practices and mutual expectations and experiences can be exchanged and shared. However, we have to note that such consultations have not yet been built on a structural basis. Fortunately, following a colloquium organised by SSST, SSMG and ASMA in 2012, a number of doctors in Wallonia and Brussels joined forces, leading to the TRIO project. If I am correct, the High Commission of the RIZIV Medical Council decided in mid-2015 to grant a small financial support of EUR 55 000. This is a noble initiative, bringing together the doctors' groups at the general practitioner's or LOK level, with the aim of getting to know the various reintegration paths that can be offered and testing them against the real limitations of the patients known to general practitioners, with training modules being developed. Nevertheless, I cannot get rid of the impression that much depends on the voluntarism and the commitment of some passionate doctors. They often have to look for interested general practitioners themselves and for tools to communicate with each other. At the end of 2016, attempts would have been made to get something off the ground in Flanders. In their activities they are also trying to define and shape what the new rules on reintegration bring them. In fact, I find it sad that such important initiatives are very dependent on the creativity of some individuals with too few reach. The new regulations also expect a great deal from the counsellors. For the workers for whom they consider it realistic, they are supposed to work out reintegration pathways, but I have already noted that when discussing the draft law they are given little or no tools on how to do so. I have said before that any project to achieve an increased degree of integration of disabled workers after speed in contact will also require investment. Madam Minister, do you share my view that the reintegration of workers would benefit from more structural consultation and exchange of experience between the three doctors involved and that projects such as TRIO should actually have a structural anchoring and generalised roll-out throughout the country, to all LOCs or GPs? Do you share my view that this requires the RIZIV to invest substantially in it, including with an adequate budget? In the explanatory notes to your 2017 budget and your policy letter, you stated that you also want to respond to the treating physicians for their prescription behaviour. My group has already put forward this idea, which should not even be sanctioned in the first instance; according to the example of what happened in the case of antibiotics at the time, a peer review could be carried out among doctors according to conditions. In a subsequent phase, any outliers could then be called upon to answer. Are you realizing that line of thinking from your policy letter? Do you agree with me that prior local consultations such as the TRIO project should be developed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u17	The TRIO projects have indeed been the inspiration for the development of multidisciplinary reintegration pathways. It has been shown experimentally that the contact between the three doctors indeed has a positive impact on the patient's guidance. When the treating doctor, the contact person of the prevention service, sometimes the occupational physician and the counseling doctor are in contact with the following possible steps of a patient who has been identified with a residual capacity for work, a re-entry into the labour market is much more likely than when there is no contact and all three are on a different wavelength. The new RB on reintegration explicitly mentions the structural consultation between the three doctors involved. To this end, the RIZIV, together with eHealth, is developing an electronic application called eForms, also known as MyBox, which will facilitate the consultation. In concrete terms, the general practitioner will automatically be able to send a signal via eForms to the health insurance fund or the prevention service to determine whether a reintegration can be started. He's asking the patient if he can do it for him. There are, of course, a number of medical elements that are communicated confidentially and encrypted. In other words, this information can only be opened by the doctor, who must also observe professional secrecy. Then there is also the personal feeling about the possibilities and the concerns of the journey, with possibly a first proposal of reintegration in consultation with and only with the patient's approval. Hospital funds and prevention services are then ready to follow up on the applications. In this way, communication between doctors is made possible in a structural way throughout the country. For example, every doctor will automatically be able to send a communication to his or her counterpart without having to spend a lot of time in it. The communication tool only exists between the three doctors, with full respect for professional secrecy. The TRIO projects were launched in Wallonia and Brussels and rolled out in general. At the initiative of the Knowledge Centre for Disability of the Benefits Service, a pilot project was also launched in Flanders in early 2017. On the basis of the reporting by the TRIO partners, the extent to which further roll-out can be carried out and whether further anchoring in existing initiatives, such as the LOC groups, is appropriate in the coming months, will be evaluated. The TRIO projects were financially supported by the Disability Knowledge Centre of the Benefits Service. You wrongly mentioned the Supreme Court. It's definitely about the Social Security Office. We have also allocated funds for the development of the tool and the experts who evaluate whether the tool is working properly. The response of doctors is, of course, also an important addition and had never happened before. You advocated guidelines on the reasonable duration of the incapacity to work for the most common pathologies. These will be developed in the form of a fork with a minimum and maximum duration by the National College of Social Insurance Medicine on incapacity for work, in which medical groups are also represented. Treating doctors who deviate substantially from the guidelines, the so-called outliers, will be addressed to their different prescribing behaviour. I also refer to the adjustment we have already made, in particular the indication of the start and end of incapacity for work on the forms. According to a study by the Independent Sickness Funds, only the indication of the end date by the doctor would have resulted in a reduction of disability by nine days, simply because the doctor is already somewhat responsive at the time he decides how long the patient will be absent. He didn't have to do that before. That's what the doctors have already been more responsive to. It will also allow us to create profiles according to the prescription behavior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I believe that the response of the doctors is one of the points for discussion. Some doctors deal with issues of disability in great responsibility, but other doctors do not. The doctors are often also put under pressure by patients. However, sometimes it is difficult to predict when someone will not be sick anymore. Even the doctors who take great responsibility for this are not social workers. They often do not know the possibilities for reintegration into the labour market in the event of the loss of certain competences. The development of a tool or a platform certainly seems necessary, a kind of black box. It should be indicated where, when and through which procedures one can go for alternative employment. Many doctors have absolutely no idea and they didn't have to, but maybe now they do. That is why I think you should organise the information and develop networks around it. The doctors must indicate it and see the prospects. If I look at what is happening in Antwerp, where a lot of alternative, social and adapted employment is being systematically reduced, then I wonder where these people are going.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u19	Questions Nos 17389 by Mr Van den Bergh and 17507 by Mr Geerts are converted into written questions. I would like to ask the honourable Members who are now present whether they agree with Mrs Fonck's question first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u20	It's been an hour since I've been here waiting for my turn. I also have something else to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u21	That's why I'm asking you the question. You can ask your question now, if you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u22	I didn't mean to. That's because I came earlier. I had a question, but I had a commission at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u23	Mr Gilkinet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u24	Madam President, Madam Minister, as part of its Vision 2020 plan, BNP Paribas Fortis' management is considering various changes to its pay system. Among them, I was able to discover, in an internal document, the desire to make greater use of the system of units. In the bank's internal jargon, these are units that "acquire material goods, services, training or conversion to cash" to the detriment of conventional remuneration. Thus, the part of the salary exceeding 4,700 euros per month or the 13th month (which would be monthly) would be paid in units. Such a development, if confirmed, raises questions both at the legal level and as regards the financing of social security, since gross wages (with payment of social contributions) would be transformed into net benefits, without a contribution to social security. This is not the first time that the banking sector in general - BNP Paribas Fortis - has used this type of transaction and parasalarial practices, without any reaction from the federal government. In response to my question on the subject, on Tuesday 21 March, the Minister of Employment referred me to you as follows: "As for the specific question concerning the treatment of these units and their transformation into benefits or cash, I refer you to the Minister of Social Affairs. Together with my colleague Minister De Block, we will examine what escape and optimisation techniques are now being developed by employers as part of the harmonization of the concept of remuneration. This certainly needs to be examined and studied more closely." While stating this: "I therefore have serious doubts as to the conformity of this payment in units with the law concerning the protection of workers' remuneration and will also entrust my inspection services with a more in-depth examination. This is why companies such as BNP Paribas Fortis, which work with public funds, need to be further studied." Minister, is the transformation of wages into units or other units of this type, not subject to social security, in your opinion, in conformity with the law on the protection of workers' remuneration? Should this type of agreement be the subject of prior agreement by the SPF Social Security? In what form? Was it requested by BNP Paribas Fortis? What response has been given? On what basis? Can the impact of this scheme on the financing of social security be assessed? What would be the cost to social security? Do you intend to react proactively to BNP Paribas Fortis' management in relation to this part of its Vision 2020 plan to undertake an inspection mission on this subject or to inform it of your disagreement with this approach? Have you cooperated with your colleague in charge of employment on this issue? When? With what result? In general, do you have an assessment of these parasalarial practices developed in particular in the banking sector? Do you intend to put in place a strategy to prevent or prohibit them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u25	Madam President, dear colleague, the wage agreement that BNP Paribas Fortis has concluded with its workers can be seen as part of a more global trend whereby employers and workers seek ways to make remuneration more flexible and individualised. However, this new form of remuneration sometimes causes some tension with our current social security. Remuneration is the basis for social security coverage. If benefits are granted in any form, account must be taken of the existing rules on benefits. In defining remuneration, social security is based on the concept described in the Law on the Protection of Workers' Compensation, which is one of the basic laws of labour law. Thus, each benefit, in any form whatsoever, which is granted to a salaried worker and to which the latter is entitled by reason of the employer's commitment is, in principle, a remuneration on which social security contributions are due. With regard to the question of whether the transformation of the wage into units of the BNP Paribas Fortis Vision 2020 plan to which you refer in your question is in line with the law on the protection of workers' remuneration, I am obliged to refer you to my colleague Kris Peeters, who is competent with regard to the specific rules on the concept of remuneration and more specifically with regard to the law on the protection of remuneration. On the other hand, it is clear that the principles of this basic law on remuneration also interfere with social security because of the fact that reference rules are included in the social security regulations. Therefore, I am also very close to developments in this area. That is how I am able to inform you that a study will be launched, which will analyse the wage developments on the labour market and their impact on social security. On the basis of the policy recommendations to be made in this study, the government may decide on the most appropriate response to these developments. Wage agreements are concluded exclusively between employers and employees and are in no way the subject of prior agreements by the SPF Social Security or the ONSS. In any case, such wage agreements must, whatever the sector concerned, invariably comply with the existing rules. In this context, they are always subject to possible inspection by the competent inspection services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u26	Minister, I note with interest that a study and analysis of this increasingly widespread practice in the banking sector will be carried out. I would like to tell you to hurry, because the government is overtaken by the facts. You confirm to me that there has been no prior agreement from your administration on this approach. I do not know what we are waiting for to carry out a check within the company concerned, since you also confirm to me the discrepancy between this practice and the laws on wage protection and the payment of social contributions. You also refer me to the Minister of Employment, who refers me to the Minister of Social Affairs. I will continue my search for an answer, and above all for a response from the government on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament 17470 by Mrs Smaers will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u28	Madam Secretary, the social security services have put in place a system for employers, a kind of e-Box, to communicate with them electronically. This is a good thing in itself, because everything can be done in a more efficient and environmentally friendly way, faster and cheaper. At present, new companies have to register on their own initiative in order to gain access to that system. They will then receive a personal mailbox at the RSZ. I have received various responses from the field of work which show that many entrepreneurs do not register at all. They do not request a password and therefore do not get access to their e-Box. There are several reasons for this. Many employers don't even know they have to do it. Either they're too lax. The application for registration is also apparently rather complex. This has the negative effect that unregistered entrepreneurs lack a lot of essential information. However, it seems to me that there are simpler alternatives, for example by simplifying this procedure. If a new employer signs up and receives a RSZ number or if his old RSZ number is reactivated, the administration could automatically send a password to his address, with a small word explanation. In this way the employer is certainly already aware, so that he later cannot claim that he received nothing or that he did not know he had to register. In any case, he should make less effort to apply for registration. I come to my questions to you, Madam Secretary. How many companies currently have an active e-Box? How many percent of the total number of companies that can theoretically make use of them? Do you share the opinion of the people in the field that the current system is a little too complex? Are you considering simplifying it, for example in the way I have just suggested? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u29	Mrs Pas, at the moment 109 000 RSZ employers have access to their e-Box, out of a total of 247 000. After 1 January 2016, 52 000 RSZ employers registered on their e-Box at least once. In 2017, 2 900 RSZ employers chose to receive documents only digitally. As regards the evolution of the number of publications of documents in the e-Box in companies, in 2012 there were 2 100 000 publications. This figure increased by 14 % in 2013, by 33 % in 2015 and again by 33 % in 2016. The interim status in April 2017 is 1 600 000 publications, an increase of 88 % compared to 2015. The e-Box activation procedure for a company is as follows: A legal representative of the company must appoint a main access manager through CSAM. An address of the company must be sent. This is important for sending notifications. Moreover, an e-mail address was not previously available to contact the company. From that moment on, the e-Box is available to the entrepreneur. The main access manager may, from that point on, appoint other access managers or users and determine their access rights. This is important for sending the notifications with which the company is notified of new messages in the e-Box. There's gonna be an e-mail saying there's mail in the e-box. One should also look in the mailbox every day, but there are people who let it pop out and let the mail carry through the wind. In this case, however, it is still announced that there is a new message in the e-Box. I agree that the management of access managers is a continuous improvement process. Since 2016 it has been a simple process for 80% of companies, with two screens and fully automatic validations, but by the end of 2017 an automatic referral between the e-Box and the activation procedure will be set up, making it even easier for a legal representative of a company that would not have activated its e-Box yet. In most cases, it is verified that the company has activated its e-Box before publishing a document. The e-Box can therefore be used. An e-mail address is available to signal the receipt of a new document. At present there is no legal obligation to use the e-Box and companies do so only on a voluntary basis. It is important to obtain a clear commitment from the companies. They should be aware and aware that their official communications are transmitted through that channel. For example, very recently, since the end of 2016, each company has been able to grant its approval to receive the available documents only digitally via the e-Box, which is a so-called opt-in. The aim is to reach a critical mass of companies that are convinced and ready to use the e-Box before we will require its use. In support of the various digitalisation strategies, the RSZ proposes different types of support to help companies optimally guide. In particular, the website collects all practical information about the activation of the e-Box and the digitisation process in general. There are tips on the website and they also guide the company in the activation of the e-Box and the management of the received electronic documents. These are targeted information, which, in consultation with end-users, is gradually improved through different user groups and through the feedback provided by users. The website will also recreate the list of documents that will soon be available digitally and also contain a link to other available online services. There is also a quick start in few simple steps to use the e-Box via the activation procedure of CSAM. There is also a communication through other channels to optimally support digitisation strategies, such as flyers, promotional documents for a mixed campaign, announcements on the Social Security portal and a repeated publication in the newsletter. Continuous improvements are also made to the e-Box. They are also based on user feedback. User interviews and telephone surveys are taking place. Focus groups are also used. This is important in determining the priority of new functionalities. I therefore agree that this can always be improved. They're working hard on it, too. There's always feedback. The use is in a rapid. There's a hard bet on it. People will also need to be convinced through word-of-mouth advertising that the system for a company is much easier and faster to obtain all documents and that the documents are also stored directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply. When I ask questions in this House, I usually do not get an answer to all the questions. Not only do I get an answer to my questions, but I also get a lot more explanations in the margins on questions that I haven't even asked. Thank you again for your detailed explanation. You gave me a lot of numbers. I will read it quietly, but they prove that digitalisation is rising as well as the number of publications. It is indeed a voluntary system, but it is, of course, recommended that as many companies as possible participate. As you have confirmed, it is faster, cheaper and simpler. You said that 109 000 out of 247 000 companies have now been registered and that there is now a rapid pace. One gets mails when there is mail in the e-Box, but that only happens after registration. It is the number of registered persons to be increased. I am therefore pleased that you are open to a simpler procedure, even if it seems to me to be the most logical procedure at the time when a new employer is assigned a RSZ number. You said that we would not have the e-mail address yet. Well, I think this is the time to immediately request an e-mail address from that company and work proactively. One can immediately send a password explaining how to register for the e-Box, in the hope that the number of registrations goes up, like all the other numbers you just gave.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts' 17809 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u32	Madam President, Madam Minister, this government has ensured that post-retirement work can and also becomes more interesting. For example, a person who is 65 years old or who has completed a full career can currently earn unlimited extra earnings after retirement. We can therefore expect more and more pensioners to take advantage of this possibility. However, there remains a problem or discrepancy. When these people become ill, they are only entitled to one month's benefit from their employer and not to an invalidity pension from the RIZIV because the RIZIV does not pay out sickness benefit to 65-plus-agers. However, these people do pay RSZ contributions. Some people who find themselves in this situation speak of discrimination or, in any case, of discouragement to update after retirement. Moreover, it creates the necessary uncertainty for a number of people. The government agreement states that the right to economic unemployment, as well as disability benefits, can be opened for people who continue to work after 65 years. The conditions for granting will be determined by the government. I have the following questions. How do you plan to open the right to disability benefits for retired workers? Do you also envisage measures to prevent improper use or even abuse of this right? The combination of two social security benefits is not evident. Can you tell us about the timing or the next steps planned in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u33	Mr Spooren, today, the worker who opts to continue working after the statutory retirement age of 65 years has only a limited right to disability benefits for up to two months in the context of employee benefit insurance. The benefits are denied from the first day of the second month following that in which the incapacity for work began. For example, if an insured person is recognised as unfit for work from 16 May 2017, he can no longer claim benefits from 1 July. If the person concerned is entitled to a guaranteed wage paid by his employer, the award shall, of course, also be refused during the period covered by the guaranteed wage. I don't think anyone's falling for this. This limited right can be applied on several occasions. Every time the worker concerned is found to be unfit for work outside the time limit, he may again claim benefits up to and including the last day of the month following that in which the incapacity for work began. This limited right to invalidity benefits was always justified by the fact that in the event of a previous long-term incapacity for work, the person concerned may claim a retirement pension as a replacement income. For the sake of completeness, I should also like to point out that this limited right to disability benefit for self-employed persons who continue to work after the statutory retirement age of 65 does not exist at all. That is something we must take with us. In order for workers who continue to work after the statutory retirement age to be entitled to benefits, the medical adviser of the sickness fund must recognise their status as unfit for work. The same criteria and procedures shall apply to workers who become unfit for work before the statutory retirement age. So far we have not identified any particular abuses in the application of this limited law. A possible extension of this limited right to incapacity for work is being examined. You know that a number of major balances must be sought, not only for the self-employed system but also in the light of the debate on the periods treated and the rights associated with them. We must maintain the balance and ensure that we do not close a door on the one hand and open a gate on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u34	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. Do I understand correctly that after the month guaranteed wages are also entitled to one month's incapacity for work? I didn't know that. It is being examined whether this can be extended?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u36	It's a good thing you're watching that. There's already something more possible than I thought. Indeed, we must maintain the balance between the accumulation of two income replacement benefits, on the one hand, and the fact that these people pay contributions and are entitled to benefits, on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u37	Madam President, Minister, the Ministers for Social Affairs, Labour and Employment of ten Member States of the European Union met in Matignon on 2 March 2017 to develop a European foundation of social rights. This base is based on three components. Firstly, the definition of common rules on working conditions and health at work, historically at the foundation of social Europe. Secondly, a labour market accessible to all and socially just. Thirdly, a guaranteed social net for all European workers, to better protect them from the hazards of working life. In the view of the ten Member States present, this floor must be based on an increased social dialogue. I have taken note of the official communication from Matignon and I have found that, among the ten Member States that have committed themselves, Belgium shines by its absence. However, all the other founding countries of the European Union were present. Madam Minister, it would therefore appear that Belgium was not represented. Yet, in my view, this is a fundamental issue, especially as Euroscepticism is growing. Do you confirm Belgium's absence? Could you explain why?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u38	Mrs Fonck, on 2 March, a conference was held in Paris on the European Pillar of Social Rights, at the invitation of the French Prime Minister, Mr Cazeneuve. The Ministers responsible for Employment or Social Affairs from thirteen different countries attended the meeting and ten signed the declaration. In addition, representatives of the European Commission, the European Parliament, Maria João Rodrigues, the European Trade Union Federation and the European Socialist Party were also present at the conference. As Belgian Minister for Social Affairs, I personally did not receive an invitation at this conference. Of course, since I wasn't invited, I didn't go! According to Myriam El Khomri, French Minister of Employment, who responded on Twitter, this was a meeting between social democrat ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u39	Minister, is that to say, if you were not invited, that another member of the government was invited? History may not bring us full clarity on this. Personally - but also on behalf of the CDH and, I hope, several colleagues - we should take the opportunity of a change of presidency in France to encourage, at the very least, the founding States of the European Union to move forward in this area. In this regard, I looked at the meeting with the German Chancellor. It is for the benefit of everyone, all citizens - both workers and businesses. In this way, we will put an end to social dumping, which continues to destroy jobs in our country and which is particularly harmful to all workers and citizens. I hope that, even if Belgium was not present on 2 March and although it did not sign this declaration as a European pillar - which I regret - it will mobilize to make progress on this issue. In my view, the three pillars that were defined at this meeting are essential. I find it unfortunate that Belgium was the only country among the founding States of the European Union to have been absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-16-54-commissie-ic663x.u40	I also hope that with the change of presidency in France, we can be invited - with you, Mrs Fonck. Since I'm polite, I'm not used to going to a meeting I wasn't invited to.
