ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic705x.u1	Question No 15525 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic705x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, since President Trump's election and inauguration, we have seen strong pressure on relations between the United States and Mexico. Trump's demand that Mexico should pay for building the famous wall on the American-Mexican border creates high tension between both countries. These tensions also seem to manifest themselves in trade relations. For example, the new US administration has announced that NAFTA needs to be renegotiated. Of course, we do not know what the outcome will be in the future. From Europe we must show solidarity with the Mexicans and that we stand up for free trade in the world. A new European trade agreement with Mexico, with significantly reduced tariffs and ambitious targets on labour, environment and human rights, can ensure this. In addition, an economic trade war between the United States and Mexico would also provide the EU with opportunities to increase its export market and ensure economic growth. Mexico is already an important trading partner of the EU and Belgium. Our country exported EUR 1.11 billion to Mexico in 2015 and imported EUR 2.96 billion. At EU level, exports amounted to EUR 33.6 billion and imports to EUR 19.68 billion. Within the EU, Belgium is the eighth most important exporter and the third most important importer of goods and services to and from Mexico. The EU is also Mexico's third largest trading partner, after the United States and China. Negotiations were already launched in May last year to renew the current EU-Mexico Global Agreement. I have the following questions for you, Mr Secretary of State. What position does Belgium take in the European discussions on the renewal of the Global Agreement with Mexico? What does our country specifically strive for? Do you believe that the mutual increase in import tariffs between the United States and Mexico may be an economic opportunity for the EU and for Belgium? If so, how can we best exploit and implement this opportunity? In the light of the current tensions between Mexico and the United States, will the Belgian Government call for a speeding up of negotiations for a new European trade agreement with Mexico, with a far-reaching reduction in import tariffs and the abolition of non-tariff barriers? Finally, do you think that a new trade agreement with ambitious labour, environmental and human rights objectives is possible with Mexico? Will that also have a positive impact in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic705x.u3	Mr Vandenput, negotiations on the renewal of the 1997 Global Agreement concluded with Mexico started in June 2016 and are fully supported by Belgium. That is what we have said in international political circles, and we are committed to doing so. We therefore support the importance of updating the three pillars of this agreement, in particular the political, cooperation and trade pillars. As far as the political pillar is concerned, it is important for Belgium to include the usual essential clauses in the agreement, in particular on human rights and the fight against weapons of mass destruction. Within the trade pillar, where four rounds of negotiations have already taken place, the Belgian side focuses on increasing Mexican market access for goods and services with clearer rules of origin, opening up Mexican markets for public procurement, including at the sub-federal level, and investment, and defining a more favourable market position for Belgian SMEs. In addition, in the context of the negotiations, we also call for the inclusion of a substantial chapter on sustainable development. During his election campaign, President Trump repeatedly indicated that he would renegotiate NAFTA and increase US import tariffs on Mexican products. The possible re-negotiation of NAFTA and the possible introduction of new import tariffs by the United States on Mexican products are hypotheses, but they did not arise until after the start of the trade negotiations and are therefore in fact independent of the strategic choices made by Mexico and the European Union to strengthen their bilateral relations, which is, of course, appropriate and desirable. For example, Mexican President Peña Nieto himself stated that the intensification of Mexican trade relations with the European Union is one of his priorities. It concerns not only trade relations, but also other relations. Secondly, given the current international context, Belgium is in agreement with the Mexican Government and the European Commission to speed up the pace of negotiations, with the aim of ending the negotiations before the end of the year. This does not prevent quality from being above speed when the negotiations are subsequently evaluated. We therefore urge, in the context of the European free trade negotiations, that they be systematically catalogued and inspired by the incorporation of a substantial chapter on sustainable development, developing the necessary provisions on labour, environmental and human rights. In this context, my colleague, Minister Reynders, in consultation with colleagues from Finland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Sweden, has recently taken an initiative to improve the implementation of these provisions. During the last round of negotiations, it was again apparent that there was sufficient interest on the Mexican side to further consolidate these draft provisions at the level of their impact. Moreover, Mexico now seems to be open to adding additional commissions to counter corruption. I think, of course, that this issue still has to be considered first and foremost from the specific framework of NAFTA, the North American Free Trade Agreement between the United States, Canada and Mexico. As with us, neighbouring countries are always the first trading partners. I have also seen that there is a big difference between an election campaign and the implementation of a trade policy. Then we need to find out where the most is produced in these three countries. At least that was true for Canada. That will also apply to Mexico now. Mexico is an important partner for our trade relations, both for the European Union and for Belgium individually. Of course, there is not just the export. We must also have fair access to the Mexican market, which is still very protectionist in some areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic705x.u4	Thank you for your comprehensive and clear answer, Mr Secretary of State. You said a few important things. You say that Trump's decision regarding NAFTA is independent of our relations with Mexico. That is a very good thing. It's Mexico's priority to close this by the end of the year. That is a timetable that must be pursued. It shouldn't take longer. I appreciate your time and your will to follow this. This must be completed by the end of the year so that we can come to a formalisation. As you say, Mexico is an important trading partner, which can only become more important to our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic705x.u5	Questions Nos 16343 and 16772 by Mr Crusnière are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic705x.u6	Madam President, Secretary of State, in an opinion paper in De Tijd of 7 June 2017, you say that you think that a possible CO2 tax on polluting American products is a bad idea. The arguments you are raising are of a practical rather than a principled nature. You say that it is difficult to determine what a polluting product is, that the measure can lead to more bureaucracy and that there is no European consensus on it. In addition, you point out that Belgium might cut its own meat with such a tax, because the United States is creating 130 000 jobs here and Belgium is cutting 160 000 jobs in the US. You fear that such a tax can trigger a negative spiral of retaliation. Mr Secretary of State, I have three questions. Firstly, how many of the 130 000 and 160 000 jobs you are talking about are in the sectors that could be affected by a CO2 tax? Secondly, you are right to point out that the US will continue to make a major effort in the area of climate change. Cities and states continue to firmly opt for an energy transition. Do you not think that these lower levels of American government would welcome a strong signal from countries like Belgium and from the European Union to the federal government? Thirdly, your party colleague Vincent Van Peteghem announced that he would table a resolution in the Chamber calling for such a CO2 tax. What is your attitude towards such an initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic705x.u7	Madam President, Secretary of State, following President Donald Trump's announcement that the United States would leave the Paris climate agreement, the idea of a tax on polluting American products was put forward in the media. Similar proposals were made in the past with regard to imports from China. However, studies show the limited impact of similar measures on global CO2 emissions. An opinion paper in De Tijd shows that you are not in favour of an import tax on polluting products, saying that we can end up in a negative spiral of charges. I have the following questions. Do you have any knowledge of other European countries which have introduced or wish to introduce an import charge on polluting products? Was this proposal discussed with your European colleagues responsible for international trade? Was a possible measure discussed with your American colleague? What is their position on this issue and the possible negative measures against goods produced by US companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic705x.u8	Madam Chair, I had prepared a bilingual response because one of our colleagues had tabled a question in French. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr De Vriendt and Mr Janssen, the United States is, as has already been said, a crucial partner for Belgium, especially in the economic and commercial sphere. They are our first market, outside the European Union and our neighbouring countries. American companies create about 130 000 jobs in Belgium. Belgian companies create around 160 000 jobs in the return traffic, on a daily basis, in the United States. It is therefore clear that we must pay great attention to that part of our transatlantic relationship. I was recently in Washington, where I met my fellow Secretary of State for Trade, Wilbur Ross. We have had a very constructive meeting. I have not only defended our bilateral trade relations, from a general point of view, but also a number of very concrete dossiers, such as steel and dredge. We have agreed that discussions will take place on these specific dossiers and that discussions have already taken place in order to reach a mutually beneficial agreement. I am convinced that it remains crucial for our country to maintain particularly close relations with Washington in the field of politics as well. This will also benefit our trade relationship. I have already publicly said that I regret President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement. Together with the European Union, we need American leadership in the fight against climate change. And so this American decision is bad news. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said several times in public, I am equally convinced that it is not a solution to resort to rhetoric. We must be very careful when imposing taxes, precisely because this could put the transatlantic trade relationship, which is not least important for our country, under severe pressure. In spite of all the rhetoric of the last few months, we in the United States have not yet seen too many measures of protectionism towards Europe or specific Member States. Nor is that the message I received from my good colleague Wilbur Ross. I therefore believe that we ourselves should not take any steps that could lead to a transatlantic trade war. An open economy like the Belgian economy can only suffer. It is also true that we must put the impact of President Trump's announcement, or the decision, in the right perspective. It is a bad thing for progress but on the ground in the private sector in the United States, too, at the level of a genuine federal state that constitutes the United States, so at the level of the individual states, many initiatives are still being taken in the logic of the energy transition. Already more people are employed in the US in the renewable energy sector, also linked to the traditional energy sectors, than in the coal sector. That won't change either. In fact, a lot of these individual states are far beyond some EU Member States when it comes to achieving their own objectives. I understand the concerns of several Members of this House, but I think we should support the positive forces in the US. I am not convinced that a CO2 tax will help in that sense. I believe that this tax is also extremely difficult to achieve in practice. For example, I do not know how to apply it to Google, Apple or Microsoft. This is difficult to achieve, taking into account the global supply chain that makes our economies very interdependent. I do not know whether other European countries which have already introduced such a tax will do so. I think the answer to that question is negative. However, at European level, we can look further at how we can achieve an optimal ETS or Emission Trading Scheme. This will promote the fight against climate change without giving our companies a competitive disadvantage. That's a sine qua non for me. I'm closing up. The fight against climate change is particularly important and the Paris agreement is a crucial link in this. President Trump's decision is regrettable, but I am in favour of a constructive commitment to the US and not a punitive attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic705x.u9	Thank you for your answer, Mr Secretary of State. I note that there are other opinions in your party as well. A parliamentary debate will be initiated at the initiative of a CD&V member. I would ask you, for example at European level, to consider the free market and an important condition for a functioning free market, which I believe is a level playing field. That is also true of China. There are trading blocks that can produce much cheaper and therefore have an advantage over the strong European Union, with our social system, environmental standards and so on. More and more, the question arises as to whether we should allow our borders to continue to open up to zero rates of taxation and to flood our markets. This is also at the expense of our own manufacturing industry. Moreover, I believe that there are more voices worldwide to correct that kind of globalisation and to really achieve a level playing field, and, if there is not, to achieve a correction with a point system, a certain pricing. The final objective can, of course, be free trade, but it must be fair free trade, on an equal basis. This certainly also applies to environmentally polluting products. I think that the environmental cost of production should be incorporated into the cost of a product. As long as certain countries withdraw from it, as unfortunately the United States, we must respond to it and not simply stick to the familiar image we have of free trade and, in fact, do not respond to that kind of policy initiatives. I would therefore like to encourage you to reconsider this matter and to discuss it further at European level with your fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic705x.u10	Madam President, I would like to comment on this. An ever-growing share, almost 85% of our gross domestic product, is generated by exports. No exports, and no exports to the United States, actually mean virtually no gross domestic product, for a country like Belgium, which has the most open economy in the world. I'm anti-protectionist. One cannot be a little protectionist for one and not for the other. I believe that good and fair trade relations with the United States, in fact with the NAFTA countries, are of particular importance to us. I also advocate an economic NATO. This means that we can link the largest consumer market in the world, namely the European Union, to the strongest economy in the world, namely the United States, enlarged with the two NAFTA countries Mexico and Canada. Then we actually have a market that contains almost 1.1 billion consumers and producers. This will enable us to set out rules that will benefit our economy and our users.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic705x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, what about our own industry? What about our own exports? There is no way we can compete against trading blocs that want to produce cheaper because they no longer want to respect a number of environmental standards and social standards that are respected within the European Union. Such a large market is a large consumer market, but the interests of our own industry and our own exports should also be paramount. I absolutely agree with you that we should not take measures purely and exclusively against the United States. I call for a global exercise, free market, level playing field, also in relation to China, for example. The Chinese flood our market, but our companies are obviously much more difficult to penetrate that Chinese market. That is a situation on which we must give fundamental thought.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic705x.u12	Absolutely, and with the more people we can do that in the future, the stronger we will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic705x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, this was about the United States and I will not comment on the other countries. The answer you gave to the question concerning the United States and the CO2 and the tax that we would possibly levy is my personal position as well as my party's position.
