ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u1	Minister, on April 19, I asked you at the same committee about your announcement to streamline the barracks of the Kingdom Civil Protection. This reform will lead to the abolition of the Ghlin barracks in Hainaut. The consequence is that the emergency zone of Picardy Wallonia will have to take on completely more interventions and in particular serious specific accidents for which Civil Protection once provided its aid, without guarantee at the moment to receive additional funding and to have the appropriate specific equipment. Minister, Hainaut is the Walloon province with the largest number of SEVESO sites. As a front-line service, the rescue area of Picardy Wallonia will have to train and equip itself with equipment to manage specific accidents. No indication has been raised to date of a transfer of the federal budget to the relief areas so that they can equip themselves with equipment to carry out the tasks assigned to them by the Emergency Preparedness Department. I would like to point out that without this federal budget, municipalities may have to pay more for the relief areas, with consequences for the citizens. Will the equipment currently available in the closed Civil Protection barracks be allocated to the emergency areas? If so, will the area of Picardy Wallonia benefit from equipment for the Hainaut? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u2	Mr Delannois, the transfer of certain materials is planned for certain areas as they will have to carry out certain federal tasks in the future. This is the Hainaut-centre area, specifically for international fire-fighting obligations in SHAPE. For Area West-Vlaanderen 1, equipment to treat marine pollution in the North Sea will be made available by the Health-Environment FPS. For the other areas, the primary front-line role in the civil security chain does not change given the reform of the fire services already launched by the previous government, as well as the distribution of tasks planned since the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014. The fact that Civil Protection will no longer act as a back-up to certain geographically close areas for its front-line missions is likely to release equipment that is not required for specialized missions. When the inventory is done, we will see how to transfer it to the areas and to which of them. To be very clear, we are currently putting order in the division of labour. There are no additional tasks to the relief areas, but it is clear that in the past, Civil Protection had been carrying out tasks assigned to the relief areas. So we're putting things right. After this new division of labour, equipment within the Civil Protection Agencies will no longer be useful and can be transferred to the relief areas. But the inventory, the negotiations with the relief zones still have to be done. It will take two years to complete the transfer of tasks and equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u3	Minister, you answered my question before I asked you. I was going to ask you if you had a timing to find out where that equipment could go. I share your view that the front line role does not change. However, in the event of a real accident – which requires the intervention of the Civil Protection – Ghlin's absence by our side will increase the waiting time. This will directly affect the rescue areas of Picardy Wallonia. In any case, I have taken note of your intention to prepare an inventory, so that we will know more in two years' time. Finally, if specific material was available, please do not forget the area of Picardy Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u4	Mr President, Minister, there is actually one question. I suspect that something has gone wrong administratively as a result of an actualization. I will therefore, if you agree, put the last and therefore most topical question. Mr Minister, ANPR cameras on the premises are not only useful to look up the plates of cars that pass by. The camera dynamometers may also be used for colour recognition of trucks, provided that additional software is used. This means that in addition to search on license plate, search by color or brand can also be done. However, these recognition systems have a very large margin of error. White isn't always white. That may change in the morning or evening. A camera cannot record shades of color as the human eye can. The same applies to vehicle recognition and brand recognition. However, many of these data are available and known by the government. The DIV database contains data on each vehicle registered in Belgium. It concerns data such as the brand, colour and motorization in combination with the assigned number plate. It is already possible to do searches in the DIV database on the basis of ANPR camera identifiers. However, most of these searches have to be done manually by the operator in the police area, who will also run the ANPR queries. I will not dwell on the example. However, I am convinced that we can gain efficiency in any police area if the databases are automatically linked. However, there are two important conditions for this. On the one hand, the DIV database must be accurate and up-to-date, which is not always the case. On the other hand, a plug-in should also be installed in that database so that the ANPR camera network software can directly perform searches in the DIV database. This makes it possible, for example, to control tonnage limits easily and without expensive sensors for truck lice. In recent years many police zones have invested heavily in the development of an ANPR camera network. You'll do the same to the federal government. It therefore seems desirable to maximise the possibilities offered by such a network. I have two questions about this. Firstly, do you see possibilities to optimize the functionality of ANPR camera networks of local police zones? Is an automatic link to the authentic database of the DIV an option you can consider? Secondly, are there any technical or legal obstacles to such a link? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u5	Mr President, I note that even in a brand new building like this, the Forum building of the Chamber of Representatives, modern technology has not yet fully penetrated, at least is not stable, and I regret that, certainly before having to answer a question about technology. With your question, Mr Vandenput, you clearly indicate what possibilities there are in terms of technology, but, as you rightly point out, these systems are not infallible, just like those of the Chamber. Recognition systems indeed show error margins, but also the DIV database is certainly not complete. For example, in about one in three cases the colour of the vehicle is unknown. The colour of a vehicle may also change. The color that is included in the DIV database is the color that the AudiTT has when leaving the factory. Some cars get sprayed. For the ANPR project, the specifications provide for a link with the DIV to automate certain operations so that they can be operated more efficiently. However, it must not be assumed that the police simply have the free hand to carry out all conceivable checks on their own. The police must always work within a legal framework that meets the requirements of proportionality, taking into account finality and privacy regulations. At the moment, the government is working on a new legal framework with regard to the use of cameras. This framework is still under development and will take into account privacy rules and the European general data privacy regulation, the new European Data Protection Directive. I can tell you that camera legislation passed by the government for a first reading. A number of new elements have then emerged, including the new European directive. The text is currently being adapted to these new elements. In addition, the use of the DIV database is also bound by well-defined rules of the game. These are monitored by the Federal Government Sectoral Committee. In any event, the national ANPR network will be linked to the DIV database, which is an added value compared to the local camera networks. Currently, a link is provided with the DIV database for the so-called police hits. Those are vehicles that have already been logged into the police database. These police hits result from camera surveillance. In this way, the police can obtain additional information from the DIV database.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u6	Minister, you may have just mentioned a problem with the Wi-Fi or mobile connection. I do not have reception here at times either. Today one can have a cart riding on Mars, but this problem cannot be solved. Thank you for your clear answer. I am glad to hear that the government is working on the matter, that there is a link in the framework contract and that the police will have more possibilities. I agree with you that people should pay attention to privacy. If we are going to use the DIV database, it must be 100% accurate, so that we do not have to base ourselves on half the information. Thank you for the work that is being done on this issue. Hopefully, the police will soon have access to this link so that it can work more efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hufkens' 18966 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u8	Minister, the December 2006 letter states that police investigations in civil matters are not a central task of the police. In such an investigation, the police officer goes on the scene to see what the house looks like. He also checks whether these people are known by the police and whether they have a criminal record. In certain regions the police are used very often for this purpose, for reasons of opportunity. It is decided to instruct the police because they can play on the ball less than the courts, who often have to wait. The orders come from the courts, the former juvenile courts, now the family courts, which in civil matters, among other things, have to arrange the children's stay with both parents. I've been asking you for numbers. Last month I received the answer that 2 986 investigations were carried out in 2015. The year before that was a hundred less. These figures are similar to the past, when the figure was around 3 000 each year. In an earlier question I learned that the transfer letter is evaluated biannually by the FPS Home Affairs, in collaboration with the Federal Police Council. Can you tell me, Minister, where the police are mainly used for such investigations? Has the aspect of the police investigation in civil matters been addressed in the evaluation of the letter in recent years? If so, what were the conclusions? Was this aspect addressed in the key tasks debate? Are you considering initiatives in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u9	At central level, there is no information on which police areas devote police capacity to police investigations in civil matters. As the circular of 1 December 2006 clearly describes what is expected of the police in civil matters, this was outside the scope of the last core tasks exercise and the approved core tasks plan of 2015. The law on the police officer also explicitly states which administrative task falls within the remit of the police. It belongs to the competence of local authorities and/or other bodies to implement it. I am not in favour of temporarily considering exceptions to powers that lie elsewhere, for reasons of opportunity or efficiency, such as waiting times. I don't think that's appropriate. Given the increased demand for police capacity, these will be marginal in number and workload. As regards the evaluation of the circular, it is clear that this exercise was mainly embedded in the broader core tasks debate both recently and in the past. Only in 2008 were individual tasks assessed to what extent the directives were implemented by the police zones. However, the aspect of morality research was never examined as such, as it was not included in the letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament 19120 by Mrs Dierick will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u11	Mrs. Jadin apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u12	Minister, we both share the appreciation and conviction of the usefulness of the LIVCs. So I don't have to describe what they serve and what they can do. I come to very specific questions. How many LIVC debt securities have been established in the meantime? Can you indicate that this is a Community perspective per region? What's the status of the partnerships? I can imagine that a number of municipalities working together within a particular police zone might be too small to set up a LIVC and perhaps would rather do so within the police zone. Is there sufficient legal basis in the letter you issued to do so at that level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u13	Mr Terwingen, on 1 May 2017, 284 municipalities have a LIVC. One hundred and seventy municipalities do not have a LIVC, but there may be a foundation in those municipalities. We have not yet received any information from 135 municipalities. As far as regional breakdown is concerned, I will look at your Community approach. It concerns 284 LIVCs for Belgium. For Flanders there are 213 out of a total of over 300; for Wallonia there are 56 and for the Brussels Region there are 15 out of a total of 19. This is not a bad score for both the Brussels Region and Flanders. The figures were generated by bringing together different sources. For example, in June 2016, a survey of the creation of LIVC debt securities was sent out from Home Affairs to all mayors in Belgium. In addition, we work with various partner organisations such as the OCAD and the provinces to bring together all the information about the creation of LIVC. In April 2017, all DirCos were also written with the same question. The updating of the LIVC data is continuously under way. The circular Foreign Terrorist Fighters, which Mr Geens and I sent around on 21 August 2015, mentions for the first time the creation of those LIVC fighters as part of the exchange of information, when we are talking about radicalisation. At present, there is no obligation to organise LIVC debt securities at municipal level. We note, together with you, that many municipalities have established a LIVC. It is still a little early to start an evaluation of the LIVCs in Belgium, but we can already say that there are enough examples in the facts to show that they are working in a good way. Despite the absence of the obligation to set up such cells, we from the FPS Interior still answer the questions of cities and municipalities that it is desirable to establish a LIVC. In the beginning, the creation of a LIVC was mainly intended for municipalities with FTF residents on their territory. Of course, that has evolved today, because terrorism is evolving. In fact, we would like to see all the municipalities, either municipal or inter-municipal, set up something like this. On the basis of the information we have obtained, we find that many municipalities join forces in a zonal or supralocal internal security cell. The motivation to move to a supralocal LIVC, which often coincides with the territory of a police zone, is different. The main motivation for a municipality to operate supralocally is the low number of FTF members or other worrying situations of radicalisation within the municipality. It is often also more efficient for the municipality to have such consultations at supralocal level, for practical reasons and to limit the number of meetings. The circular Foreign Terrorist Fighters does not express itself on the possibility of setting up a LIVC upper classroom, but in the KBBEs on the one-off impulse given to fifteen cities in the context of the fight against radicalisation, this is pointed out. One of the conditions of that impulse was to develop local or upper local best practices in the context of LIVC's. Rather than imposing an obligation on each municipality to set up a LIVC separately, I think it would be more useful to work in a modular way and to determine that each municipality must have or be part of a LIVC, depending on the severity of the phenomenon facing the municipality. I would, however, like to stress that the use of the word "zonal' in relation to the LIVCs should not lead to confusion and should not give the impression that the LIVC is a police instrument, but rather a platform set up by the administrative authorities with the presence of local police. On the basis of the figures, I can give you the distinction between supralocal and zonal LIVCs. At Belgian level there are 156 municipal and 128 supralocal LIVCs, according to police zone; in Flanders there are 105 municipal and 108 supralocal LIVCs; in Wallonia there are 36 municipal and 20 supralocal LIVCs; in Brussels all 15 LIVCs are municipal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u14	Minister, my questions have been answered in full and in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u15	Questions put by Mr Pivin Nos 19293, 19295, 19298 and 19299 were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin's 19194 reply on cybercrime was received by the Prime Minister at a forthcoming meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u16	Mr President, Minister, West Flemish Governor Carl Decaluwé complains about a lack of control in the Schengen ports of Ostend, Zeebrugge, Nieuwpoort and Blankenberge. In practice, they would not be controlled as they should, because the Maritime Police are heavily understaffed and have insufficient resources. However, our Belgian ports are very vulnerable, not only in the context of human trafficking. Belgium is still known as a turntable for drug criminality. For example, in April, police intercepted more than half a ton of cocaine at a cargo in the port of Antwerp. That's certainly not a single story. Recently, drugs also washed up through our beaches. Governor Carl Decaluwé requests additional boats and personnel for the Shipping Police. A call for tenders related to the material would already be in progress. I would therefore like to have an answer to the following questions. What is the state of play in the implementation of the National Security Plan? The National Security Plan sets out ten security phenomena to which the police and all other relevant authorities must pay particular attention. Tackling drug imports and exports, trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings are two of those security phenomena. What tender was foreseen for the purchase of that material for the Shipping Police? What other options are there for the deployment of additional staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u17	Mr President, Mr Top, the National Security Plan is currently in progress. A first follow-up report was presented to the Federal Police Council on Tuesday 20 June. For the implementation of the National Security Plan, programme managers and action managers were designated for the ten security phenomena in order to address the various phenomena in an integral and integrated way throughout the Belgian territory. For the two phenomena you mentioned, these are two representatives from the judicial column. All the partners in the approach to the different themes have been identified. It goes without saying that the Maritime Police are part of this, in addition to services such as customs, the Social Inspectorate, the transport sector and so on. In the fight against drugs, a lot has already been provided for by the Shipping Police. For example, the Maritime Police patrols the North Sea on a permanent basis. The TST service, the technical support team of the Maritime Police, has drug and explosive detection devices, mobile trace and MMTD, devices for videscopy, mirrors, thermal cameras and night vision goggles. Both the services of the Shipping Police and other services of the Federal Police and the local police regularly call upon the TST Service. In the near future, this service will also use a cargoscanner. The Maritime Information Crossing Point, which is a partnership within the framework of the Coast Guard between the Navy, Customs and Shipping Police, also plays an important role in the fight against drugs. Not only is information exchanged in the MIK between the services operating in the North Sea. The MIK will also follow targets. The MIK also has access to various databases of other public services and is in contact with foreign MIK operators. The MIK is also responsible for investigating drift and search patterns in the North Sea, which is important in the search for drugs. The MIK is manned 24 hours at 24 hours and seven days at seven. In order to increase the sense of security within the marinas and to ensure social cohesion, a neighborhood information network Hunting Ports Belgian Coast was established. In this BIN, administrative and police partners work together with representatives of the fifteen yacht clubs from Blankenberge, Bruges, Nieuwpoort and Ostend. A study has recently been carried out in the context of increasing cooperation between the MIK and the Maritime Rescue and Coordination Centre. In the context of that study, it is proposed, among other things, that the MIK should have access to the camera dynamometers available to the MRC. The study is currently being examined by my services. The camera images in question can be used in the fight against drug problems. In the fight against trafficking in human beings, it is mainly the port of Zeebrugge which is faced with the problems of the transmigrants who are trying to reach Britain through that port. In the fight against transmigration, the Maritime Police are also making considerable efforts. For example, Zeebrugge's Maritime Police held a total of 3 195 transmigrants administratively in 2016. The United Kingdom Border Force (UKBF) supports the Maritime Police almost daily in the search for transmigrants in the port of Zeebrugge. The Department of Dog Support of the Federal Police also supports this. With its special equipment, the TST participates daily in the detection of transmigrants in the port of Zeebrugge. As already stated, the TST will soon also have a specific cargoscanner that can also detect transmigrants. In reply to your second question, I would like to inform you that the Maritime Police currently has two patrol vehicles, four patrol vehicles for inland waterways, three rigidly holled inflatable boats or RHIBs for inland waterways, one RHIB for the North Sea and two RHIBs of small dimensions. Three new RHIBs were ordered to replace the old ones. The deliveries are planned for the coming months. On 18 May 2017, the Council of Ministers agreed to launch a public contract for a multi-annual framework agreement on supplies for the purchase and maintenance of patrol vehicles for the benefit of the Maritime Police. A minimum of three patrol vehicles are provided to modernise and supplement the fleet of the Shipping Police. The first deliveries are not expected before mid 2019. Thirdly, measures have been taken in recent years in the field of staff to reduce the existing deficit. For example, in 2016 25 positions were declared vacant for the Maritime Police Coast. All these functions have been filled since October 2016. Overall, the SPN Coast, the shipping police, has a lower deficit compared to other services. In Antwerp, this is 25%, in Ghent 20%, in the south of the country 31%, on the coast 12%. With a view to the 2017 mobility cycle, the SPN Coast will continue to invest. Five places were declared vacant. For each category there are sufficient staff who postulated for the vacant posts to select suitable candidates. There is also an agreement to recruit 23 additional staff from the Maritime Police in the future, in the context of the adaptation of Article 8.2 of the SBC on the extension of control to European nationals. Of these 23 people, 14 are intended for the SPN Coast.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed explanation. I don't have much to add to that. I've taken a lot of notes. I will also read the report. I do have a few brief comments, or questions in fact. You said just now in the introduction to your reply that on Tuesday 20 June a first report was made to the National Security Council on the implementation of the National Security Plan. Firstly, can we have that report? You have answered my specific questions about two phenomena. Is there any possibility of discussing them in committee? Secondly, you replied about the cooperation of the BIN with the yacht clubs from the various marinas. You said the study of the camera footage is still ongoing. Do you have any idea when it will be transferred so that action can be taken? Thirdly and finally, I am pleased that you have given an answer on filling out the vacant places and that you have made the comparison with other places where fewer staff are present in relation to the SPN Coast. I would ask you to ensure that as many vacant places as possible are filled in at these different places, especially on the coast, and quickly, because this is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u19	Two additional questions were asked. I can tell you that the National Security Plan was put forward in this committee. It therefore seems logical to me that mid-term evaluations of this plan should take place here too. I have no objection to that. Your second question escapes me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u20	That question was about the study of the camera footage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u21	This study will be completed by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lambrecht's 19320 is withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delannois' 19410 will be dealt with in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 19440 is converted into a written question, and that also applies to questions Nos 19450, 1945, 1945 and 19471 by Mr Flahaux. Debates of the European Parliament 19480 by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u24	According to a May 17 article, 1,755 identity cards and forged passports were discovered last year in Belgium, despite all the security measures. In fact, more than 1,200 false papers were discovered during checks on Belgian territory. According to the Federal Police: "The false identity cards we intercept are mostly Belgian and false passports are mostly foreign. We find as many 100% false documents as real counterfeit cards and passports. We also find authentic and fraudulently used documents, for example, because of the resemblance between the holder and the malfrat." In 2016, during border checks at airports, ports and stations, 735 false documents were intercepted, most of them at Zaventem airport. Nevertheless, the number of documents intercepted has decreased while it has remained stable for checks carried out on Belgian territory. Thus, according to the Federal Police: "It must be said that the quality of false papers increases because it is now easier to obtain reproduction devices." An expert, such as the border police officer, will more easily detect fake documents. But not everyone is an expert. If quality improves, it will be more difficult to discover them. And we see an increase in the number of real identity cards obtained as a result of fraudulent statements or the holder of which is a person who resembles the malfrat. What concrete measures are being taken or planned to deal with attempts to falsify Belgian documents? What are your budgets and resources? Is there an awareness-raising campaign to inform citizens of the risks associated with falsification of documents? If not, are you considering launching one? Could you disaggregate, from 2014 to the present, the number of reports issued by your police services on forged identity papers? Could you provide the breakdown according to the Regions? How many people have been prosecuted?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u25	Mr Kir, I have decided to act in a more proactive way, by carrying out various concrete actions aimed at the municipalities, which are the source of the identity chain, and which therefore occupy a key position in the detection of identity fraud. By ministerial circular of 27 May 2016, co-signed by my colleagues the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, a coordinated approach to the prevention of identity fraud at federal and local level has been developed and transmitted to municipalities, local police and Belgian consular posts abroad. This circular serves as a guideline for the Single Point of Contact (SPOC Communal), the reference official for the fight against identity fraud. These are designated in each municipality, in cases where fraud is suspected concerning an electronic identity card of a Belgian, a Kids-ID, a Belgian residence permit for a foreigner, a passport, a travel document or a civil status document. Several concrete improvements allowing for better detection of false documents for communal agents and/or consular officers are included. Secondly, my services will ensure that certain objectives of the comprehensive security framework note and the National Security Plan 2016-2019 are pursued and achieved, concerning the theme of identity determination and identity usurpation and the thirteen measures described therein. Various objectives will be pursued, including improving and securing, taking into account the physical security of identity and travel documents as well as the procedures for issuing them, raising awareness among different target audiences and improving the flow of operational information between the actors involved in combating identity fraud. A summary report for 2016 will be prepared as part of the monitoring of the 2016-2019 comprehensive security framework note by the SPF Justice. With regard to your second question, all the designated municipal SPOCs, whose role is described in the aforementioned ministerial circular, were invited to the conference "Fraude à l'identité" held on 19 and 20 September 2016 at the Palais d'Egmont in Brussels, during which the circular could be explained and evaluated. During these information sessions, they attended presentations by federal partners of the Identity Fraud Task Force, which brings together the departments of the Interior, Foreign Affairs and the Federal Police. The Federal Police described the evolution of identity fraud through various practical examples and provided some advice to detect this form of fraud. The Interior and Foreign Affairs commented in detail on the May 2016 circular, which describes the coordinated approach to identity fraud at the local and federal levels. The SPOCs present had the opportunity to ask their questions. With some 700 participants spread over the two days, the organization of this information session was a real success. By circular of 30 September 2016, the municipalities were also invited to participate in provincial training courses on combating identity fraud. These small-group interactive provincial training sessions were held from September 2016 to March 2017. Various practical cases of frequent identity fraud have been examined in detail. These trainings have met with some success and interest. Thirty-six three-hour sessions were delivered across the country by four training bodies at fifteen training sites. An evaluation of the Ministerial Circular and related training programme will be carried out by the Federal Task Force by the end of 2017. In the case of police services, there is a category of specialists and a category of non-specialists. Specialists receive specific training, either in Belgium or abroad, given by peers. As far as non-specialists are concerned, they have the opportunity to attend general training courses or even training sessions in the field. This is done through the budget and the general means of training. My services will continue to develop and promote the document validity control system (the check-doc) with a view to increasing its use by public authorities and the private sector. The aim is to prevent identity fraud in any transaction in which an identity document is used by the parties to establish identity and, consequently, to protect the citizen. The Federal Task Force will begin a reflection on a public awareness campaign on the risks associated with falsification of identity and travel documents and good reflexes to avoid them as much as possible. As regards the figures, for the years 2014 to 2016, for the Brussels-Capital Region, it is 536, 1,217 and 389. For the Flemish Region, 2 325, 2 559 and 2550. For the Walloon Region, it is 402, 730 and 528.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u26	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive response both to the measures taken in the circular and to all the training provided to municipal officials and police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u27	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, an article in the DH.be on June 13 mentioned the fact that the number of offences found by the federal and local police for drug-influenced driving had increased by 16% in 2016 compared to the previous year, according to statistics on the circulation of the federal police. Overall, the number of offences increased by 2.37% compared to 2015. Local police and the federal police registered more than 4.7 million offences in 2016, an increase of 2.37% over 2015. Most accidents are due to three types of behaviour: speed, driving under influence, and seat belt failure. Excessive speed is the majority of the offences (69.26% of the total). The Federal Police, however, welcome the fact that "very, if not extremely high, speeding shows a downward trend". On the other hand, driving under influence showed the largest increase in 2016, including offences for driving under the influence of drugs, which increased by 16% (6,812). What is your analysis of these federal police statistics? What conclusions do you draw? What specific measures have been taken in recent years to combat driving under influence? What were the planned budgets? Could you disaggregate from 2014 to today the number of reports on drug-influenced driving? If possible, please specify the distribution by age, sex and region. On an annual basis, how many road accidents caused by driving under the influence of drugs? How many of these accidents have resulted in injuries and deaths? Thank you for providing me with an age, gender and region breakdown for the period 2014 to the present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u28	Mr Kir, as demonstrated by the increase in findings, alcohol and drug driving remains a priority theme in the National Security Plan. It is also a priority theme in zonal security plans. During the annual BOB campaigns, the police pay particular attention to driving under the influence of drugs. At each roadside inspection, drivers are quickly detected on the basis of external signs of drug use. If there are clues, the mandatory checklist is first reviewed. It is only from at least three clearly positive signs that the salivary test is carried out. It gives only one indication for a particular product. If the test is positive, a blood sample is taken. Initiatives have also been taken in my colleague's office, Mr Geens, such as the strengthening of measures in case of recidivism, cross-recidivism (for alcohol and drugs) can be severely punished, and an additional budget to increase the number of salivary tests from 18,000 to 36,000 per year. I would remind you that the figures you are asking for must, in principle, be the subject of written questions. However, they have been harvested and annexed. I'll give them to you. This is an overview of the number of findings per year, broken down by age, sex and region. The figures for 2017 are not yet available. This is an overview of the number of accidents with the aggravating circumstance of drug use. The figures for age and sex of course cover all those involved in the accident where the drug was used as an aggravating circumstance. For 2017, figures run until May 31. There are statistics by age, sex and region, but I'm not going to read them all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers I have a small additional question. Do you feel that this increase is due to a multiplication of facts or a strengthening of controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u30	It is clear that the increase in the number of checks and their type leads to an increase in the figures. I think that is the reason, rather than a real increase in driving under the influence of drugs. Checks are tighter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u31	Perfect. I think it's a priority, and so much the better.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u32	Mr President, Minister, my question is not about the heat wave, but about the current high temperature. By the time I asked the question, on May 29, the thermometer exceeded 30°C, which will still be the case today and tomorrow. With such temperatures, workers and employees can be prevented from performing their duties under acceptable conditions. In the event of too high a temperature, the Belgian law obliges the employer to take certain measures designed to reduce the disadvantages associated with excess heat in the workplace. In this regard, I asked the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, Mr. Steven Vandeput, who replied: "Special provisions for situations and opportunities already exist within the various FPSs. It is their responsibility to take action taking into account the workload." It is true that the police are not the administration as it is in other ministries. Minister, what steps are being taken within your administration to implement the statutory obligations? What initiatives are being taken to reduce the disadvantages of heat by ensuring that federal public servants occupy adequately ventilated premises, hydrate regularly and take breaks to cool down? Do you consider it appropriate to install water fountains in your various departments and/or administrations to allow federal employees to drink free of charge? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u33	Mr President, Mr Kir, most of the buildings in Brussels in which my services are housed are fully or partially equipped with air conditioning. As a result, these buildings pose few problems in terms of heat. Given the temperatures of recent days, HVAC maintenance company intervention is required from time to time to maintain cooling. That was the case this morning, in my office! For civil protection operational units, there is an explanatory memorandum "Thermal ambiance" providing for specific preventive measures from certain temperatures such as, for example, the authorisation of derogation from the dress protocol for the unit's operational staff from 28°C. The memorandum was recently reminded to the Heads of Unit of all Civil Protection operational units. In the closed centres of the Office des Étrangers, additional ventilation of the premises is provided and fans are installed. Water is also provided free of charge to staff. In addition, service employees accommodated in buildings partially equipped with air conditioning are offered the possibility of temporarily settling in the parts of the buildings (empty offices, meeting rooms, etc.). equipped with air conditioning. In addition, the logistics services also make fans available to staff. In most of the interior FPS buildings, water fountains are installed. Staff and visitors can refresh free of charge. The procurement of fresh beverages is one of the preventive measures included in the Memorandum of Service "Thermal Ambience" for the operational units of the Civil Protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u35	Minister, according to an article in La Libre Belgique, your telecoms counterpart, Alexander De Croo, and you, in Waterloo, launched an awareness campaign for the general public, in BE-Alert, a system allowing authorities to quickly spread a message to the public in the event of an emergency. In concrete terms, BE-Alert makes it possible to alert the population through new channels. A mayor, a governor or the Minister of the Interior can now decide to warn citizens of a danger by voice call, SMS or e-mail. I quote: "The goal really is to alert the population as quickly and effectively as possible. Security has become a really important issue; everyone is now convinced of it. In this context, by enabling the right target groups to be reached as soon as possible and by allowing them to know what to do as quickly as possible, BE-Alert is a powerful tool that meets the needs of the field and the latest technological advances." As a reminder, BE-Alert was born in 2014, as a pilot project of the Federal Crisis Centre. It was tested for two years by 33 municipalities before being generalized. At present, some 200 towns and villages have joined the system and signed a convention which has also given them access, since 13 June, to the Alert-SMS platform, a technology to send an alert text message to citizens on the basis of their location. The Alert-SMS allows you to locate the SIM cards of all people within a defined radius around the site of an accident and send them a text message, even if they are not registered with BE-Alert. Minister, in concrete terms, how does this system work? How many people have been registered since its official launch to date? What are you doing at this stage? Of course, we are still at the experimental stage. Have any faults been identified? What improvements, if any, would you like to make? What follow-up will be given to this campaign to continue to raise public awareness?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u36	Mr Kir, developed by the Crisis Centre, the BE-Alert platform is accessible to all the Belgian authorities in charge of alerting and informing the population in the event of an emergency, namely the mayors, provincial governors and myself as Minister of the Interior and Security. It is a web-based and multi-channel communication platform. Web-basedmeans that it is neither a machine nor a software, but a very secure website to which the authorities who wish to join it have access in order to alert and inform their people in the event of an emergency. Multi-channels means that it is possible to send an alert simultaneously by voice message, text message, e-mail or fax to any person who previously registered on BE-Alert. Another communication channel, new in Europe, is Alert-SMS technology, which allows you to send a text message on all mobile phones in a specified minimum area, whether registered on BE-Alert or not. For the BE-Alert platform, it is necessary to register. For Alert-SMS, the antenna is used in an area and all SIM cards linked to this antenna receive the SMS immediately. This complementary technology can be used when it is urgent to warn the population, including tourists and people passing through the area. It was developed in collaboration with the three largest Belgian mobile telephone operators. To be precise, we need to talk about the BE-Alert platform and, within it, the Alert-SMS technology. We currently have more than 110,000 people registered on this platform, of whom 42,639 have been registered since the launch on 13 June. Prior to the launch, there were pilot municipalities in which residents could register. We are continuing our efforts, including through the public information and awareness campaign planned for this summer. We will be present at every major event and festival. The pilot project, which took place from 2013 to 2015, drew lessons that were useful in drafting the terms of reference for the development of the current platform. Key elements were highlighted, such as the need for user interface ergonomics, the possibility of using a help-desk for any technical issue, but also an alert-desk to help activate an alert. The possibility of activating an alert via different channels at the same time was also considered essential for such a tool. In addition, we noted the importance of user coaching and support for the understanding of the interface. This is in line with the mission of the Crisis Centre, which includes supporting local authorities. As far as citizens are concerned, during the pilot project, we paid a great deal of attention to respect for the right to privacy, by consulting twice with the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. To date, no deficiencies have been identified. This point is the subject of constant attention by technicians and developers to deal with any possible anomaly. In the future, the platform is expected to be improved by integrating the siren network as an additional channel, as well as by enabling interaction with ICMS (Incident & Crisis Management System), the crisis management platform also developed by the Crisis Centre and made available to local authorities since the beginning of 2017. In addition, since June 2016, the Crisis Centre has launched an extensive awareness campaign to inform the public about risks and crises. This large-scale awareness is implemented for a period of three years under the Info-Risk.be dome to carry out various actions at national and local level, with actions targeted at the risks related to the Seveso and nuclear sites, but also on the public alert system, BE-Alert. Communication actions under BE-Alert will be actively carried out until September 2017. However, by 2019, different themes will be the subject of specific actions with citizens: for example nuclear risk, community awareness or information on specific behaviours to be adopted for its safety, for which the concept of alert will have a special place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u37	Minister, I'll go back to text alerts. You said the Crisis Centre can actually inform people, even if they are not registered in the network. This is obviously something exceptional, since you have spoken of a first in Europe. What perimeter can we do? Then, during the attack last night, did this system work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u38	As far as your first question is concerned, the authority in charge decides. The mayor, the governor or myself, we decide to define a perimeter. The antennas on this perimeter are, at that time, activated. It's pretty easy to do. Yesterday, the Crisis Centre did not activate BE-Alert because it was a very specific case for which, after a few minutes, the situation was under control.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u39	Mr President, according to the recently published 2016 report of the SPF Home Affairs, the number of false alerts and calls wrongly directed to 112 has decreased by 2.4% last year, while the number of emergency calls has increased by 4%. Last year, 112 recorded 2.7 million calls, of which 1.1 million were real emergency calls. According to the Director-General of DG Civil Security, Jérôme Glorie, the decrease in the number of inappropriate calls is, among other things, due to better use of smartphones. For information purposes, 112 would also be accessible via an application that should allow immediate identification of the origin of the call. My questions are as follows. What is the status of the 112 application? When will it be accessible to all citizens? What are the costs associated with operational and investment costs? Which operating systems will be able to use it? What will be the procedure for using the app on a smartphone?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u40	Mr Kir, application 112 will be launched this week, next Friday to be very specific. For your information, the app will be available tomorrow, Thursday, but officially it will be launched Friday. It will then be available to all citizens. All smartphone owners on IOS, Iphone or Android can download the app via Apple store or Google store. When downloading, users may transmit additional information that may be useful for rescue services, such as contact persons, personal medical information. Once the application has been downloaded, the user can call through clear icons, and the choice is offered between firefighters, ambulances, police and emergency call centres. Pre-recorded information and location information will then be transmitted. By the location of the smartphone, the rescue service knows immediately the location of the person in question. The emergency call centre operator can directly launch the chat function when the caller has indicated that he or she is deaf. This function can of course also be activated when it turns out that the phone call is impossible, for example if there are too many background noises, or if you are in a situation of hostage-taking. The development cost of application 112 amounts to a rounded amount of EUR 850 000. Attention, this cost includes not only the pure development cost, but also the cost that allows the application to operate with the Intergraph and CityGuide dispatch platforms, used by the 112, 100 and 101 emergency call centres. It also includes the start-up cost to make this application scalable, already providing for a possible extension for the sending of photos and videos.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u41	Minister, in early 2016, three Walloon citizens spontaneously questioned the Home SPF about the determination of electoral districts for the election of the Walloon Parliament following Constitutional Court decision 169/2015 of 26 November 2015. Attentive, as it should be, to any citizen's request, the SPF issued on 23 December a very detailed response which recalls that if a change in the cantonal structure is necessary, this requires a federal legislative amendment which must be promulgated more than a year before the election deadline. My first question is whether you have been formally or informally contacted by one or the other Walloon political leader on this subject. If so, what were the terms of your exchange, both in demand from them and in response from you? My second question is whether you are available to make progress in this direction if a request is to be sent to you. My third question concerns the timetable. At what point do you feel you should be formally seized of an application, given what has been recalled by the Home SPF and given the upcoming twofold deadline, European but also provincial (possibly also affected by a redistribution of the cantons)? My last question concerns the content. Are you going to relay the request as it stands, as long as it holds the road legally or are you going to intervene on the content of the redistribution that will eventually be proposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u42	Mr President, Mr Nollet, it is with great pleasure that I will answer a non-nuclear question on your part! The Walloon Parliament, although competent to determine the electoral districts affecting it, does not, however, have the power to change the composition of the electoral cantons or their capitals determined by a table annexed to the Electoral Code. Therefore, if the modification of the electoral districts for the election of the Walloon Parliament has an impact on the cantonal distribution, the annex to the Electoral Code will have to be amended accordingly in order to allow the proper organization of the elections. In this regard, the federal government is fully committed to a collaborative approach. The scheme of work is thus as follows: at Walloon level, the adoption of a special decree determining the electoral districts, the capitals of the latter and the cantonal subdivision of the composition of these cantons. This special decree will repeal article 5, paragraph 1, of the ordinary law of 17 July 1993 and its annex. At the federal level, it is a legislative amendment of the cantonal structure (composition and capital) referred to in the table annexed to the Electoral Code with a view to adopting the ideal cantonal scheme agreed at the Walloon level. This cantonal scheme will also be used for federal and European elections for the purpose of good organisation of the vote. I should like to mention another important point: the process of merging municipalities in the Flemish Region will also require a change in the electoral cantons. The amendment of the annex to the Electoral Code of the Walloon and Flemish Regions will take place at the same time. From a temporal point of view, having regard to Article 39b of the Constitution, amendments to the Electoral Code must be promulgated more than one year before the simultaneous election deadline, i.e. the European, Federal, Regional and Community Parliaments, by the beginning of May-June 2019 at the latest, at the beginning of May 2018. My administration is preparing a draft comprehensive electoral law to which amendments to the Schedule of the Electoral Code may be incorporated. With this in mind, in order to respect this timing, it is important that the Walloon amendments be communicated to us as soon as possible, so that I can present this draft bill to the Council of Ministers in September of this year, before the bill is tabled in the Federal Parliament as soon as possible, so that the legislative work can be carried out without urgency and in peace. With regard to the provincial elections in the Walloon Region, which still uses the appendix of the Electoral Code for cantonal distributions, such a timing, leading to a promulgation no later than the beginning of May 2018, seems acceptable, the provincial election being held on October 14, 2018. Finally, as long as the redistribution of constituencies for the Walloon Parliament is in conformity with the legislation, the Walloon Parliament is fully competent in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u43	Mr Minister, first of all, you consider your role at the federal level to be "technical" from the moment when, on the one hand, there is Flanders with its proposals, on the other hand, is Wallonia. And even if there was only one of the two that was successful, you relay their request from a technical point of view, as it is. You don't negotiate the redistribution and you take over. Secondly, I note that it is in September that you must be formally seized. And you're telling me it's still playable in September, including for the provinces?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u44	Provinces and municipalities are the same...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u45	Yes, yes, of course, but the elections fall in October 2018. If we take into consideration the need to be a year before, in October 2017, we have to go very quickly in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u46	Yes, yes, that's it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u47	Okay, thank you for your answer. Indeed, there was no nuclear bomb in the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u48	Synatom has historically focused on the reprocessing of part of the spent nuclear fuel. More than 600 tonnes were transported to La Hague in France before the Belgian Parliament decided to suspend any reprocessing of spent fuel. Hazardous nuclear waste from reprocessing is now returning. The CSD-V and CSD-C categories have already been repatriated. But sludge flushing effluents (CSD-B) still have to be, and will be, in the near future. What is the volume and weight of the waste that still needs to come back to us? My second question is about the precise timetable for this repatriation. We know that it will take place again this year, but when exactly will the transfers take place? It is also known that ONDRAF is responsible for transport as soon as these wastes arrive on Belgian territory, under the permanent control of AFCN. Is it not the ONDRAF that is going to organize these transfers or is this operation outsourced? If so, to whom and within what framework? It is by rail that the transport will be carried out from Valognes to Mol station. How many convoys will be required? How many cars will have to be mobilised? What protective measures are being taken for such transport? How fast does the train that transports these hazardous waste travel? Is it stopping at some stations? Which ones? What information is received by the communal authorities whose territory is crossed by these convoys? When they arrive at Mol station, the hazardous waste is then transported by road to the Dessel site and building 136, about five kilometres away. How is this last part of the transfer organised? What protective measures are being taken for such transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u49	Mr Nollet, this year the repatriation of CSD-B waste – thirty-five canisters – will be split into two parts. The AFCN has no data on their volume and weight, as this information is not relevant to its mission. The Agency inspects and controls practices involving radioactive material - in this case, the transport of dangerous goods of Class 7 - regardless of the volume or weight of the goods transported. The ONDRAF obviously has all this information, as the body responsible for waste management in Belgium. For reasons of public order security, the details of the routes taken – date and time of this type of convoy – are never communicated in advance, as AFCN has always done in the past with regard to the repatriation of other waste from the reprocessing of spent fuel. It is only the next day that AFCN will provide information on the transport process. According to Article 179 of the Law of 8 August 1980, ONDRAF is in particular responsible for the transport of waste on Belgian territory. To this end, it monitors the proper preparation and execution of routings, under the permanent control of the AFCN, which is responsible for the enforcement of regulations relating to the security of the transport of radioactive material. However, ONDRAF authorized Synatom to organize the convoy of waste from a reprocessing of nuclear fuels from the Areva-La Hague site to the Belgoprocess site. Synatom entrusts, in agreement with ONDRAF, the preparation of the transport to Areva TN. The railway journey on our territory to the Mol railway station and then the road route between Mol and Belgoprocess in Dessel are carried out respectively by a railway undertaking and a road carrier. The two firms in charge of this mission must apply for a permit to transport issued by the AFCN. To date, they have not yet submitted their files. As a result, the AFCN cannot yet confirm who the carriers will be. Two transports, each of TN28VT packages in charge of CSD-B, are planned in 2017 for the repatriation of the 35 canisters. This dedicated transport consists of several cars and locomotives, one of which carries the parcel TN28VT. The exact composition of the convoy is determined by the organiser according to the logistical aspects of the transport arrangements. The AFCN controls the package, regardless of the train composition. The speed of the convoy on the rail network is the responsibility of the infrastructure manager, Infrabel, and the railway carrier. Stops on Belgian territory are limited to stops necessary for the logistical organization of the transport or for security reasons. The Direction-General Centre de Crise du SPF Intérieure sends the itinerary and timetable of these transports to the governor by asking them to inform the mayors concerned. The last part of the transport, between the Mol station and the Belgoprocess site in Dessel, is an exceptional road convoy which takes place at reduced speed given the mass of the package. With regard to specific measures at the radiological level, there are none. Whatever the mode of transport, whether by rail or by road, the safety of the transport of radioactive material rests on the package, i.e. the packaging and its contents. Packages used for the transport of nuclear waste are designed to protect people and the environment in all circumstances, under both normal and accidental conditions of transport, regardless of the mode of transport used. The packages concerned, type B, meet the strict safety criteria established by the International Atomic Energy Agency and included in the various global regulations. Such packages shall be subject to the approval of the competent authorities of the countries concerned, in particular AFCN if the packages are used on Belgian territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u50	Minister, I thank you for your answer and for having had the will to go to the end, despite the President's insistence on trying to cut you off. I just have a little supplementary question: when you say "people are warned the next day", I guess the municipalities are not notified the next day?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u51	No, no, like I said, the Crisis Center...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u52	The governor?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u53	Yes, the governor...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u54	But that's before?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u55	It's before.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u56	Long before or...?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u57	As soon as the Crisis Center knows.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u58	Oh, yes, all right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u59	When I say "the next day", the general public is warned by the AFCN website.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u60	Yes, because I assume that the municipalities must put in place a very small mechanism in connection with this information about the crossing of a convoy on their territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u61	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u62	When I say "everything small," this device can sometimes be bigger...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u63	Mr President, Minister, it is good to conclude with this point, because I want to deepen the exchange that we had, without going back to the interest that we had agreed to have the sub-committee. It is really to have the maximum information about what we had already exchanged on 14 June and without repeating the whole debate at the same time. Minister, can you confirm to me that, given the indications that have recently exceeded the rating threshold, it is now 13,625 defects that are listed on Doel 3? What is the size of the largest crack listed on Doel 3? Even if we know that the analysis on Tihange 2 will only be complete in September – that's what you told me once – can you tell me what the size of the largest crack currently listed on Tihange 2 is? In your answer, you were talking about the distribution of crack size on the Gauss curve. Can you give me a copy of the distribution charts (depending on the size of the cracks) 2014 and 2016 for Doel 3, so that we can compare? Similarly, can you give me a copy of the distribution charts (depending on the size of the cracks) 2014 and 2017 for the 619 cracks already analyzed on Tihange 2? Last week, you informed me that all the cracks had not been analyzed, but only 619 had been analyzed. In your response of 14 June 2017, you often refer to the "notation threshold". Can you give me the encrypted value of this rating threshold for Doel 3 as well as Tihange 2? I understand the notion, but I don't have the numbers. So, in order to properly measure the extent of the deviations, I need to know the number of the rating threshold. Thank you, Minister, for your answers, which I have no doubt, given the importance of the issue, will be as precise and exhaustive here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u64	Mr Nollet, I hope you have kept some questions for the nuclear safety sub-committee!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u65	Don't worry, I have more, but more about methodology. Remember, it was planned to deal with the methodological aspect in the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u66	To answer your first question accurately and scientifically, it is 1,529 fault indications in the upper virole and 12,117 in the lower virole that must be considered as defects in the calculations to demonstrate the strength of the Doel 3 tank to any type of event that may occur there. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) has published all of these results on its website. With regard to your second and third questions, both Doel 3 and Tihange 2, the indications that have recently exceeded the scoring threshold are small. There is therefore no influence on the extremes of the population of signs of defects. The largest group of defects considered as a single indication of defects for structural integrity analysis is therefore of a size... [[the Minister shows a table]] - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You will find all the figures in this table, which I will also provide for the report. As far as your fourth and fifth questions are concerned, there is a lack of understanding. The interesting parameter is not the distribution of the sizes of hydrogen microbulles, whether during the 2014 or 2017 inspection, but the distribution of size variations between these two inspections. This distribution, purely symmetrical, shows that during the 2017 inspections, the same number of defects saw their size increase as much as decrease. So there are several thousand defects slightly smaller than three years ago and a few thousand slightly larger ones. AFCN has published all of these results on its website. The link is on the document we will provide you. As far as your sixth and seventh questions are concerned, let us first recall an important basis in the dossier of the indications of defects in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. In the context of this dossier, the safety authority required that the procedure used by the operator be qualified for the detection, positioning and dimensioning of "hydrogen faults". In this context, the qualified procedure at the beginning of autumn 2015 is valid for all Belgian reactors, which means that all the parameters applied by the measurements are identical for each ultrasonic inspection. The rating thresholds are therefore absolutely the same for Doel 3 and Tihange 2. On the other hand, it must be understood that there is not a notation threshold for the machine used but a detection threshold for each of the different sensors. Rating thresholds have been set at different values depending on the use, range, characteristics, etc. of each of these sensors. The rating thresholds for the fault dimensioning are therefore between - 24dB and - 30dB depending on the sensor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answer. I just want to be sure that I have recorded the numbers you gave at the beginning of your answer on the flight: 1,529 and 12,117, which makes a total of 13,646. I quickly made the total, which means that we are increasing the total number compared to what was previously recorded. You're telling me that some people have disappeared, that they have gone below but not, since, in total, we are higher than before. That's where I don't understand very well. How can you say – I'm going to analyze the charts – that it's stable from the point of view of distribution when we see that the total number of indications that are above the rating threshold you referenced is more important than two years ago for Doel 3? You also tell me that there are upward variations and downward variations. That is the problem with the methodology and its reliability, but I reserve this discussion for the sub-committee because it has been said that it will be dealt with there. It is good because there are these variations that you draw as a conclusion that as some are on the rise and others on the downside, this is no problem. As far as I am concerned, this raises at least the problem of reliability, but we will have the debate in the subcommittee. We're not going to repeat the debate at the same time. That is why last week I allowed myself to point out this question, this issue of reliability. For the rest, I will take the time to analyse whether it is preferable, or not, for me to ask you a question before the next sub-committee, in which we will deal with the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic694x.u68	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 19458 was converted into a written question.
