ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I hope that today, at the request of amongst others the fellow Members of the Green Group, we will have an interesting exchange of views on the issue of the posting of workers. A number of oral questions have been tabled. The Minister will first make an introductory statement. Then the Members who have tabled a question will have the floor, but of course all other Members will be able to intervene if they so wish, which is why it is an exchange of views. As always, the Minister provides interesting slides in his presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as always, we have prepared some slides. These are now being copied and will be delivered to you shortly. I hope that the explanations given by the slides will already answer a number of questions. I look forward to the exchange of views because the timing of this meeting is ideal, since we have an EPSCO Council in Luxembourg on Monday, wherever this issue is discussed. In the European Union, Belgium, after Germany and France, is the country receiving the third largest number of posted workers on its territory. In 2014, Belgium received around 160 000 posted workers, mainly in the construction sector. In 2016, there were 185 000. We are speaking for the sake of clarity about people who have been reported uniquely. This seems important to me in the further debate, because some come several times a year. In the top 5 of the seconded countries, we find Poland and Portugal in addition to our neighbouring countries, the Netherlands, Germany and France. Here too, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the largest seconded volumes come from our neighbouring countries. It is perhaps a misconception that the large numbers would come from other countries. From 1 January 2017 to 13 October 2017, 625 387 reports of employees, including 118 111 unique employees. Many incoming and outgoing postings are a responsible way to carry out a contract in another Member State, for example to provide a certain level of expertise. However, we cannot ignore the fact that a number of postings are causing unfair competition or even social dumping in the political debate. This risk is, of course, much greater if the rules are not applied. As each situation was different, the government opted, at the beginning of the legislature, for a diversified approach in the fight against unfair competition and social dumping. We have a multifaceted approach. I would like to explain it briefly, without going into detail. Firstly, we are pursuing a policy of reduction of charges and responsible wage development and, secondly, we have a specific reduction of charges for activities in yards that are now in the scaffolding. Thirdly, legislative work in our own country, such as the transposition of the implementing directive. Fourthly, there is legislative work at European level, with the Posting of Workers Directive and the Social Security Regulation. Fifth, there is the strengthening of inspections and controls. Sixthly, we are working on targeted solutions for risk sectors. I will confine myself today to the current work at European level; I will not discuss the other aspects in detail, even if they are important. As you know, European legislation has laid down a set of mandatory rules on working conditions for posted workers. These rules are reflected in Directive 96/71, which was approved in 1996 on the posting of workers. Since the enlargement of the European Union in 2004 and 2007, the lower wage and working conditions of most Baltic and Eastern European States have led to a significantly higher wage gap compared to the situation before the Posting of Workers Directive was adopted, which undermines competition in the single market. The instrument is therefore no longer adapted to the Europe of the 28, soon to be 27 Member States. Therefore, Belgium was one of the countries in 2015 which encouraged the European Commission to review the rules in order to ensure fair conditions of pay and competition, both for workers posted and for local companies in the host country. Since postings put the principle of the free movement of services into practice in the single market, we must ensure that healthy and fair competition and fair working conditions for workers are ensured in this context. Not only do we bear in mind fair competition and workers' rights in our country, but we also do not forget the interests of Belgian workers and companies operating in other Member States. That too is important to underline. After all, Belgium is not only an important recipient of posted workers, but also the eighth on the list of main sending countries. The government has therefore supported from the outset the European Commission's initiative adopted in March 2016 as part of its workers' mobility package aimed at a targeted revision of the rules on secondment. In addition to the Devolved Work Directive, another element of this mobility package was the revision of Regulation 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems. In particular, the Regulation stipulates that a worker posted to another country, under the conditions laid down in the Regulation, shall remain subject for 24 months to the social security legislation of his country. Because of the difference in contribution level, this principle explains the difference in salary costs even in the case of perfectly legal secondment. The Posting of Workers Directive, which lays down rules on what is applicable in the field of labour law, is therefore only part of the story, and I will come back to that later. In the negotiations on the Posting of Workers Directive, Member States are deeply divided. Two opposing visions are manifesting themselves. Member States with lower wage and working conditions shall defend the interests of undertakings using that competitive advantage. In this context, seven Member States, Poland, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Romania, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, are opposed to the revision of the rules, fearing the end of the posting in applying the principle of equal pay for equal work. The other camp is made up of the so-called like-minded Member States, such as Belgium, France, Germany, Austria, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Sweden, which defend the interests of workers and of companies dealing with abuses, unfair competition and social dumping. In June 2017, after more than a year of difficult negotiations, the Maltese Presidency reached a compromise proposal that addressed many of our concerns and points of attention. However, in the meantime, on 31 May 2017, the Commission had proposed a Transport package, which regulated, inter alia, the working conditions of truck drivers by providing for a number of derogations from the Posting of Workers Directive. A large number of Member States are requesting specific treatment in the field of posting for the road transport sector, in particular the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia and Spain. This was the reason for Spain to no longer be able to accept the compromise proposal. At the same time, I assume that you remember, France also wanted to accept a compromise for electoral reasons, I think we were between the first and the second rounds. It was supported by Germany. The EPSCO Council on 16 June was therefore unable to reach an agreement. Negotiations were then resumed under the Estonian Presidency. Several new text proposals were made, with a number of points of discussion which have still not been clarified. However, we have the ambition to reach an agreement at the EPSCO Council on 23 October next week, Monday or perhaps Tuesday morning. With the help of slides, I would like to show where the Belgian position is now. I assume that will be the subject of an exchange of views. I will begin by outlining the current European and Belgian legal framework. I shall then go into more detail on the objective and content of the proposal for revision. I will then give an update on the discussions and explain the Belgian position for the EPSCO Council on 23 October. Finally, I will clarify the concrete consequences of the review at Belgian level. In the context of the free movement of services, an employer may temporarily second its workers to a Member State other than that in which it is established, with a view to performing work benefits there. It is then a question of detachment. Everyone is aware that the Posting of Workers Directive defines the applicable working conditions for posted workers in the host country. This is primarily a hard core of working conditions, such as working time, rest periods, the minimum duration of annual leave and minimum wages. In addition, Member States may also impose other conditions of employment, as far as public policy provisions are concerned. However, it is important to note that the enforcement directive, which provides for new instruments to combat fraud and abuse and improve administrative cooperation between Member States' inspection services, is not endorsed by the proposal for revision. So far as Europe is concerned. Now I come to the Belgian framework. The Posting of Workers Directive was transposed into Belgian law by the Law of 5 March 2002, which widely transposed the possibilities offered. In the case of work performed in Belgium, the employer detaching his workers in Belgium is obliged to respect the working conditions laid down in the laws, royal decrees and collective labour agreements. Criminally sanctioned, this principle applies to all sectors of activity. These are essential provisions which guarantee the protection of workers' rights, including working time, holidays, temporary work and the posting of workers, well-being at work, the protection of wages, minimum wage allowances and other working conditions which have been declared generally binding and laid down in the collective agreement. This principle shall not prevent the application of the conditions of employment, remuneration and employment of the country of origin if they are more favourable to the posted worker. The Commission's proposal has a threefold objective. Firstly, fair wage conditions for workers by introducing the principle of equal pay for equal work. Secondly, ensuring fair competition between companies. Thirdly, clarification of the rules to remove barriers to the free movement of services. Allow me first to point out that the discussion on the duration of the posting is only about which working conditions apply at a certain point in time. There may be a misunderstanding about this. The twenty-four months of the draft directive or twelve months which Belgium and some other Member States are asking for is not a restriction or prohibition on postings of longer duration, as is sometimes thought. The question is, however, when most labour law rules apply, not when postings become impossible. It is important to underline this. The main thrust of the review, as set out in the most recent compromise proposal from the Estonian Presidency, is as follows. Firstly, in the case of a long-term posting, which covers more than twenty-four months, all the conditions of employment of the host country shall apply, with the exception of a limited list. In the most recent compromise proposal, this negative list included provisions on the conclusion of the employment contract and supplementary pension schemes. Secondly, in the hard core of working conditions, the concept of "minimum wage' is replaced by "wage'. This puts the principle of equal pay for equal work into practice in the same place. Limiting the minimum wage rate can create a wage gap between posted and local workers. This can create unfair competition between companies, since posted workers are less paid for the same work than local workers. In addition to the minimum wage, other wage elements, such as all bonuses and allowances, will have to be taken into account. Member States will have to define in a transparent manner the components of remuneration on their territory in order to make the comparison between wages in the two Member States. I would like to point out that, as I have just said, the law of 5 March 2002 already applies a broader concept of pay. In view of the case law that was not always clear on that point, it is therefore very important for Belgium that this is enshrined in the rules. Thirdly, the application of the generally binding collective agreements of the host country is mandatory for all sectors. So far, this was only the case for the construction sector. It should be noted that in Belgium application is already compulsory for all sectors. Fourthly, the hard core of working conditions is being extended to cover travel expenses, subsistence costs and food costs. Finally, seconded and local temporary workers will be treated in the same way. So far, that was optional. I must also point out that this equal treatment already applies in Belgium. What are the points of discussion and possible amendments? This proposal is the result of new negotiations after agreement on the Maltese Presidency's proposal could not be reached at the EPSCO Council on 16 June. During the summer period, France, then supported by Germany, proposed eight amendments relating not only to the Posting of Workers Directive but also to the rules on posting in social security, Regulation No. 883. At the end of August I signed these eight amendments together with our Prime Minister, together with the other Benelux countries and Austria. The objective was to achieve a more ambitious text and to clarify certain elements of the proposal. The following amendments were proposed in the Posting of Workers Directive. Firstly, there would already be a long-term posting after 12 months, in a reference period of twenty-four months. Secondly, the extension of the hard core of working conditions to cover expenses for housing, transport and meals, as well as the conditions for a decent accommodation, with the clarification that a posting fee is considered to be an expense which is not part of the wage in the event of any ambiguity in the terms of employment. Thirdly, the deletion of the preamble to the directive which refers to the need for specific rules for road transport. Fourthly, improved administrative cooperation between Member States' inspection services through a European platform against undeclared work. The amendments to the Posting of Workers Directive were only partially incorporated in the Estonian Presidency's compromise proposal. This remains the subject of discussion. I would just like to outline what the discussions are now. We now have the last Presidency and the current Presidency's compromise proposal. A first point of discussion concerns the posting of long-term workers. On the one hand, a number of exceptions are proposed to the principle of the application of all the conditions of employment of the host country, i.e. that negative list. In this context, Belgium is prepared to accept a limited negative list. On the other hand, there is a great deal of opposition to our proposal to limit the duration from twenty-four months to twelve months. Today, the Directive does not define duration and therefore it is not clear when full labour law will apply. The fact that there will be a deadline is very important, but the discussion is still about twenty-four or twelve months, or a comparison between those two periods. In addition, discussions continued on the inclusion in the hard core of expenses for housing, transport and meals. In this context, Belgium argues that this would include travel between the country of origin and the country of reception. Yesterday, the European Parliament discussed this matter and adopted a position on the matter. This must be taken into account, of course, because it goes a little further. Belgium was also asking for an obligation on the part of the employer to bear these costs. Then there was the discussion about our request to include the conditions for proper housing in the hard core of the text. That theme was only mentioned in one of the recitals in the current text. Finally, the application of the Posting of Workers Directive to the road transport sector remains one of the main issues for discussion. There are also quite different views on this issue. That is the last element, namely the Belgian position. At the EPSCO Council on 23 October, we wish to reach agreement on the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive and to reach a partial agreement on the revision of the Social Security Regulation. The European legislative procedure requires adoption by the Council by qualified majority. At present, the positions of the various Member States in this politically very sensitive and complex dossier have not sufficiently developed. An agreement acceptable to the majority of Member States will therefore have to be negotiated at the EPSCO Council itself. Here, the most important political decisions will have to be taken, in particular on the long-term posting, the application of the directive to the road transport sector and the transitional period, so an answer to the question of how much time the Member States and businesses will have to apply the new rules. An agreement must ensure that posted workers can receive the same remuneration as local workers who do the same work. In this context, the application of the broader concept of remuneration from the first day of secondment is essential. This principle seems to be acquired. So this is a victory for our country. The application of the broad concept of pay from the first day of posting is essential. The extension of the hard core of working conditions to the rules applicable to national law must also be maintained. We would also like to include in the hard core the accommodation conditions, which are for the moment only referred to in one of the recitals of the directive. The issue of housing should therefore not be included in the recitals but in the hard core of the text. In view of the fact that the average duration of secondment is four months, we believe that the time limit for a long-term posting should be reduced. In the case of long-term posting, the conditions of employment of the host country should be applied as widely as possible. I will therefore also call for as few exceptions as possible. The transitional period, which must allow firms to adapt to the new rules, is undoubtedly necessary. However, she must be reasonable. There are several periods in this area. Two years seems to me to be a reasonable period of time. Other countries want to extend that deadline even further. We will also call for increased administrative cooperation between Member States' inspection services, particularly in the European platform against undeclared work. In this context, the creation of a European Labour Authority, as announced by the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, in his State of the Union, is also an interesting reflection. There may be questions about this later and there are still some uncertainties. The European Platform shall coordinate at European level. It is also clear to us that the rules laid down in the Posting of Workers Directive must be fully respected for the posting of workers in the road transport sector. Nevertheless, account should be taken of the recent proposal by the European Commission aimed at laying down a number of specific rules adapted to the specific nature of the sector with a high mobility of workers. The proposal will have to be negotiated further in the Council's Land Transport Group. The deletion of the recital on the possible separate arrangements in the transport sector is therefore rather a question of consistency in substance for Belgium. Our country certainly remains prepared to talk about special rules for the transport sector if they are compatible with our objectives of fair competition and the protection of workers' rights. I am convinced that Belgium should play an active role in support of the Estonian Presidency and the European Commission, with the aim of reaching a balanced agreement at the EPSCO Council on 23 October 2017. That is a very important moment. If it does not work there, there are other presidencies. In that case, it will be very difficult to get anything back during the present legislature. The EPSCO meeting next Monday is therefore very important. In conclusion, I would like to refer to Regulation No. 883. The Posting of Workers Directive only regulates the effects of a posting on employment under the rules laid down in it. We also need to look at the social security rules that apply. That part of the mobility package will be followed by Minister De Block and Secretary of State De Backer, but I will give you the guidelines, given its importance as a context element in the discussion on the Posting of Workers Directive. Regulations 883 and 987 coordinate the rules on social security. In the first instance, the regulations govern in which Member State an employed or self-employed person is subject to social security and where he or she pays contributions. It is not just about the rules for a posted worker, it is also about the situation in which workers, for example, work in different Member States. In addition, the regulations regulate how a social security fund can claim social security benefits in another Member State. Since the proposals for the revision of these regulations were launched on 16 December 2016, discussions under the Maltese and Latvian Presidency have focused on long-term care, family allowances, allowances for inactive persons and implementing rules, including social security rules in the event of secondment. The basic rules remain unchanged, e.g. when an A1 form is issued by the home country to certify that a worker pays social security contributions or that twenty-four months, renewable up to five years by mutual agreement between the Member States concerned, remain subject to their own social security when working in another Member State. What does change, however, is that I would like to draw your attention to the extent to which a Member State is responsible for issuing that A1 form and the time limits for replying to the questions of another Member State, the fact that an administrative commission can decide on the way in which the A1 forms are to be issued, the withdrawal of an A1 form in the event of indisputable fraud, etc. From the outset, Belgium wants to make changes that will ensure even better that there is no fraud. We have therefore tabled, together with France and Germany, the following amendments: a three-month compulsory submission to the social security of the country of origin before a posting is possible and a three-month waiting period between two postings; the obligation of a substantial activity of 25% turnover in the country of origin, with a view to combating PO Box companies; a better regulation of activities in different Member States and a strengthening of the procedures for contesting the A1 document, proof of payment of social contributions in the country of origin. As I have said, these are matters that my fellow Members will follow up. Finally, I would like to clarify what concrete consequences a revision of the Posting of Workers Directive would have on the Belgian level. In the first instance, the broadening of the concept of pay confirms the Belgian interpretation of the Posting of Workers Directive already registered in the Law of 5 March 2002 and also followed in the recent case law of the European Court of Justice. However, an anchoring of the Directive will increase the effectiveness of inspection services. No one will be able to dispute that equal work is a right to equal pay. In the case of long-term secondment, Belgium will be able to apply more working conditions than is currently the case. These are mainly a number of provisions of the Employment Contracts Act, such as compulsory payment of guaranteed wages in the event of illness. In the case of posting temporary agency workers to Belgium, a question has also been put...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Finally, the possible specific rules for the road transport sector will also have to be incorporated into Belgian legislation. For Belgium, the impact will be not only legal but also political. Europe's acceptance of the principle that someone who performs the same work in a certain place is also entitled to the same wage and working conditions would be a fundamental step forward. For Europe itself, it is crucial to demonstrate that it can become a social union alongside economic union. I would like to point out that the next EPSCO Council will decide on the statement on the so-called social pillar. This will be a list of 20 principles which form the basis of our social prosperity and which will further guide the work of Europe and the Member States in the social field. Our aim is to achieve upward social convergence. The renewed Posting of Workers Directive will enable us to take an important step. Mr President, so much for a brief introduction, so that everyone is aware of the state of play. I am, of course, looking forward to the reactions that we can take to the EPSCO Council on Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u3	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, I believe that you have outlined a very realistic story. It was not a good news show without any more, but a story that contains some good elements. How and to what extent all this will be enforceable in the future remains to be seen. You have certainly not avoided the issues of discussion, as you call them. One of these points is whether or not to shorten the duration of the posting period. I am pleased that you are putting this forward as a point of discussion. This means that the battle has not yet been fought. I hope that on Monday you will have an impact on your fellow party members, the European Commissioner and your fellow Members at the European Assembly. Mr President, I, for my part, would like to outline the recent history of this story. It starts in spring 2016, when Mrs Thyssen explained the first part of her mobility package. This is a package of measures in the field of employment law, adjustments were required to the existing Posting of Workers Directive of 1996. The aim is to create a level playing field while improving the rights of posted workers. Mrs Thyssen wanted posted workers to be able to work on the same wage conditions for workers in the host country. It is not just about wages as a scary concept, but also about, for example, a thirteenth month, bonuses and so on. In May 2016, a dozen Member States, mainly from Eastern and Central Europe, drew the famous yellow card for Mrs Thyssen. This meant that the European Commission had to review its proposal and decide whether to retain it, adapt it or withdraw it. Before the summer of 2016, it was decided to retain the proposal. It went to the Maltese Presidency, which has come up with a compromise text, as you have also outlined. The intention was for the Central and Eastern European countries to be able to cross the line at a later date, at the subsequent EPSCO Council, thus opening negotiations on a final text. That proposal contained a number of elements, which I will not repeat again. In the context of that discussion at European level, the Belgian Government also had to take a position at that time. Many points were agreed on, inter alia, the obligation to submit the A1 forms for the workers concerned. Increased control and international cooperation were also agreed by most partners, but the possible reduction of the Posting of Workers Directive proved to be a bottleneck. Despite the fact that the Maltese compromise proposal did not provide for this at the time, my party, as you know, has always advocated a reduction in the time limit for the risk sectors, in contrast to the extension for real postings in sectors that are not susceptible to fraud and for which it is legitimate to argue that the period should be extended. The European Commission published the European Pillar of Social Rights in April 2017. In May the road transport package followed and then the EPSCO Council of 16 June, which you also mentioned, followed. The European Ministers of Work wanted countries there with the compromise text of the European Presidency, but that was outside Mr Macron who, as you pointed out, came forward with a number of amendments, supported by Germany. You have listed those amendments. There was a very clear demand for the length of posting to be reduced to 12 months. In September of this year, the Belgian Government decided to support the Franco-German axis and thus de facto took the view that it would be helpful to limit the period of posting to 12 months, not only, as you said, but also with the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in the European Parliament and a decision was taken which does not make us entirely happy. This lacks the plea for shortening the period of secondment. We have always argued for six months, but the federal government supported the Franco-German proposal of twelve months. That is already a good step in the right direction. Without further action, however, the proposal before us today is not a solution for achieving fair competition. Today, in this sense, it remains possible, under the guise of posting, to put Eastern European workers and others permanently into our labour market, with damaging consequences for certain sectors. You mentioned the construction sector, where thousands of construction workers lost their jobs because their European colleagues are cheaper, not because they would have more expertise or know-how. However, we must remain nuanced. What is now before us also contains good points. You have already explained the possibility of extending the period of secondment in the context of specific projects in non-risk sectors. Of course, we must not be blind to the good aspects of the principle of posting and all the benefits it has brought to our country. The principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place is also included, and this is essential in order to achieve fairer competition between workers. However, if no steps are taken to pay social security contributions in the home country for up to two years, there will be little level playing field. Let me give you some figures. The number of Limosa notifications for employees in 2010 was around 260 000. In 2016, that had evolved to over 660 000, which is a huge increase. In the construction sector, the number of postings was 52 000 in 2011 and almost 150 000 in 2015, mainly in Poland, Portugal and Romania. As you said, there are also postings from some neighbouring countries, such as the Netherlands and France, with, I believe, this nuance that not all workers posted from the Netherlands have Dutch nationality. Departing from these figures and from the number of Limosa returns in 2016, 660 000 notifications, you are right to say that they are not all unique employees. Figures from your colleague, Secretary of State De Backer, show that they would be about 190 000 unique employees. Let me make a conservative assessment and say that this is 150 000 unique employees who are working full-time against a medium wage in our country, that would bring about some 2.7 billion for the Treasury. If we do not get the budget in order today, I believe that there is still some work to be done in this area. You outlined the momentum, namely the EPSCO Council on 23 October. I note that there are still some points to be discussed. As I explained at the beginning of my speech, I think we should look at things with optimism and hope that we can take some further steps to prevent the posting directive's dossier from being an irrefutable knot. We must work together to ensure that the European internal market does not become the child of the account. The next presidency, if I am right, is Bulgaria, and that is not immediately encouraging to take further steps in this matter, which would be detrimental to the social Europe that we can expect. If Europe does not take any steps in this respect, the credibility and credibility of the European story will be undermined, which I believe we should avoid at all costs. Finally, I would like to ask a few specific questions. Minister, today we are still working under the inadequate Dimona declaration, which does not contain much useful information to tackle social fraud. However, according to the amended 2014 directive, which I will not go into in detail now, more information can be collected. Do you have the impression that Belgium has made sufficient use of the additional possibilities resulting from the amendment of the Directive in 2014? Following that, would it be a good idea, in your opinion, to further shape this track in a piece of Belgian legislation, for example by developing an electronic database in which information is bundled? Today, monitoring of the improper use of the system of secondment is particularly difficult, particularly due to the lack of effective control tools. Secondly, almost 3.5 percent of our employment in Belgium is done by posting. If you compare this with the Netherlands, Germany and France, you can see that this is about 1%. However, it could be assumed that a country such as the Netherlands, with a higher level of employment and a lower unemployment rate than Belgium, would attract more posted workers. However, the number of incoming A1 debt securities in Belgium in 2015 was 150 000 compared to the 80 000 in the Netherlands. So there's a sensitive difference. The difference for the number of A1 outputs is much smaller. There is the Netherlands with 90 000 outgoing A1s and we with 80 000 in our country. This therefore somewhat counters the argument that Belgium is very much in favour of postings. Of course, that is true, but not significantly more or less than the neighbouring countries. As far as you have not replied in your explanatory statement, Minister, I would have liked to have heard the most extraordinary conclusions you draw from the ongoing rather difficult negotiations on adaptation. Do you agree that there is still a need to amend to prevent improper use of secondment? On the basis of what you have said, I conclude that you agree. I would like us to be able to amend a number of points. The discussion is still ongoing. If I'm wrong, I'll hear it from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your presentation of this complex topic, not only in the texts, but also in terms of consensus to be found. This phenomenon, as you pointed out at the beginning of the introduction, causes significant damage to our labour market. So we must try to find solutions, at different levels of power, whether at European, federal, regional or even local level. I think we have to fight at every level to try to find the best solutions. I would say at this level that, as I had the opportunity to say in the transpositions of the public procurement directive and the implementing directive, we regretted that we did not have maximum transposition of the arrangements that Europe had put at our disposal. Having said that and recalled that, let us talk about what is now on the Council table. As you said earlier, this is particularly topical. The European Parliament's Social Affairs Committee has voted on an opinion on the draft directive, which should be ratified in a few days' time. There are interesting elements, others that are indisputably lacking ambition at this level, and hope that next week the Council will take a stand! Indeed, the texts on the table undoubtedly lack ambition and I believe that there will not be much effect, unfortunately, on the secondment in Belgium and its negative effects. I am afraid that even if the text is amended under pressure from France, Germany and with the accession of a number of countries, it will not avoid much. Nevertheless, this is a small step forward. Indeed, we had long called for the directive to be revised. We therefore stress this positive direction. It is always the same problem with the texts of the European Union: should we accept the soft and unambitious compromise, or should we push the negotiations further, given the complexity of the dossier and the differences of opinion? I'm afraid that's not much to do. I come to a few fundamental aspects. First, it is about remuneration. The reform provides for a new wording, which is better than the concept of "minimum wage rate". If this name allows more cases to be included and thus improve the status of secondees in the future, the question of social contributions is not settled. This aspect of dumping will therefore remain predominant, even if the issue evolves. Then comes the theme of the duration of the detachment. We argued that it should be limited to six months. The text speaks of twelve months. I hope that this last notion will pass, even if I feel that it is still too long. On 23 October, but also later – during the trialogue and the adoption of the final version – we should fight for a shorter period. Six months already seems a lot to me. In this regard, you indicated that the average was five months. In any case, if we were to stay for 24 months, the text would be absolutely unacceptable. I hope that the Belgian position will be in line with what I have just said. In addition, we need to keep an eye on how to calculate the duration of the detachment. Is this done on an individual basis, based on job positions? These criteria make it very easy to circumvent the rule of duration. I would like to know, in this connection, how you view things, how it is in the text, how the elements can be perfect either in the directive or in our legislation. What will be our way of manoeuvring in relation to the calculation of duration? As far as acting is concerned, we know that beyond the application of the rules of secondment, there is above all the search for circumvention of the rules. The notion of false independence, that of acting or subcontracting are ways of circumventing texts whose aim is to preserve the freedom of movement of workers – which we are in favour of – but also to avoid social dumping. As far as acting is concerned, I have the feeling that this will not change anything in the case of Belgium, even if the text is passed and even in the case of an obligation to provide information, because we know that the latter will not change much. In previous discussions, we have highlighted the fact that acting was a major source of circumvention and dumping, sometimes acting from very neighbouring countries. Would we not argue for a more radical position in order to remove the interim from the scope of the Detachment Directive and to avoid this system being so harmful? With regard to the subcontracting that we have discussed in the framework of the Public Procurement Directive, what about the overall legislation on the "detachment of workers" with regard to the establishment of a system of joint and several accountability in all situations, whether in the private domain or in public procurement? Are there any progress in this area? I'm going back to the deadline aspect. When you exceed the duration, what is the treatment? Based on the assumption that the 12-month rule will be adopted, when it is beyond 12 months, what is the status of the seconded person? You mentioned a negative list. What are the sources and risks of dumping and difference in status between a person who has been posted and who has been working in Belgium for more than 12 months and a Belgian worker? What are the differences and how can they be further reduced? Finally, a final element concerning the legal basis. I know that some argue for a dual legal basis. I believe that at the level of the European Parliament there would be a consensus to add to the current base, a basis linked to social policy. Is that your thesis, too? Are you going to plead that way? This could increase social sensitivity if there were to be interpretations in the Court of Justice. These are some elements of reflection and questioning, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I have listened very carefully. The dossier is particularly sensitive but refers to our inability to achieve a social Europe. It is the same for fiscal Europe, by the way. The need for a unanimous vote obliges very important concessions, in this case in favour of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which are trading – let us say clearly – their position. The problem is that we also have expectations towards them regarding the policy of welcoming refugees, a policy to which they are resolutely closed. It's not easy. We have seen this again recently during President Macron's tour. At times, he was going a little further than his counterparts in Central and Eastern Europe actually meant. We are always talking about posted workers from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Are there figures for Belgian workers who benefit from this directive in other European countries? For workers who are in Belgium, are the figures available? Is there any evolution? In Poland, for example, there are no longer enough workers and they come from Ukraine, a country outside the European Union. This is therefore a paradoxical situation because it creates frustrations not only in our own countries but also in some Eastern European countries that work better than Bulgaria and Romania. Mr Minister, do you think we can, together with the Belgian Commissioner, achieve a tangible result by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I think that next Monday is an important political moment for Europe. We have been calling for years in this committee for social dumping to be tackled, especially in the construction sector and in road transport. That is also very concrete. People also see this every day: the yards, the trucks on the road. I repeat that it is a politically important moment for Europe. In this way we show that we can tackle social dumping through the European way. If we fail to do so, we will once again be nibbling on the basis of European policy. The question then is whether we are going to accept a compromise or push the negotiations forward. I think our Belgian vision and position is the right one. The starting point is very balanced: equal pay for equal work and fair healthy competition. Both employers, employees and the government are in line with this discussion. I therefore believe that we should maintain this position to the maximum, both in terms of equal pay for equal work and in terms of duration. As you yourself have said, a posting lasts on average four months. Twelve months is three times that. We certainly need to hold on to that. The same applies to the secondment allowance. If we do not continue the road transport element in this debate, I fear that it will be removed for years and we will not be able to take any further steps forward. That would be a missed opportunity. We really need to keep this going. If a compromise is reached, everything will of course depend on enforcement policy in this area. Control and inspection will be essential. This has also been discussed for many hours in this committee. A lot of questions have been asked about it. In my view, it is not difficult to reach a compromise on control and inspection. People are always talking about digital Europe. Maximum efforts must be made to organise control and inspection at international level, using all modern techniques. In this case, it is easy to give the inspection unlimited access to databases and the like in order to organise that inspection and enforcement. That is where it begins: the day when one feels that one has to follow the rules, we can move forward. I come to another question that naturally arises. If only a compromise was reached on a number of matters and not on a number of issues, the question arises as to what extent one can then fall back on the enforceability in one's own country. If we fail to reach an agreement at European level to move forward, how can we possibly agree on the enforcement in our own country of matters on which no agreement has been reached? I would also like to stress the following. We have spoken a number of times in this committee about temporary work. We've seen the reports. We know the excesses. We know what it's like in this country. So we cannot be strict enough there and we cannot stand firm enough in our position to really combat these abuses in an international context. Once again, this is the political signal that can be given by reaching an agreement at European level. I have the following question, but you have already answered it in part in your explanatory statement. To what extent is what is ahead, the outline of a possible compromise and our position consistent with what was adopted yesterday in the Commission? Perhaps there are still elements to be drawn from that to take steps forward. You mentioned the social security rules, the exhaustion of social security rights and so on. What are the contours where one can go? In this area, too, it might be another time to point out that we have not only an economic European Union but that we are also moving forward in that social pillar. I would have liked to have heard the following. Should the compromise be well-behaved, what timing can we say that this will ever be practical in Belgium? What steps does that have to go through? If we had to move forward, we would also have to set a deadline. The difficult balance will indeed be what we can accept as a minimum in order to make it tangible and tangible in our own country that we have agreed at European level to combat social dumping. If this is not proven in concrete terms, then it will have to be considered whether this should not be pushed further. After all, if we accept a minimum compromise that is actually an empty box, then I fear that nothing will happen for years. I therefore wish you a great deal of bargaining power towards your fellow Members in order to reach a good compromise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u7	Minister, the compromise at European level may be a first step in the right direction. A compromise is indeed giving and taking. We know from the past that it is not always possible to make it home. That is why it is called a compromise. Allow me, Minister, to take a bit of a critical look at what it means to our country. It is good that the issue is being addressed at European level. Our country has already taken certain measures in the past to combat social dumping in part. I took a good look at your slides. The last three slides were about their impact on the Belgian level. You yourself admit that it is often a confirmation of measures that our country is already taking. However, I am missing a few points which I would like to give to you in the hope that you will still take them to the meeting on Monday or Tuesday. I also have a few other questions, because it is a broader exchange of views and because, as you yourself said, there are also several regulations that will have an impact on social dumping. It is good that a compromise has been reached so that equal pay for equal work has to be paid. What I do miss, however, is that the hard core does not include our wage protection law. Wage will indeed have to be paid now, but some employers also provide housing for their employees. You also know the images of the people who are housed in shacks, Minister. They pay a price which certainly does not correspond to what they get, but it is deducted from their wages. Therefore, I would have preferred the wage protection law, which makes clear agreements on what can be paid in kind and at what price, to be included, to give workers a certain level of protection. Secondly, if part of the wage is paid in the country of origin, that should be demonstrated. How can we make that happen? For example, should wages be paid in full in the country where they are employed, if they do not receive an answer within three days? In what way will these problems be addressed? We have introduced joint and several liability. Many labour auditors do not want to introduce joint and several liability now. That was the answer of the Secretary of State to many of our questions. There is simply no clarity as to whether half or part of the wage has been paid abroad. I do not have the real strength to check whether everything is actually paid and, if not, to use the joint and several liability that applies in our country. What is the point of this law if we do not have enough resources to deal with it? Thirdly, there is a step forward in adapting the law on working conditions applicable on the basis of the possible future directives on road transport, but there is still a very long way to go before concrete measures can be taken. I would have preferred the European Union to recognise cabotage journeys. If you work with cabotage journeys, you would also have to pay according to Belgian conditions of employment. That would have been a first step in the right direction, and it would have already been possible to implement a specific measure. There is the country of work and the country of residence, but the Koelzsch judgment requires that, if it can be demonstrated that there is a high level of activity in the country where there is work, it must be paid in accordance with the conditions of employment of that country. In this context, too, I do not have the necessary strength. We had therefore tabled an amendment to the Programme Act. The Secretary of State has said that he will take an initiative himself. How's that going? Has progress been made in the meantime? Fourthly, we note that many of the inhabitants of certain countries come here to work under the status of self-employed workers, whereas they are actually employees. I also find very little in the document on the possibility of requalifying the employment relationship between workers and self-employed persons. However, it is important. There is now the exchange tool, which will be the central point of contact between the two Member States. In doing so, the institution in the country of transmission will search the other authorities if it does not have the information itself. It also states that if no reply is received within a reasonable period of time, appropriate measures will be taken. What are appropriate measures? What does that provision mean in concrete terms? The essence of a posting is, of course, that a worker employed by a foreign employer comes here to provide a service, remains under the social security of the country of temporary employment, in order to avoid that the worker concerned would be constantly covered by another social system. There is now the period of twenty-four months, of which several Members have already indicated that this period is quite long. In reply to the current question I asked you on this point, you pointed out that we should be careful, because Belgium is detaching 80 000 Belgians. This would mean that, if, for example, a six-month period is introduced, rights would also be opened in the working country after those six months. What is the problem here? If correct contributions are paid, this should not in itself be a problem, unless I miss something. We therefore call for a reduction in the deadline. However, I understand that the twenty-four-month deadline will be the compromise proposal. Several Members have already said that it is almost now or never, because there will be a change of presidency. The regulation also needs to be discussed. It is a pity that the amendment of the directive has not been discussed at the same time as the amendment of the regulation, which would have made things much easier. What does the fact, however, mean that the twenty-four-month period will now be accepted? To what extent is there still an opening in that case to discuss other points or introduce new adaptations in the regulation at all? Secondly, there is some confusion over the twenty-four-month period. You yourself have said a few words about this. After those twenty-four months, the arrangement is not stopped, as I understand? But is it twenty-four months per assignment or twenty-four months per person? One posting is often carried out by different people. Do you count the twenty-four months per assignment? Or is it 24 months per person? Thirdly, not that much is changing for our country. Those adjustments will not teach us much. That is why I would like to come back to the transposition of the enforcement directive. I do not need to remind you that my group was disappointed when the government did not use the possibility offered by the directive to apply joint and several liability retroactively to the resulting wage debt. According to the Directive, the liability regime is mandatory for construction and can be extended. As Mr Daerden has said, your government has opted for a very minimalist implementation of the directive. It is now sufficient that, in addition to the construction contract, a certificate is signed stating that the Belgian rules will be complied with, in order to exempt the principal contractor from the specific joint and several liability. During the discussion, you said that you would evaluate this content and that after one year you would extend the specific scheme to other activities. A database would also be set up with the FOD WASO, where the principal or the main contractor can check whether his contractor has previously been outlawed because of the non-compliance with employment or wage conditions. That would be interesting. Are you already in the process of evaluating the scheme contained in the Law of 11 December 2016? Has that evaluation been completed? Is the extension of specific liability to other sectors already in preparation? Has a draft already been submitted to the social partners or to the sectors concerned for their opinion? What's their point of view? Are you in favour of setting up such a database or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u8	Mr President, Mr Minister, thank you for agreeing to come and take stock of this issue which is at the heart of the news - meeting of the European Parliament's Employment Committee yesterday and summit next week. As you said, there is indeed a momentum to try to reach a compromise on a revision of the Detachment Directive. I hope it will succeed. If the agreement is not perfect, the compromise is likely to improve things. Our concern from the beginning is that the Posting of Workers Directive is not sufficiently demanding in relation to equality between workers. Same job, same pay in the broad sense. That is what should have been planned more explicitly from the beginning, in order to avoid the abuses that we have had to see and their consequences for our internal economy. These abuses are the result of too vague a framework and too wide a control. By advancing the rights of posted workers, by ensuring that two workers who perform the same work are subject to equivalent standards and working conditions, and by advancing European solidarity, social dumping will also be combated. I think one can move on with the other. Minister, I would like to ask you about some of the elements of the compromise in order to set the framework for it. First, as regards the replacement of the term "minimum wage rate" by the term "remuneration", which is an important element, is there now an agreement between the negotiators on the definition of "remuneration" as such? Does the concept of "remuneration", as understood by everyone, also cover all benefits and benefits related to wages? It seems important to me to make that clear. Is there any room for negotiation in this regard? Are the non-papers circulating on the subject the subject the subject of consensus? Will there be a solid basis for defining compensation? Secondly, with regard to duration, several groups, including mine, would have wished for a shorter duration than the consensus reached. However, I am in favour of the fact that endless detachment will no longer be possible. Originally, the philosophy of detachment was to cope with a one-time surplus of work in a state. This makes it possible to employ workers from another European State, but indefinite posting should never have been possible. Is consensus definitive or can we still hope to see a reduction in the maximum duration of the detachment? What is planned to be put in place to avoid circumvention of the rule, a fictitious interruption of secondment, a lack of coordination and exchange of information between Member States? Control of the maximum duration is fundamental. Thirdly, with regard to the application of sectoral collective agreements to posted workers, the European Parliament proposes to go further than the compromise between ministers: a clause allowing Member States to apply the best sectoral or regional collective agreements to posted workers. Do you share the European Parliament's view? Do you think that the progress negotiated in the European Parliament's Employment Committee can be retained by the ministers? It is a step in the right direction that can make a real difference on the ground. For example, in Belgium, it might be possible to apply more ambitious sectoral collective agreements to posted workers than minimum wage elements. My fourth point concerns the question of subcontracting. Subcontracting is used almost systematically or, in any case, in an organized manner, to circumvent minimalist rules on the rights of posted workers. In some cases, there are a large number of stakeholders in a subcontracting system. This is a cascading system, which could be compared to the VAT carousel applied by some fraudsters. It must be ensured that the guarantees of remuneration and workers' rights effectively apply to the various subcontractors, and that a system of joint and several liability is applied. Do you think that the compromise being reached in the trialogue will improve things? I would like to express to you a fifth and final concern about this compromise. This is the question of the protection of workers who would themselves be victims of employers who do not comply with the rules. That is the question of the dual legal basis. The legal basis for posting today is based on the concept of the free movement of services, whereas this is not just about services, but about the social protection of workers. Do you think that minimum social protection for the most vulnerable workers, which could be described as "undelivered", can emerge from the compromise? These are my thoughts on the European compromise. It is too rare for us to have a debate on the posting of workers, so I would like to stress the internal control of the posting rules. You can refer me to the Secretary of State in charge of the fight against social fraud, but I would like to take the opportunity to have you face to face with me to insist on three elements. The first is the number of inspectors on the ground who are able to verify that there is no fraud or misapplication of Belgian directives and laws. The second point I would like to stress is that we must dare to tackle effectively those companies which use subcontracting in order not to comply with their social obligations, save social security contributions and therefore engage in social dumping. In Belgium, there are too many cases of cascade subcontracting with false employers. Our system of checks and prosecutions is not effective enough only to deter those who do so. Finally, I would like to remind you of the Court of Auditors' report on joint and several liability. The principle of joint and several liability for the payment of ONSS contributions already exists in our legislative arsenal, but the Court of Auditors points out that it is too little applied in Belgium and that the amounts of social contributions recovered are ridiculously low in relation to the volume of fraud. When a mechanism to combat fraud is poorly applied or not applied, it ultimately encourages fraud because it is known in the sectors concerned. On the national control side, we can make clear progress in ensuring that the directive, whatever its quality - I hope it will be improved by the compromise under negotiation - has its effects in order to avoid unfair competition or to prevent workers from being exploited and their social rights being respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u9	Mr. Chair, Minister, I thank you for your presentation of the current framework for the discussions under way and the steps to be taken. It is fair that October 23 will be an important step; I will return to it in a moment. The stakes are crucial. Every day in Belgium jobs are destroyed as a result of social dumping. Moreover, beyond these, a major European issue also exists. Indeed, if we do not make any progress on this issue, I am afraid that European integration will take a step backwards. There is a growing distance as citizens are increasingly rejecting Europe. However, if there is a good project, it is obviously that: that of a social and fiscal Europe that can even be extended to defence. The construction of a social Europe is very important. You have recalled the framework and some progress is surely to be made. The principle of equal pay for equal work is crucial. The element of duration is also essential. But I am astonished by the way the discussions are held. Speaking of an average of four months for a secondment, is it a European or Belgian average? In Belgium, if this is not an average of four months, what is the average in Belgium? Mainly, which sectors are more than 12 months in duration? In my view, in the ongoing discussions, this seems symbolic of what is actually happening on the ground. I therefore wonder whether this would hide questions that would not be displayed as such, hence my reference to road transport. Would this not be one of the sectors whose durations are among the longest? When we conduct a debate on duration, with averages, that is to say, without sharing things between the different States, it does not hide a plural reality and, above all, a reality that should be put forward in a clearer way in order to allow for more effective and effective negotiations. Minister, allow me to welcome Belgium's presence among the countries that want to move forward. That's a good thing. France, Benelux, Germany and Austria are among them. Nevertheless, I cannot help but regret that Belgium is making a double movement. On the one hand, the government is taking the approach I have just described. On the other hand, we have a compromise text which was voted on yesterday in the European Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and which is supported by Commissioner Marianne Thyssen. In my view, this attitude is likely to weaken countries that want to be more ambitious and to go further. The report adopted yesterday does not include the various amendments that you have just made. On the other hand, and paradoxically, part of the text is not included in your presentation. This is an important issue. I am referring to the obligation to respect the standards relating to collective agreements and subcontracts. This is essential in so far as the rules of secondment could no longer be circumvented. I regret the ambivalence of the Belgian position. I would therefore like to know how you coordinated the government's and Commissioner Thyssen's. Besides, I had the pleasure of reading it yesterday in a great French-language daily – Le Soir, not to name it. It is not a question of regretting the past, but of looking to the future. October 23 is a crucial date. I imagine that the countries that refuse to be as ambitious as ours, for example, will serve all the sauces with the compromise text that was voted for yesterday. This weakens countries that want to be ambitious. The question is, therefore, how the next steps can be taken after 23 October 2017 and according to what will be decided on that date. Is it not time for every country that wants to be ambitious, including Belgium, to bring together all the political forces of the European Parliament and Commissioner Marianne Thyssen around a common position? Should not the Belgian representatives act in a much more coordinated way on the European area in order to make it truly possible to draw all in the same direction? In the end, these positions, which range from a more minimalist step forward to a more ambitious position of the government, weaken Belgium in its position and in the way in which we can draw other countries up tomorrow. In this context, I would like to see what has been done behind the scenes by Belgium. I have no doubt that Commissioner Marianne Thyssen has used all her energy to arrive at a common text. It has been so far as to support Parliament's version, which was discussed and voted on yesterday in committee. Has the government negotiated with not the countries that agree to go further but with all the others? These are the ones you must be able to convince. Has Belgium, regardless of the Belgian Commissioner's position, made contact with the countries that are among the least ambitious today? President Macron did it for France. I would like to know what you and the government as a whole have done in terms of these contacts in an attempt to convince other countries. It's vital. The question is whether tomorrow there will be a blocking minority on this issue or whether, on the contrary, there will be a qualified majority. Finally, I would like to touch on one final point, Minister. It is dealt with in the question I had tabled. This is the way in which the Implementing Directive on the posting of workers applies today. The law of 11 December 2016 transposed it into Belgian law. It has been in force since 30 December 2016, i.e. 10 months. It contained a series of novelties. I have echoes, employers and trade union organizations, of its effect on the ground. Has there been a review of the implementation of this law? Rather than these echoes, you are able, with the Employment FPS, to give us an accurate and comprehensive picture of reality. In my view, there are several questions. The law lays down a number of criteria for determining whether the worker is actually a posted worker. How does this happen in practice? Is there an objective and quantified analysis of this element? Inspection services may request the employer to provide certain documents relating to the posted worker and his occupation in Belgium. Do you have an quantified analysis of this measure? The law also introduced a new system of joint and several liability for the payment of wage debts in the construction sector, applicable to direct contractors. What is the situation in practice? And, above all, is this system also being implemented in public works for which the Belgian State is fully involved? Let me give you an example: the construction site of the Mons railway station. I'm talking about Infrabel and SNCB. I went to the field. There is a significant number of posted workers. Obviously, things are not clear. An inspection was carried out. Is the new system of joint and several liability applied? This is one example among others, but it is indicative of a gap between the law and the field. It remains to be seen whether this is due to the lack of clarity in the legislation or to the lack of sufficient capacity in the inspection services to carry out effective inspections and to undermine this phenomenon of daily social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u10	Minister, thank you for your introductory statement. I note the lack of reality on the ground. You tell us that Belgium is ahead of the directive discussed at European level and that we are already applying the principle of equal pay for equal work. I therefore understand that everything is to the best of the worlds and that social dumping does not exist in Belgium. In Belgium, Portuguese construction workers sometimes earn 2.08 euros per hour; in petrochemicals in Antwerp, Polish scaffolders earn around 300 zlotys, or 75 euros per month. It is also known that these dumping mechanisms are not necessarily carried out by foreign companies. They are also Belgian companies that create a subsidiary abroad to get people to work at a lower cost here. I therefore think that we are in fact far below what is really needed to combat social dumping. The European Union has created four fundamental freedoms. But here, above all, it is about the freedom of multinationals to exploit less-favoured workers in a better way. In 2012, for example, UBT went to Slovakia and visited twelve Belgian-Slovak companies. The union found only one of the twelve trucks at one address. All the others were office buildings where only mailboxes were found. How do we fight this phenomenon? I hope you don't turn me over to any of your government colleagues. It would be interesting for you to address this aspect of social dumping and companies that do not comply with the rules. What percentage of sanctions are applied, and what percentage are they? It is essential to deal with these things if social dumping is to be discussed. Indeed, to have a very nice directive - and it is far from beautiful! - is of no use if we don't apply it. I believe that purely financial sanctions may be weak if an offender is not also threatened with a closure of the site, a confiscation of trucks, etc. There is also a problem with the number of monitors and inspectors in the field. Are there enough? I feel like I'm not. We all remember this government's decision to abolish the social inspection or dismantle it in order to recast it in other services, without having a clear view of what will happen to this unfortunately essential service, which was already too little developed. It may disappear or melt completely. With regard to the directive itself, I raise the question of the duration of the secondment. In the previous situation, no duration was determined, and we are now talking about 24 months. The Belgian position is to defend a duration of 12 months in a reference period of 24. These durations have the merit of existence, but a little like a swordstroke in the water. Indeed, the actual duration provided by posted workers who come here is far less than that. If a duration is to be fixed, it must be in line with the reality of the ground. At the level of the European Parliament, the GUE/NGL Group has defended - and the PTB joins this proposal - the idea of having a duration of 3 months. I therefore invite you to have a more ambitious position than 12 or 24 months as the duration of the secondment. One of the consequences that I note in particular related to this length of posting is the aspect of social security. The Directive deals with aspects related to wages, and in particular with its definition, but not with social security. The question is, therefore, where and how many social contributions are paid, although it is known that the amount of these contributions is an important element of social dumping. Our social security is also threatened without social dumping benefiting the social security of the countries of origin of posted workers. On the definition of wages, I would like to have some clarification on the Belgian position. You tell us that for Belgium it is equal pay for equal work. It's a little short! I understood that Marianne Thyssen's proposal for a directive defended a European definition of what a salary is. Clearly, the European Parliament does not share this view. So what is Belgium's position in relation to this and in relation to the definition of wages? On the question of subcontractors, Minister, I would also like to know the Belgian position. Indeed, at the level of the European Parliament, the liberal groups and the one to which the N-VA belongs have tried to remove the meagre progress made on the issue of subcontractors in Marianne Thyssen's proposal for a directive. To the extent that your Government is composed of three quarters of these two political groups, what is the Belgian position on this issue? You understand my interest and curiosity on this point. Finally, in the debate on social dumping, some – particularly in your majority – tend to make it a question of conflict between European states: the bad workers of such a country against Belgian workers. Workers in the richest countries of the Union lose in social dumping, but workers in the poorest countries have nothing to gain from it either, and certainly not their social security! At the PTB, our proposal would be to pay the social contributions paid in the host country to the country of origin, since these workers are posted and mainly live in their country of origin. This would prevent social dumping because there are significant levies here. I think it would be a form of solidarity of the world of work within the European Union rather than putting workers in competition for the benefit of multinationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u11	Mr President, I should like briefly to express some reservations on our part. First of all, I would like to urge you to exercise some caution when it comes to discussions of this kind. After all, we are talking about the fundamental pillars of our European market, our European internal market. Freedom of movement for workers and services is essential and is also part of the European Union project. Freedom of movement is one of the absolutely essential issues. It is the European Union's ambition to be the largest socially-adjusted free market in the world. This means that we must also respect this freedom of movement here. After all, not everything about posting is bad. Let me give you an example, a figure that has not been mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, for Belgium, 58 percent of the postings we receive come from countries where wages are high and therefore there is no problem. I will focus on what goes wrong, but there are also things that go very well, with postings that are needed. Why are they needed, fellow Members? Through posting, we can deal with local shortages of specific specialised employee profiles. Perhaps it does not apply to Wallonia and Brussels, but in Flanders, and especially in West Flanders, we are faced today with an absolute shortage of labour. Fortunately, the system of secondment exists. Conversely, that's true. Do not underestimate the fact that there are many Belgians who can work across national borders via posting. They are seconded from Belgium to other countries and thus allow companies to export, grow and expand their activities in other countries. Through the Posting of Workers system, if it goes properly, the countries of origin will be given the opportunity to reduce unemployment and to increase their income. In itself, therefore, this is also a system which will improve the balance in Europe. Minister, of course we must eliminate all forms of abuse that have been committed. In that respect, we are absolutely your allies. It is about better rules but also about better controls. The problems are well known. We hear and see them in the construction sector and the transport sector. We need to take action against that. That's obvious. We support the proposals you have launched, together with your colleague Philippe De Backer. We do not want to reverse the clock when it comes to the essence, in particular that Europe is a socially-adjusted free market. This has to stay that way! I have two questions for you, Minister. You say that, after the period of twenty-four or twelve months, depending on the final agreement, postings will not be impossible in future, but that the full labour law of the host State will apply if that period is exceeded. This probably means that Belgian notice periods will then also apply. What about, for example, a German who is posted here for more than two years? He then has a German and a Belgian notice period? Can you clarify that? The notice period is just an example. Can you also specifically list which additional conditions a posting exceeding the maximum period of 12 or 24 months will have to meet in addition to the conditions applicable during the first 12 or 24 months? I shall then come to my second question. We are a Europe of the free market, but also of complexity. We have three institutions that make laws, because besides the Commission and the Council there is also the European Parliament. Yesterday there was an important vote. The committee responsible has decided that the time limit should be maintained at twenty-four months. What other imperatives does the European Parliament and how do they relate to the discussion in the Council? In this way we will find out what Parliament's position is. So much for my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for all your comments. I hope that the debate at European level will produce results next week. All the comments you've made, I'll take with me. I understand that everyone believes it is important to take a step forward. Mr Daerden does not think it is ambitious enough, but it is my feeling that everyone in this committee believes it is important to achieve the most ambitious consensus possible at European level. As Mr Vercamer said, we will have to consider whether the compromise that will be reached on Tuesday morning represents a sufficient step forward. In any case, we will do our utmost to bring an ambitious compromise forward. A number of colleagues have asked about the debate in the European Parliament. Mrs Fonck suggested an interesting idea, namely to ask the European Parliament and the Commissioner responsible to examine the best way forward on this issue. Yesterday, therefore, an important consensus was reached in the European Parliament. I have here an overview of the main elements of the proposal. It has already been pointed out that the agreement reached yesterday in the European Parliament held a period of twenty-four months. Mrs Fonck, the agreement covers 24 months and we are in favour of negotiating a 12-month deadline, as are other countries. You're right. There is a difference between yesterday's agreement and the demand from some countries, including Belgium, to reduce the duration to 12 months. I stressed that we must find a solution between 12 and 24 months. We will try to convince other countries to accept the 12 months. But between 24 and 12 months, there's a margin. I hope we will find a solution closer to the 12 months, but we will see. According to the agreement in the European Parliament, collective bargaining agreements which have been declared non-generally binding may also be imposed on hard core conditions. A slight problem arises in Belgium at the level of the CTCs. There is a small problem because in Belgium collective agreements must be made universally binding before they can be imposed. On this point, Belgian legislation is a little stricter and we cannot, therefore, enforce collective agreements which have not been declared generally binding vis-à-vis companies. There are also a number of smaller elements, such as the rules on workers' housing and accommodation. These rules must be part of the hard core. I have just said that the Presidency's proposal only includes this in the recitals. So we will make further efforts to get them into the hard core. We have also asked for an explicit confirmation that the travel and accommodation expenses are borne by the employer and should not be deducted from the salary. As far as the European Parliament is concerned, there are two important elements which differ, namely the twenty-four-month period and the non-binding collective agreements. We cannot deviate from the latter at Belgian level. As far as the twenty-four months are concerned, we shall see what the negotiations produce. On the other two points, namely housing and accommodation, as well as the reimbursement of costs, we agree with what was proposed in the European Parliament. We will do everything we can to ensure that this is included in the final decision-making process on Monday. Mr Raskin, as far as the shorter period is concerned, I understand that you support the twelve-month period. The closer to the 12 months, the better. I can only confirm that. I repeat what I said earlier. Longer-term recordings will always be possible, whether it is 12 or 24 months. As you yourself pointed out in the case of social security, the duration is still stated in Regulation No. 883 at twenty-four months anyway. That's not up for discussion. In the case of labour law, there is not much difference between short and long periods of time, because we are explaining the directive strictly and will continue to do so. These are all elements that need to be taken into account. Once again, we will do everything we can to reach an agreement for 12 months, although I believe that a formula will have to be found between 12 and 24 months. Questions have also been asked about how this is calculated. It shall be calculated on the basis of calendar days. It was also asked whether it was about a period or persons. The twenty-four months refer to the task being carried out. The period of twelve or twenty-four months shall also continue when a replacement is made by another worker or worker. If worker A is replaced by worker B at a certain point in time when posting, that period will continue to run, even if the worker has been replaced. Mrs Fonck, you asked me whether the four months corresponded to a European or Belgian average. This is a European average. The figures are not obvious; we know them for 2014. We have tried to get more current ones. Mr President, with your agreement, I will provide those figures to your committee secretariat so that we can give them to you. Mr Raskin also asked questions about the figures. The number of full-time equivalents represented by those 185 000 unique people is, of course, lower, but unfortunately we do not have many up-to-date figures available for each sector. The latest figures date from 2014. Mr Raskin, you also asked a question about Limosa. I can refer to the Royal Decree of 17 September 2017, which is very recent, with which we have made some adjustments towards what you intend to do with your question. Perhaps I can confine myself here to a reference to the royal decree, of which I now hand you the text. As far as Limosa is concerned, therefore, we have taken steps in the direction you have requested. Mr Daerden, you are right to point out that we must be ambitious and that the same applies to detachment. But you are also aware that the solution must be shared between twenty-eight European States. As Mr Vercamer pointed out, it is important to see progress coming because it is not enough. Therefore, we must not agree at this stage. It was the center of the discussion on Monday and Tuesday. Social contributions are lower and this problem is not addressed by the Detachment Directive. With regard to the 24-month deadline, you expressed your reprobation by saying that it was too long, which you are right about. We'll find a solution. With regard to temporary work and temporary work, I can provide you with the following information. The compromise proposed by the Presidency concerns two aspects in terms of applicable working conditions. The compromise provides for the obligation to apply to secondees the essential working conditions and the use of the languages of the host State, conditions applicable to nationals on the basis of the Interim Directive. These essential conditions of work and use of languages are those laid down in the legislation and the CLCs in force with the user relating to working hours, overtime, periods of breaks and meals, night work, holidays, holidays, remuneration, protection of pregnant women, etc. The compromise also provides for the possibility of equal treatment for other conditions not provided for in the Interim Directive. It is important to note that this provision will not have an impact in Belgium since Belgium, through the Act of 5 March 2002, already applies full equality of treatment between temporary workers, secondees and nationals. Since the Act of 24 July 1987 on temporary work is penalised, it is applicable in the case of posting of temporary workers to Belgium. Seconded temporary workers thus benefit from the same working conditions as those already applicable to the Belgian user and his permanent workers in the same way as national temporary workers. In terms of the obligation to inform the head of the user of temporary workers posted to the foreign agency, the Belgian user will have to inform the foreign agency of all the working conditions applicable in his company. The Act of 24 July 1987 on temporary work should therefore be adapted to this issue. Finally, with regard to posted temporary workers employed by this user in a Member State other than that in which the same temporary workers have been posted, the Law of 24 July 1987 already contains an obligation to provide for the place of work in the contract concluded between the user and the temporary agency. I hope I have given all the elements of the answer concerning the interims. Mr Flahaux, I will pass on the figures you have requested to the secretariat. For the rest, we will try to find an appropriate solution. Mr Vercamer, I think you are right. We must find an acceptable solution and take sufficient steps forward. You rightly mentioned the transport and the inspection remains important. Questions were also asked by Mr Van Hees and others. 94 additional social inspectors were appointed, that aspect is as good as round. You were right to talk about agreements on enforcement in your own country. I have also mentioned temporary work, as have the European Parliament. There's a discussion about the timetable. Now the proposal is to provide for transposition in two years, but there is still discussion as to whether companies will have a period to apply it. Some speak of a further two years and then it becomes four years, but others want an even longer period. This will also be the subject of discussion. Mrs Kitir, you are right that this compromise can and should be a first step. You have raised a number of legitimate, important elements, such as the political importance of equal pay for equal work. It is true that we have worked out and applied a lot in the past. You ask whether the wage protection law is applicable and the answer is yes. The wage protection law is of public order and, if I am not mistaken, there is also a link with the law of 2002, so that the wage protection law applies. There is no doubt about that: the top officials in the back of the room have confirmed that there is no ambiguity about this. You also had a question about joint and several liability for wages, like others. The joint and several liability is actually used as a means of exerting pressure to prevent incorrect action. You also asked for the evaluation. We have entrusted them to the National Labour Council, which we will remind you of in response to your question, so that we can work on this. You had another question about Koelzsch. I can tell you that the directives have been sent to the inspection to use the judgment. This judgment has already been used in specific cases. We have tried to set up another legislative initiative, but the Council of State has put a stop to it. With regard to the shortening of the deadline... As regards the false self-employed and the problem of self-employed workers, I can tell you that there is a shorter 30-day response period in the regulation. The twenty-four months in Regulation No. 883 has never been questioned. The duration of the secondment depends on the employment relationship and the task to be carried out. We will inform the NAR about the evaluation and enforcement directive. Mr Gilkinet, as far as the definition of remuneration is concerned, this will not normally be the subject of future discussions. The discussion on the definition of remuneration is closed for the time being. Everything is in everything, but it's usually an achievement. We'll see. A comprehensive agreement implies that there is also a consensus on the definition of remuneration. As I have said several times, the duration is still the subject of very difficult discussions. We will have to reach a consensus on Monday and Tuesday. I have already given the answer about the non-mandatory nature of the CTC. In Belgium, the CTC is well known but not mandatory. Like you, I hope that the trialogue with the European Parliament will allow us to go further and avoid blocking. You also had a question about the legal basis of the directive. This is indeed freedom of service. Although we can regret that no legal basis is being sought in the social provisions of the Treaty, I think that does not change anything in practice. It is true that the rules must also be applicable. I have already said that we have 94 additional social inspectors. I think that's a good thing. Mrs Fonck, I have already answered about the average European duration. You also asked me for figures on the various sectors. We hold them, but they date back to 2014. We'll try to find more recent ones. You have also suggested that Mrs Thyssen should work with the European Parliament. That's right, because a solution has to be found. You also wanted to know how the contacts with the other Member States took place. We have informal relations with countries such as Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary in order to find solutions. With regard to the criteria for determining whether a posted worker is involved, the specialised directorates of the Directorate for Social Law Control and Control of Foreign Enterprises have already adapted their inspection instructions and methods. In case of doubt as to the criteria, inspectors shall send requests for information or confirmation of their suspicions to their counterparts in the country concerned, via the International Market Information System. This works well, provided that the control services of the sending country are able to provide an adequate response. This is still too often problematic in several Member States in Eastern Europe. To put it modestly, efforts still need to be made. With regard to the request for the communication of documents to the seconding employers, this practice has long been applied by the specialised inspectors of the Social Law Enforcement DG. Generally, this does not pose a problem, except from time to time for an obstacle to control, which in this case is the subject of verbalisation. Some missing documents are sometimes obtained through the International Market Information System, through a request from the inspection services in the country of dispatch. The new joint and several liability for wage debt, applied in the direct relationship between a contractor and its direct subcontractor, has already been taken over, in the construction sector, in the monitoring methodology and applied on the ground. For the Mons station, DG Social Law Control intervened twice. The presence on the ground of workers posted by a Romanian company and a Turkish company was noted. The latter was verbalized in LIMOSA. For Romanian society, a case of baraemic regulation is being processed. The new system of joint and several liability for the payment of wage debts in the construction sector, applicable to direct contractors, has not yet been implemented. Mr Van Hees, the ideas you have launched are interesting, but they are outside the framework of European negotiations. I took note of that. After having provided the figures through the secretariat, I hope I have provided all the information requested. Mr President, you are right, and I hope that I have also said this: we have to assess this problem correctly: we are being posted to Belgium, but also from Belgium to other countries. Freedom to provide services must not be forgotten either. You specifically asked what happens after twenty-four months with the notice period, for example. I talked about the exhaustive list, the negative list, and the notice periods are in there. This therefore does not apply. I think that was the most important thing and that I have already explained the other elements. It is up to you, Mr President, to see how further work will be organised. Monday and Tuesday we will have more information about where we are. The committee members may be interested in this and can then ask the real questions about the agreement. I thank everyone for their input. We will leave for Luxembourg on Monday with all that wisdom and hopefully come back with a good agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u13	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, next Tuesday afternoon there will be a round of questions. If there is an interest, questions on the subject may also be tabled for that meeting until 11 a.m. on Monday, in order to discuss this with the Minister. I'll let you know. Anyone who wants can give a brief reply. After all, it's already after 1:00 and there are no sandwiches ordered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I would like to endorse your suggestion that we continue the debate. We will see whether this can be done during a round of questions or after. I wish you a great deal of perseverance and perseverance for next Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u15	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to give you not only the strength of conviction but also more ambition for next Tuesday. I would like to make three brief comments on your reply. Firstly, I am pleased that you confirm that the wage protection law is also included in the hard core. Here's what I'd like to give you. I was present once on a day of study, on which the Director-General of the inspection services was also present. He then confirmed that the Pay Protection Act was not included in the hard core. Do you think it would be more appropriate for you to coordinate? I have noted this and it has also been confirmed by your top officials that it has been included. In this case, it would be good to streamline this with the inspection services. Secondly, on the Koelzsch judgment, you indicated that an initiative was rightly taken in this area, but it was ricocheted off by the Council of State. Minister, that must be all the more reason to take this issue to the European level. One of the reasons why it has been ricocheted off is because we wanted to settle the matter at Belgian level. I therefore continue to argue for it to be taken to the European level. Thirdly, I was surprised to hear that the twenty-four-month period for the decision of the regulation was not under discussion. After all, that was the biggest pain point. We are talking about the Posting of Workers Directive and the twenty-four-month period, which seems to be a lot. The main problem, however, lies in the twenty-four-month period in the regulation, in which social contributions are not paid. On this point, too, I call on you to cooperate with your colleague so that our country can play a leading role in reducing that time limit. It is not because it is not on the table today that we cannot make new demands in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic747x.u16	Thank you, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for coming.
