ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on 30 May last I asked your colleague Minister Koen Geens about various cells in the C wing of Tournai Prison which are heavily damaged and therefore not usable to accommodate detainees. In other words, this was one of the reasons why this wing was overcrowded by 200%! When I asked the Minister of Justice, he told me that 4 of the 10 degraded cells still had to be renovated and that the renovation had been requested from the Régie des Bâtiments. Minister, what is the status of the work? Have they been performed in the 4 degraded cells?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u2	Mr Delannois, the work in the cells is well completed. With regard to the Régie des Bâtiments, prison technicians have also closed their work and the cells have been operational since mid-July 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u4	Mr Minister, it seems that at present, an agreement is between a private company and the Régie des Bâtiments regarding a rental of a real estate complex located in Tournai, rue du Rempart and rue du Château. Could you tell me, minister, if the FPS Justice or any other administration is paying this lease to the Régie des Bâtiments as an intermediary? If so, for what annual amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u5	Dear colleague, I can confirm that the Régie des Bâtiments has entered into a lease agreement with a private company. This contract concerns the building located in Tournai, rue du Rempart and rue du Château. The lease meets the FPS Justice needs program validated jointly by the Finance Inspectors accredited to the FPS Justice and the Régie des Bâtiments. A separate part of the building is also occupied by the FPS Finances. There are currently no plans to house another occupant. The rental of the building in question is paid by the Régie des Bâtiments. Neither the Justice FPS nor any other authority pays this lease to the latter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u6	Minister, you didn't give me any money. However, in my question, I asked you what the rental amount was.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u7	This amount will be communicated to you at a later date, as it is not possible for me to answer you now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u8	Minister, please rest assured that I will come back to the matter because, in my view, this issue is anything but clear. We will also have the opportunity to revisit other related files. I have, of course, known an amount. But I wish I could compare it to yours. Indeed, I have the feeling that at some point a private company rented the building directly to the Régie for a considerable amount. And, according to my information, the company concerned has changed. I would like to understand why, when you have a golden egg chicken, you kill it, because it's relatively rare! I will therefore come back to the matter when the amount of this rental is passed on to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u9	Minister, I would like to ask you as part of the five-year control of the electrical installations of the police station, located on Rue du Becquerelle in Tournai, for which the services of the Régie des Bâtiments intervened as a project author. Until 2012, this five-year control was carried out by the authorized services of the Régie des Bâtiments. Subsequently, and in view of the fact that the Régie des Bâtiments would no longer have the approval to do so, the police zone of the Tournaisis mandated the control office AIB Vinçotte. The report was quite intriguing in the sense that it points to a serious infractional situation in terms of electrical safety, and in particular with regard to the floor boxes integrated into the chapes on the ground floor. These boxes cannot be closed because of their too weak guard. Additionally and due to the type of upper lips of floor-to-floor connection, it has been confirmed by the manufacturer that these boxes are intended for non-water-washable floor coverings while the concrete chape allows it. This criminal situation, although dating from the construction of the building, has never been noted by the services of the Régie des Bâtiments. In June 2015, the city of Tournai called by official mail the Régie des Bâtiments to obtain explanations and a reminder was also sent in November of that year. To date, no response has been received from the Régie des Bâtiments. Minister, could you please provide me with the explanation for this unrecorded offence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u10	Mr Delannois, the description of the floor boxes in the market at the time they were laid in 2005 was drawn up according to the floor covering used (chap with mirror polished, tiled or vinyl). Compliance with the technical requirements set out in the specifications was verified upon receipt and installation of the equipment. The equipment provided was found to meet the requirements of the specifications. The Directorate of "Legal Control" of the Régie des Bâtiments therefore made no comments on this subject, when it received the electrical installations of this building in 2005. Soils can, however, be cleaned by water around these small boxes of soil.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u11	Mr Minister, first of all, let me make the following point! In my view, it is abnormal to have to question a minister on this kind of question, simply because it is the only way to get an answer. The Administration sent a registered mail to the Régie des Bâtiments but received no reply from the Régie des Bâtiments. This morning, I may be bothering you for points that normally shouldn't have been discussed here. I don't know if you've seen the problem well, but I'll ask you more questions later. According to the site of the Régie des Bâtiments, which built this police station, it is a success. You've already come, but if you come back, I'll show you that success may not really be on the date. The Régie des Bâtiments is its own controller, in the sense that it is it that receives and could give approvals. Since then, the Régie des Bâtiments can no longer give approvals. Why? I don't know. I'll come back with another question. But when I see this kind of case, I'm asking myself some questions. Since the construction, the Régie des Bâtiments has said that there is no problem. After five years, we ask for a check. The Régie des Bâtiments says there's no problem. Ten years later, we have to ask for a new check. The Régie des Bâtiments can no longer do so because it no longer has the approval to do so. AIB Vinçotte arrives and identifies a series of major problems. Put yourself in our place! We wonder if everything has been done right. For now, I don't think that's the case. You're telling me the ground can be washed with water. I can assure you that the number of catches on land is still very challenging. I invite the person who wrote your answer to come to the police station as well. You'll see it's not as clear as we hear you say. Again, of course, it's not you that I'm accusing. But I can assure you that in this case, I am very sceptical.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u12	Minister, I had already had the opportunity in June 2015 to ask you about the justice of peace in Braine-l'Alleud. This justice of peace was installed in haste in 2001. I was elected mayor in 2000. Since the beginning of my Mayorate in Braine-l'Alleud, I have been drawing justice from peace in a somewhat curious way. You do not, of course, take full responsibility for this issue since this situation has existed since 2001, but it is becoming increasingly vaudevillesque. The justice of peace in Braine-l'Alleud was provisionally installed in 2001 in an inadequate building. This formula allowed for an immediate response to a new distribution of the judicial cantons. This justice of peace has operated, so far, in the building of number 92 of the rue de la Légère Water, and has been functioning for seventeen years. This house wasn't suitable. From the outset, the Régie des Bâtiments looked for a building that could fit its needs in downtown Braine-l'Alleud and found a building for sale on Rue Jules Hans. I asked you about this because, following various gesticulations, the Régie des Bâtiments has never been able to adapt to regional and federal constraints, particularly in terms of accessibility for people with reduced mobility in the development of this building. I asked you what this building was going to be like. You told me you intended to sell it. That's it: the building was sold. Since then, it has been renovated by private individuals. All this characterizes a curious management. For more than fifteen years, a building has remained in disrepair. It belonged to the Régie, dispossessed a neighborhood and finally ended up abandoned. I want to highlight this curious management, although at the time you said that it was the commune that did not want to set up the ramps. Of course, we have asked for accommodations that would match a better layout of the city's sidewalks. The Régie didn't want to hear anything and was obstinate. Finally, she did nothing and left this downtown building abandoned for many years. Today, I ask you the question in a slightly more indisposing way. Following the change of justice of the peace in the canton of Braine-l'Alleud, when Judge Collin had taken up his pension, Judge Felten took up the matter in arms, as he decided, after obtaining the opinion of the firefighters, that the standards were more in terms of safety than could be expected from a building welcoming the public every day. It has therefore issued an order regulating access to justice of the peace. It may be a way of awakening consciousness and reminding us that the provisional situation has lasted for seventeen years and that a more structural solution should now be found. In this regard, the justice of the peace, I believe with the president of the district justices of the peace, has tried to find a solution. He went to the territory of Braine-l-Alleud to find a building that could accommodate him. He found, I believe, and made you proposals to move more structurally. Minister, what are your intentions on this? Secondly, and I am not telling you in reply so that you can respond immediately, I proposed to the Régie des Bâtiments the purchase of a public building right in the city centre, which is a building of convenience since this building was home to the former music academy. It's a communal building. The operation can be precipitated if you wish. In any case, it is a building that is strategically located, which allows people with reduced mobility to be accommodated and which obviously needs to be renovated. This is why the price proposed for sale takes this into account. If you intended to buy a building, do you intend to consider the proposal of the municipality of Braine-l-l-Alleud to sell you the building of the former music academy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u13	Concerning the state of justice of the peace in Braine-l-l-Alleud, I can confirm that the study aimed at establishing a justice of peace at Jules Hans Street was suspended following the initiation of the Masterplan of the SPF Justice. Due to possible cantonal groupings, the maintenance of a peace justice system in Braine-l-Alleud had become uncertain. With regard to the security of the building, the Chief Security Officer of the FPS Justice studied the issue in consultation with local officials. The security of justices of the peace through the placement of cameras has been done on a case-by-case basis and some are actually equipped with them. The conclusion of the Chief Security Officer of the FPS Justice is that securing the building would require too much investment, knowing that it is a short-term lease to leave. The latter would have concluded with the local officials that, under these conditions, security was not desirable. Consequently, no application was submitted to the Régie des Bâtiments. As far as the fire report is concerned, some of the remarks have already been raised by the owner. The latter took the necessary steps to remove the outstanding remarks. In May 2017, following the clarifications of phase 3 of the FPS Justice Masterplan, the maintenance of a justice of peace in Braine-l-l-Alleud was confirmed. The priorities to be given for the various projects resulting from this master plan must be established in consultation with the Justice FPS. For the justice of peace of Braine-l'Alleud, since the building located on Rue Jules Hans, where it is currently housed, presents significant constraints in terms of accommodation of access to people with reduced mobility, another facility has been proposed. A feasibility study for the development of the former gendarmerie, located on Rue Pierre Flamand, has been carried out, demonstrating that it is possible to set up this complex to house the justice of peace there. At the same time, a search for a rental, a purchase of a building or land, was launched on 6 July 2017 with a request for a response for 14 August. The 17 proposals received are being reviewed and visits to the proposed buildings will take place this October. The scenarios selected will be subject to the analysis of the Strategy and Real Estate Management Unit of the Régie des Bâtiments. Unless further studies are required, a decision is expected in November 2017. Depending on the option decided internally, a more precise timing of making available may be established.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I hear your answer very well. In some respects, I appreciate it: I see that there is a dynamic and that you are trying to find a solution. I also hear that you have accepted seventeen proposals. Could I ask, through you, that the Régie des Bâtiments associate the municipal administration with this choice? So as not to fall back 17 years ago, when the purchased building was hit with constraints that never allowed the completion of the file. The commune and its administrative services are familiar with the territory and constraints of the region. They are new because of the Territorial Development Code, but we are careful to do things as correctly as possible. We could save a lot of time if the commune were involved in the review of the 17 pre-selected sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u15	As a matter of principle, I have no problem with this. But if the choice is made on one of the sites proposed by the municipality, there may be difficulties. We'll consider your request. But as a matter of principle, I agree to associate local power.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u16	Minister, I understand your thinking. But if on the seventeen proposals, one comes from the commune, sixteen will come from the Régie. We will therefore be able to examine them in a calm and objective manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u17	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, in June, the press informed us of an evaluation of the operation of the Régie des Bâtiments, which you had commissioned from a consulting firm. The objective of this analysis would be to be able to identify the key elements facilitating decision-making in terms of structural reform and increasing service performance. In this regard, I quote: "We want to modernize the state's housing stock without delay, implement telework and office sharing... The institution needs autonomous and high-flying experts." The objective of reinvigorating this historic parastatal, a manager of the state's heritage, is of course quite commendable. In addition, it is important that civil servants be effective and remain motivated in their daily work. It is also a question of well-being at work and good management of human resources, which also includes continuous training of staff to adapt to global developments in public service missions. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you provide us with an overview of the evaluation of the Redesign program? What exactly are the objectives pursued and the methodological indicators? What is planned to follow up on the findings of this X-ray? Have you already received them and, if so, could you give us an outline of them? Is a specification already in place? Is the establishment of a working group on federal parastatal reform also included in this specification? What is the status of the consultations with the management and staff of the Régie des Bâtiments in this file? How are they involved in the process? Finally, what is the expected timetable for the completion of this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u18	Mr President, as there were initially three questions attached, my answer goes beyond the questions asked by Mr Calomne. Given the importance of this file, I will give the full answer. This is an added value for the work of this committee. To begin with, I would like to clarify what was said about the Régie's officials. On 21 June 2017, the Union professionnel belge du secteur immobilier (UPSI) organised a professional lunch to which I was invited as a speaker. I gave my vision of the federal government's real estate management. At no time has my objective been to offend the employees of the Régie des Bâtiments. Sometimes you have to say things the way they are. With regard to my objectives relating to the operation of the Régie des Bâtiments and the desire to reduce the number of buildings managed by the Régie des Bâtiments, as you know, the Régie des Bâtiments manages as a real estate manager of the Federal State an impressive and varied real estate portfolio of approximately 7.5 million square meters spread throughout Belgium. As the responsible minister of the Régie des Bâtiments, I wish, first of all, that our public services and employees be housed in modern and flexible offices. In the private sector, for example, innovative ideas on office layout have been applied for several years. The Régie does the same by applying the principle of new ways of working in its buildings. As the appropriate minister of the Régie, I encourage and support this development. Secondly, I would like the means of the Régie to be streamlined and used more effectively by centralizing, for example, office spaces or by providing satellite offices to enable employees to continue working when they are on the move. Thirdly, I think we need to manage and use our buildings more wisely to lower our rental and operating costs. Office sharing and teleworking are a good example. Investments to improve the energy efficiency of buildings are another. Finally, I want the Régie des Bâtiments to be more efficient, so that the federal government's real estate portfolio is managed more dynamically. In many cases, surfaces or buildings managed by the Régie are unoccupied. However, a lack of tenure means a decrease in the value of the building and a cost to the federal government. That is why I hope that the Régie will be able to analyse more quickly the opportunity to occupy a building, to leave it, to renovate it or to sell it. It is with a view to achieving all these objectives that the Federal State has launched the Redesign project. The Deloitte consultant's mission includes a firm slice and an optional slice. The firm tranche consists of the preparation of an analysis of the existing situation. It also consists of a comparative benchmarking analysis of the six other organisations, one Belgian and five European, which have a mission similar to that of the Régie in order to identify best practices and to draw up a proposal for the reorganization of the Régie des Bâtiments. The purpose of the conditional tranche is to implement the conclusions of the first tranche within the Régie, in collaboration with the Régie. The benchmarking study shows that it took several years for the best organisations to evolve and become effective organisations. As far as the Régie des Bâtiments is concerned, drastic measures will have to be taken with regard to project management, reporting and internal control, mainly at the level of ICT applications. I am thinking of the development of analytical accounting systems, a facility management information system (FMIS) and a human resources management system (HRMS). A number of transformation priorities will also be set. These priorities will initially be implemented in the organization, in close collaboration with the consultant. The implementation of the priorities is scheduled for the end of this year and is expected to last until the middle of next year. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, from the beginning of the Redesign project, several staff members of the Régie des Bâtiments were involved in interviews, in gathering information, etc. In addition to a permanent consultation with a steering group composed of the members of the board of directors, the firm and employees of the Régie, the middle management was also kept informed of the results of the study so that the transformation of the organization is carried out by the Régie's own staff, who will at first be intensively supported by the consultant. Over time, the consultant's support will fade to leave room for the only staff of the Régie des Bâtiments. As requested, you will be provided with a list of property buildings and rented buildings. However, addresses are not mentioned, given the sensitivity of certain services hosted there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u19	Mr President, I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his answer. I note that a dynamic has been put in place and that, indeed, the public service must, at some point, reflect on its future and adapt to what is being done in the private sector by showing some form of flexibility and modernity in the premises occupied by staff. It is also a question of well-being at work. More than any other employer, the public service and the federal state must behave in an exemplary manner in terms of good management. As far as methodology is concerned, I have noted the existence of the benchmarking principle which seems to me to be positive. Indeed, even if it took time to implement them, we can use experiences abroad and draw on good practices that exist elsewhere. If I concede that this is a matter that will probably take time and that it will have to wait until measures are implemented, then a philosophy does exist, and it goes in the right direction. Finally, I am pleased that staff members are involved and involved in this reflection. If the implementation is to be quick and effective, it must be carried out by all staff members. When this type of audit and reform is carried out, it is essential that the latter be involved in the reflection, but also accompanied. Accompaniment on the occasion of the implementation of these various measures is therefore a good thing. In any event, I thank you for the answers you gave to my questions, but also to those of my colleagues. I am now waiting for the list you have promised us to be communicated to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u20	Mr President, Minister, the future of the Brussels courthouse has been the subject of a lot of questions from my colleagues and myself for some time now. I am aware that some decisions have been taken by the government with a view to the renovation and rehabilitation of the palace. Indeed, already in December 2016, the Council of Ministers adopted a note, prepared jointly by you and the Minister of Justice, on a master plan for the renovation of the Brussels courthouse. We know that this renovation programme will take a total of ten years. In the meantime, special situations have emerged. This summer, it was the president of the court of first instance who again fired the alarm bell. He had found mould from mushrooms in archives and original procedural records. These moulds present a double danger. Not only do they attack the paper records of the proceedings, they also pose a potential danger to the health of the palace staff. I mention it because, as a mayor, I also experienced this kind of situation in a communal building. I know, therefore, that we have every interest in acting in such cases. Minister, as part of the master plan for the transfer of exhibits to a more secure place, could a certain priority not be given to this transfer, given the condition of the premises which now house the archives and the procedural documents? I'm also thinking about civil status acts. Has the Régie des Bâtiments conducted any analysis of the harmfulness of mushrooms? If so, what are the results? If this analysis did not take place, why? What measures are being taken to prevent the risks associated with the presence of these fungi that cause mould? Have there been any losses of parts due to the condition of the premises? More generally, are safeguards in place for procedural files? I know that digitization is also being considered by the Department of Justice, but it's not all about tomorrow. Is there an inventory of places to be renovated without waiting for the implementation of the masterplan, to prevent the recurrence of such incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u21	Mr Maingain, with regard to your first question, a solution for the exhibits is foreseen in the coming years. Their accommodation is under study and preparatory work has begun, including the demolition of a hangar. The move of a significant part of the vital records to the Kingdom Archives is planned. Rather, it is up to the justice system to determine whether the vital records should remain within the Palais de Justice, since they depend on the court of first instance. In its decision, Justice will have to take into account the fact that accommodation at the Palais de Justice will represent a significant financial burden given the particularity of the building. Your second question concerned the analysis of the harmfulness of fungi. Sampling work took place on June 29, 2017. Following cultivation, the analysis report dated 1 August 2017 states that the level of contamination is not alarming and that there is no reason to maintain access restrictions through certain basic preventive measures such as wearing a mask. The health risk does not exist with respect to fungal contamination if basic protective measures are taken. As far as civil records are concerned, they contain mostly organic materials (paper, leather, textile) and face a major risk of contamination by biological agents. A significant part of the vital records will be moved to the Kingdom Archives. With respect to exhibits, only packaging appears to be contaminated. Spots of contamination are small and appear to affect some parts more than others. Indeed, some parts are contaminated while others in the vicinity are not. The content has always been challenged much more than the environment. There are other premises in the Palais de Justice that contain exhibits and no other premises show signs of damage. Presumably, for vital records, this would be an inadequate climate (hygrometry and temperature). For these premises, the Régie des Bâtiments has placed probes in order to carry out a study and, subsequently, to be able to consider, as far as possible, the technical solutions to make these premises fit for archiving. For the premises of the exhibits, a supplementary study requiring the opening of the packaging should be able to determine whether the contents are the source of this contamination. The relocation of exhibits is planned in the long term. Finally, the inventory of the sites to be renovated planned in our masterplan will be carried out by a surveyor's office. This study is expected to start in early 2018 and will take about a year. We await the Justice Needs Program and then conduct an inventory of the sites to be renovated, restored and renovated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u22	Minister, I take note, of course, of what will be achieved in the long run. In the immediate future, I have noted that the report prepared by an office, no doubt approved, is not alarming, except that wearing a mask is recommended when staff are required to visit sites contaminated or infected with the fungus. I suppose there was an immediate treatment of this situation. You are announcing measures in the long run, but I imagine that we have taken immediate action, as we should, in terms of compliance with the general labour protection regulation. This was not clear from your response to the immediate treatment of the premises. Should this be done at the initiative of the Régie des Bâtiments?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u23	We deal with the causes of this situation and Justice deals with the consequences. The building and the conditions of the building are our responsibility and we are taking care of it at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u24	So it's up to the justice system to know how the situation was dealt with, with the interview team that exists on site?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u25	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u26	I will therefore question the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u27	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, on the courthouse last July, an agreement was reached with the Federal Government on the appointment of an external study team for the restoration of the facades of the courthouse in Brussels. This service provider should be responsible for providing precise analysis of the quality and extent of the project work for the Poelaert Square building. At the outset, I am pleased to note that the terms of reference you announced several months ago are being respected, both in terms of deadlines and in terms of substantive commitments. With regard to this last point, I would have liked to have a number of more precise clarifications on the implementation of this dossier. First, could you tell us when and how this team will be designated? What are the main lines of strength of the mandate to be given to him and on what agenda? On the other hand, with regard to the results of the study which will be communicated to you, what is already foreseen in terms of follow-up for the overall process of this restoration?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u28	Mr Calomne, the designation of the office of specialisation in restoration will be made by open procedure. The market will be launched this month again. The designation of the study office could still take place at the end of this year or the beginning of next year. Given the scope of the studies and the work, it has been planned to divide the restoration of the facades of the Brussels courthouse into four distinct phases and sections. The contract for the study and restoration of the facades of the palace consists of one firm slice and three conditional slices. The first slice, i.e. the firm slice of the studies, concerns studies for the restoration of the facades of the palace located on the side of Poelaert Square. These studies are expected to begin in early 2018. Once the restoration studies for the first tranche have been completed, the work concerned can be completed and is expected to be completed by 2021. That's for the Poelaert facade! After the successful completion of the first tranche (studies and works), we will start one after the other the various conditional portions of the studies to complete all the restoration work of the facades by the end of 2026.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u29	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for these specific answers to this timetable. It is true that this is a subject on which we have already come back several times here. You have made commitments on several occasions. It is reassuring and encouraging to see that they are respected, including timing, because it can sometimes take time. You have already said it, but I repeat it, I think it is indeed a good thing that we start with the first facade, the most visible because I think that in public opinion it will show in a visible and symbolic way that the file is moving forward. I hope we can see part of the courthouse in 2021 without scaffolding. It will be to mark a white stone after more than thirty years scaffolding. I think since I was born, I've never seen the courthouse without scaffolding. It will also be a great first for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u30	Minister, on April 30, 2017, the offer to sell the abbey of Florival, a former centre of civil protection and therefore owned by the federal state, was closed. This building was actually on the market since last November at the announced price of €3,750,000. The offer was initially closed on March 31, but was extended until April 30. Unfortunately, the municipal authorities do not have sufficient resources to consider acquiring this building and developing a project that is useful to the public, but its situation and future is obviously of interest to us. So my questions are simple. Have you received any offers? If so, did you find an offer sufficiently interesting and do you intend to accept it? If not, what are you going to do? Are you considering extending the offer to sell? Are you planning to review the price? I have indeed received some people who might have an interest in this building, but not at the price requested by the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u31	No offers have been submitted. There were four visits and potential amateurs did not follow up. Since the property is not useful for hosting federal utilities, selling is the only option. As a result, the property will be placed on the market again. A price review may be considered, but such an option is not on the agenda after only six months of sale. At some point, a new estimate will be decided by the purchasing committee, but for the time being the price level will be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u32	Thank you for your answer. I'm not surprised there's no offer. I do not know on what basis the acquisition committee evaluated the price of the building. It is a classified building with a classified park. The use of the good in the Community area is therefore not obvious and at that price, I am not surprised that there is no offer. But there is certainly potential for this building. So I'm still interested in what's going to happen to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u33	Minister, a question-and-answer session about the Régie des Bâtiments without a question about Haren Prison would not meet your expectations or mine. There's a new element. I do not allow myself to repeat myself systematically. I try every time to bring a new element to the questions on this issue, which we are following very closely. Last July 31st was published in the Belgian Moniteur a royal decree, countersigned by you, concerning the granting of a State guarantee to the Régie des Bâtiments for the project of construction DBFM (design, build, finance, maintain) of the new prison of Haren. Article 1 of the decree stipulates that the member of the government competent for the Régie des Bâtiments is authorized to grant, in accordance with the conditions and arrangements laid down in this decree, the State guarantee in order to guarantee the observance by the Régie des Bâtiments of all its payment obligations under the public contract "DBFM Design, construction, financing and maintenance of a new prison complex" which it assumes or will assume under the DBFM contract. This contract specifies the conditions of the call for State guarantee. Minister, is there a contract? We have been asking this question for almost two years now. If there is, could you provide us with a copy of the DBFM contract mentioned in the Royal Order? If the contract has not yet been drafted or signed, particularly as a result of pending appeals against the project, when will this be the case? Does that make sense to provide for a royal decree on a contract that does not exist? Article 4 of the Royal Decree specifies that the State guarantee may be used as soon as the Régie des Bâtiments does not pay, within the time limits fixed by contract, the sums due to it in fulfilment of the DBFM contract. Are there any other conditions attached to the appeal of this guarantee? Is a maximum intervention ceiling set? Is the use of a royal decree and the State guarantee a standard procedure for all other existing DBFM installations for the construction of prisons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u34	Mr Vanden Burre, on May 5, 2017, the Régie des Bâtiments handed over to the House of Representatives' Justice Committee the draft DBFM contract, along with other documents that had also been requested. The contract for the DBFM market, relating to the construction of a new prison in Haren, will be definitively signed when pending appeals against permits are rejected and the financing part is finalized. At best, this could happen at the end of the year. Another condition for the contract to be signed is that the payment obligations of the Régie des Bâtiments are guaranteed by the Belgian State. It was therefore necessary to publish the royal decree before the contract was signed. With regard to section 4 of the Royal Decree, I can confirm that there are no other conditions attached to the appeal. It is important to note, however, that it relates only to the payment obligations of the payer to the claimant under the DBFM contract. For the surplus, no maximum intervention ceiling is set. The procedure followed in this case is indeed the common procedure which was used for all prisons built through DBFM contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. I imagine the contract is related to the appeals under review. We will necessarily come back to the issue. As long as we do not have the elements, and therefore the signed contract, we will not be able to complete this dossier. After the next episode, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic745x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
