ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we begin our work in view of the tight timetable and many questions on the agenda. The next item is the oral questions to the Prime Minister. A number of questions from last week were added to the agenda. Interpellation No. 162 by Mrs Pas was withdrawn. As Mrs Onkelinx cannot be present, her question No. 16281 converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, I wish to have a debate with you on our policy towards the United States. As you know, a major change took place at the top of the US state. President Trump has announced a staggering increase in military spending, in the order of 54 billion. The US military budget therefore amounts to $600 billion a year. The twelve countries that follow the United States in terms of military spending do not come together to this amount. This was described by Pascal Boniface, geopolitologist and director of the Institute of International Relations, as "a worrying intensification of Trump's arms race". He also states that "the planned increase in the US military budget is almost equivalent to the current Russian budget". So there's something to worry about. This increase will be at the expense of the environment budget, international aid and social expenditure. A whole programme of austerity and a climate of war! This increase will further increase the pressure on NATO countries - including Belgium - to increase their budget rapidly to 2% of their GDP. Mike Pence, Vice-President of the United States, explained during his visit to Brussels that Trump was waiting for our response by the end of 2017. Two percent of GDP, that would mean, in addition to the 15 billion you want to commit the next thirty years for the purchase of new fighter aircraft, 5 billion more annually for the Belgian budget, according to the calculations of the daily De Tijd. Five billion which would no longer be spent on health, education and pensions. There is also a growing danger of being trained in military adventures. On 22 February, my college Marco Van Hees had already questioned Minister Vandeput both on Trump's choice and on the request to increase our budget. The minister, who was rather enthusiastic about the VRT news on February 16, did not really answer that question. He simply stated that he was "intimately convinced that security in Belgium can be improved by acting abroad where the problems arise and have their origin". This can, of course, be interpreted as a positive signal to American demands for more investment in NATO and in foreign interventions. Prime Minister, how do you react to the American government's decision to increase the military budget historically? Do you not see there the dangers of this arms race and this war policy that are likely to lead the world to disaster? What will be the Belgian government's reaction to this American demand to increase military budgets, particularly within the NATO framework? Trump's arrival in Belgium was announced on 24 or 25 May for the inauguration of NATO's new headquarters. What is your reaction to his coming? What will be your position? Are you going to make a statement on this imminent danger of war following this increase in US military budgets and this request to Belgium to follow this arms race by doubling our military budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u3	Mr President, honourable Member, in terms of retroacts, during the previous Parliament, on the occasion of the Wales Summit, the Heads of State and Government had made two commitments: to stop the constant cuts in military spending in recent years, especially for European countries; to gradually raise the defence budget to 2% of GDP by 2020; and to set aside 20% of the defence budget for new acquisitions. Belgium, at the time, did not dispute these conclusions, which were recalled at the Warsaw Summit last summer. On the occasion of the European Council in December 2016, the 28 European countries recalled this commitment to be more mobilised, to take more responsibility for security issues. For those Member States that are also members of NATO, this is in line with NATO's defence expenditure guidelines. In saying these words, I repeat the conclusions of the European Council. It is therefore not a question of finding that there is an evolution at the departure of the United States in the field of defence, since in Europe too, for some time now, there has been a broad awareness of the need to mobilise more resources for our own security. With regard to Belgium, I would remind you that we have given the government the strategic vision of the Minister of Defence; we have launched an investment strategy and, as you mentioned, we formally launched a significant step a few days ago in the renewal of the fighter aircraft. Within NATO, the Americans - already under the previous administration - but also the British, the Germans and the French are eager to maintain some form of pressure on the other allies in order to take action in terms of commitments in the field of defence. This is because NATO wants to remain operational in the long term, when budgetary resources have actually declined and, at the same time, the demand for security is growing, not just in Europe. What are we going to do? We will continue to work within the North Atlantic Council on how to address the work on the issue of burden sharing and in particular on the concept of a national monitoring plan for the implementation of defence investment pleedges, initiated by the NATO General Secretariat. Our approach is that the debate must go beyond the question of 2% of GDP and, for example, take into account capacity-building targets, also operational contributions. Within the federal government, technical meetings must allow, in the short term, a precise analysis of the various requests of the Atlantic Alliance, whether they relate to defence spending or to the Nato Defense Planning Process, which determines the capabilities desired for our country. We have taken a step forward with the strategic vision and it is certain that, on these issues, we must have a multi-year vision, not only in the short but also in the medium and long term. With regard to the election of Donald Trump, I have had the opportunity to respond in detail in this committee, following a debate in the European Parliament. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to plead both for composure, serenity, but also for clarity in defence. I observe, Mr Hedebouw, that we are in a world in which there is serious insecurity, a serious instability directly on the southern borders of Europe, in Iraq, Libya and Syria, for example. The dialogue with Russia is, to say the least, complex, with territorial integrity that has not been respected at the eastern borders of Europe. There is indeed, with this new election in the United States but perhaps also with the Brexit referendum, the need for Europeans - that is my conviction at least - to be much more coordinated on defence issues, not defence in an approach, as you seem to be implying, of a war-like nature, but, on the contrary, defence capabilities in order to be able to fuel diplomatic political dialogue and that, as much as possible in a logic of peace, security and stability.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u4	Prime Minister, as I understand it, you're going to follow Donald Trump. It's kind of the synthesis. I had hoped that with Donald Trump coming to power, there would have been a reflection not to follow him blindly, precisely at the NATO level. That's the question. We know that NATO is under American domination, that the United States is strategically leading this organization, and here we are completely linked to Mr Trump's foreign military policy: he can, at any time in his military adventures, impose this right of solidarity on all countries in this NATO logic. I expected the Belgian government to step back and decide not to follow it. In addition, Prime Minister, so far I had the impression that your various ministers, especially Mr Vandeput, were staying a little in the middle of the ford, but you confirm Belgium's decision to increase the budget to 2% of GDP, that is to say EUR 5 billion that can be invested in defence. Within which time will this budgetary vote take place? Is that in the short term? Mr Trump seems to be asking for it to be really short-term. Do you confirm that? You say that, politically, the decision is made today. I had the impression that there was still a little bit of critical thinking about this 2%, but you are confirming today that Belgium has decided 2%, namely EUR 5 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u5	Mr. Hedebouw, you're trying to put things in my mouth that I didn't say. I just wanted to point out that, during the previous parliamentary term, at the Wales Summit, a commitment had been made by the various Member States within NATO to define this 2% trajectory. So it was an objective. When and at what pace? This is obviously a fundamental question. On this subject, there will be no answer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u6	What is new since that summit is that Mr Trump has asked not for a decision in the near or distant future but for a decision in the present. I do not feel here today a will to get out of this trajectory. Personally, and with my group, I would be very interested in knowing the trajectory of this decision. Five billion is still nothing in the budget. We know that budgets are difficult. Finally, I come to the question of the dangers of war on the southern borders, on which we will probably not agree. The United States is involved and even responsible for the chaos that exists. It is necessary to conduct a geostrategic reflection when we see how any form of state in Iraq has been razed and what still existed as a form of state in Afghanistan. We also intervened in Libya. I recognize that, instead, our French and British colleagues were at the forefront. What is the record of the chaos created in all these regions? A distance from the warrior language adopted today by the United States would, in my view, be a wise, geostrategic decision that would put Belgium on the map of peace, on the map of a multipolar world and not on a unipolar world like Trump is pushing it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u7	Mrs. Grovonius, Mr. Hedebouw, Mr. De Vriendt informs me that his train is late and will arrive shortly. Do we already start with the attached question or rather with another question from Mr. Hedebouw?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u8	I'll wait for him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u9	Mr President, as far as I am concerned, there is total solidarity with the rail users whose train is lagging behind. So I'm happy to give these minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u10	Prime Minister, I have already spoken about Mrs Demir. My curiosity prompted me to know what your opinion was, since you are still the head of the government team. Do you share the fervour of Mrs Demir's remarks against Unia? I will therefore read you the question that I introduced into Vondel's language. Mr Prime Minister, shortly after her appointment as Secretary of State, Mrs Demir launched an attack on Unia. Unia is an independent public institution that combats discrimination and promotes equal opportunities. The Centre wants everyone to be able to participate in all social areas, without discrimination or exclusion. At the heart of the operation of Unia is a hotline of discrimination. Secretary of State Demir blamed Unia and I quote her: 'to be a centre of polarization which wants to send a political message about integration.' For example, Unia would have been obsessed with the battle against the Sinterklaas Festival. Later, the Secretary of State had to admit that Unia hadn't said anything about it since 2014. The N-VA, like the Flemish Interest, has been advocating the abolition of the inter-federal centre for decades. I quote: "Unia only stands up for people with a migration background." However, a study by Unia on discrimination at work and in education also shows that there have never been so many complaints against age discrimination, especially in the workplace, disability and sexual orientation than in 2016. However, discrimination based on racial criteria is most common. When it appeared after the weekend that Mrs Demir's claims were wrong, she stated that Unia did not disclose her study until after her false statements. However, the study was already in all the newspapers days before. The claim that Unia is only there for people with a migration background is therefore wrong in all respects. Prime Minister, do you acknowledge that Secretary of State Demir's allegations about Unia were based on incorrect information? How did you react to the polemics that arose within the government? What is the government's current position on Unia? In what sense is that position different from the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u11	Mr President, I plead in this area for a dialogue without any taboos. The Secretary of State told you this herself in plenary session. Moreover, the very name of Unia marks its will to be part of this spirit of dialogue and restoration of the social bond. The mission of this organization is to promote equal and inclusive participation of everyone, regardless of their situation, in all sectors of society. As she has made clear to you in plenary, Mrs Demir fully supports this will. This is obviously essential. I do not intend to fuel a war of numbers and, therefore, to maintain a polemic. The Secretary of State told you that it was based on the 2015 report. The most important thing is to ensure the smooth functioning of Unia and to maintain the neutrality and impartiality of the Inter-federal Centre. Studies were commissioned in this regard, some of which were commissioned by Unia. I refer you in particular to the one produced by the Indiville office. I note with you that some time ago, the Jewish community showed itself quite strongly by expressing criticism of a lack of neutrality and equal treatment. Meetings have been scheduled between the Jewish community and representatives of Unia. And I look forward to it, hoping that it will be fruitful and constructive. As Prime Minister, I call for calm and dialogue. I hope that Unia will offer guarantees of neutrality and impartiality in order to fulfil its tasks calmly. It is in this way that the government will consider relations with the Centre. To be complete, I would point out that the cooperation agreement runs until 2019. At this stage, the government agreement does not provide for a review of the status of Unia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u12	Prime Minister, we did not have to interpret the Secretary of State's response in the same way in plenary. Indeed, it had added a small layer in terms of polarization. It seems to me that we had already seen better to calm the ardour of some. In addition, with regard to the report to which you refer, she had tried to challenge the analysis by linguistic role. She argued that a majority came from the Francophone side. However, three pages later, the linguistic breakdown was present. This shows that the N-VA defends an agenda to split Unia between a Flemish wing and another Francophone. That's unfortunate. For your part, you support in some way the questioning of Unia's neutrality, which is the only forum to combat discrimination in our country. I would point out that many international reports indicate that Belgium is one of the most discriminatory countries, whether in terms of employment or housing. By calling into question the neutrality of the body which must be able to identify such discrimination on an ethnic basis, on the basis of age or sexual orientation, you do not give a very positive signal. Prime Minister, please move away from the provocative attitudes of the N-VA! You can see that she is promoting an agenda to polarize our society. That's not necessary. Take a step back and a step back! Make it clear that Mrs Demir must stop provoking public opinion on this subject. You are well aware that the N-VA is trying to divert attention from the fact that it has become a completely traditional party in the field of post-jespolitik. In the Council of Ministers, you must feel their nervousness. Please, Prime Minister, do not help them distract the attention of the citizens! Let them go to their jobs, but don't assume this kind of position!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u13	Mr President, I apologize to my colleague Marco Van Hees. I introduced my question, but we divide the committees in a flexible way. We are organizing the work together, the work that can be done, indeed, Prime Minister. We hope that we will be a little more numerous in 2019 so that we can better distribute the costs. We're rolling! Prime Minister, Israel announced on January 31 the construction of 3,000 new settlements in the occupied West Bank, the fourth such announcement in less than two weeks since the inauguration of US President Donald Trump. This is a further pledge to the supporters of settlement, at a time when the Israeli authorities seem to have no choice but to apply an Israeli court order and demolish the settlement of Amona. This is the fourth announcement of its kind in a short time. Since 20 January and the swearing-in of Trump, Israel has given its final green light to the construction of 566 housing units in three settlements in occupied and annexed East Jerusalem, and announced the construction of 2,502 housing units in the West Bank. About a month ago, the Israeli municipality of Jerusalem gave its final agreement to 153 new housing units. Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu said, "We are building and we will continue to build." He added that Donald Trump's presidency was "a great chance." During your stay, the Israeli Parliament again sent a signal to the entire international community by passing a law regularizing dozens of settlements previously considered "wild" by the State of Israel. All this takes place again in complete and flagrant violation of international law. Resolution 2334, which was again voted on at the United Nations on 23 December, once again urges Israel "to cease immediately and completely all settlement activity in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem". At the time, the Israeli government had warned not only that it would not comply with that resolution, but also that it would punish all those who had voted for the text. He already ordered "a series of diplomatic measures" against New Zealand and Senegal, which had obtained a vote at the United Nations. For the first time in the history of the United Nations, an official report, published on his behalf, also shows that Israel is subjecting the Palestinians to an apartheid regime. This document, unveiled on Wednesday 15 March in Beirut, was issued by the Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia, one of the United Nations regional commissions responsible for economic and social issues in the Arab world. This report by Richard Falk, professor at Princetown University and former UN rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the occupied territories, and Virginia Tilley, professor at the University of Illinois, clearly states that Israel has established "an apartheid regime that systematically institutionalizes racial oppression and the domination of the Palestinian people as a whole, which has been defined by international anti-apartheid conventions since 1973." Since then, the report has been subjected to intense diplomatic pressure to withdraw it. Prime Minister, I will be a little shorter and ask the questions that concern you directly from the outset. Following your visit, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu denounced the anti-Israeli policy on your part, in fact you visited two associations defending, in fact, international law. Who exactly did you meet on the spot in Israel? What was the content of these meetings? Can you provide us with a list of these meetings on paper? In the face of these four new announcements of flagrant violations of international law, do you not consider that it is time to take concrete action against Israel? By the end of February, Israel and the European Union had announced their willingness to convene an assembly of the European Union-Israel Association Council, a bilateral forum at ministerial level. I quote: "This is an extremely positive development that will allow Israel and the European Union to deepen their relations on many issues," declared Emmanuel Nahshon, Israeli Foreign Minister. This has been postponed since then. Do you think it is appropriate, Prime Minister, to deepen relations in the current context? What do you think of the Trump administration's willingness to transfer its embassy to Jerusalem? An international campaign has also been launched against the LAW-TRAIN project of the partnership which exists, inter alia, between Belgium, the academic institutions and the Israeli security services. What do you think of this project? Do you intend to respond positively to the demand to put an end to it, in order to avoid thereby supporting the policy of colonization and apartheid of the State of Israel?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am not going to repeat the list of too many violations of human rights and international law committed by the State of Israel, whether it is the question of colonization, administrative imprisonments, including minors – I am passing on, and the best. We have already had several exchanges on this subject, including on the eve of your mission to Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories from 5 to 10 February, in which my colleague Mr Stéphane Crusnière participated. More specifically, I wanted to discuss the comments made following your meeting with two well-known organisations: B'Tselem and Breaking the Silence. In fact, we received the first in the Belgian Federal Parliament. You have met with these Israeli human rights associations, which have their headquarters in Jerusalem. Following this meeting, we know that your Israeli counterpart, Benjamin Netanyahu, instructed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to express its reprobation to the Belgian Embassy in Israel. I quote: "In Israel, we seriously consider the meeting of the Belgian Prime Minister with the leaders of Breaking the Silence and B'Tselem during his stay in Israel." Prime Minister, I would like to ask you specifically about this statement. What has been your concrete response to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u15	Prime Minister, it was a very moving mission to Israel. We have been able to read a lot of things about it in the media. I would like to ask you what are the most important conclusions of that mission to Israel. What are your views on the settlement policy of the current Israeli government? What is your position on the ground? What consequences do you have for Israel's constant disregard of European positions in this matter? How do you assess the absence of Palestinian elections? This is an obstacle to the peace process, to the democratic process and to the dialogue in the region and to the reports of corruption in the Palestinian Authority. To what extent do you intend to comply with the resolution adopted by the Court on Belgium's support for a resumption of the peace process in the Middle East and, more specifically, the deepening and implementation of the policy of differentiation? That differentiation policy is becoming a bit of the order of the day within the European Union, but it still needs to be implemented, implemented and implemented. What are your views on the repressive and often arbitrary behaviour of the Israeli security apparatus towards Palestinian citizens? The examples of disproportionate police and military intervention become innumerable. This creates distressing situations for those involved, often including minors, for long detention periods without trial, something that we are not used to in our rule of law. It also causes growing frustration among the Palestinian population. This doesn't bring a peaceful climate any closer. What consequences do you have? The longer we watch Israel's many violations of international law, the more unsafe and unstable the situation in the Middle East and with us. I would ask you to make Belgium a pioneer, including within the European Union. I have a second set of questions about the visit to Hebron. During your visit to Israel and Palestine, a visit to Hebron was originally planned. Together with representatives of the UN and of the NGO Youth Against Settlements, you would visit the old town and a Belgian-funded school. However, that visit was cancelled at the eleventh hour. Who made the decision not to let the visit go on and why? If the Israeli authorities are responsible for the cancellation of the visit, how did you react? In conclusion, I would like to say that your visit to a number of Israeli human rights organisations, Mr Tselem, Breaking The Silence, is very positive. These are human rights organisations that are internationally valued for the important but also constructive role they continue to play in the political process and the peace process. It is very good that you kept that balance in the visits you made there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did, with a delegation of parliamentarians, carry out a mission to Israel and Palestine a few weeks ago. I wanted this mission to be balanced. I have had political contacts, meetings with civil society on both the Israeli and Palestinian sides. In Palestine, we had the opportunity to visit development projects, at the initiative of Belgian technical cooperation, in the field of training. On the Israeli side, an economic development project in connection with Liège airport was visited by the delegation. That was the first point I wanted to mention. Secondly, I had the opportunity, together with the parliamentary delegation, to meet with two NGOs, Breaking the Silence and B'Tselem. For me, this meeting had essentially an informative vocation. I believe that as a political leader, in the context of such a mission, it is legitimate to meet with the various actors in order to form the most nuanced opinion possible of the situation on the spot. A few more important points. Firstly, during the first part of our visit we were there just before the Knesset vote on a law on the regularization of settlements. I have spoken a clear language there, just as Europe does. I said that we condemn this decision at the political level. I have formulated this in clear terms. I also had an almost two-hour meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. This intense, open and frank exchange was an opportunity to say certain things with clarity. In particular, I was struck by the question of a two-State solution. Ambiguities have been felt for some time now, especially since Donald Trump's election in the United States, in the interpretation of it by the Israeli government, or part of the government. We have been able to deepen this issue and identify the differences in interpretation of what the two-State solution means for the Israeli side and the Palestinian side. We have also made extensive reference to the issue of refugees and the right of return and the interpretation of both sides. The status of Jerusalem was also widely discussed. As I said, I repeat: Belgium traditionally has good political and diplomatic relations with both Israel and the Palestinian Authority. I think that gives us the ability to speak frankly both to the Palestinian Authority and to the Israeli government, which I have not failed to do. With regard to Palestine, we do believe that all efforts must continue to be encouraged to achieve greater Palestinian unity, which will strengthen the capacity to advance and unblock the peace process. Elections are scheduled. The question was whether they could also be held in the Gaza Strip, which is an important point to follow. I have not failed to say clearly that no act of violence can be tolerated, wherever it comes from; and to recall that the right to security of Israel and the recognition of Israel are, for us, extremely important. I had the opportunity to address issues that Parliament had raised with me, such as the administrative arrests of minors, and to express our disapproval of this type of approach. With regard to the initial planned visit to Hebron, it was mainly security considerations that led to its deprogramming. Indeed, the vote on colonization by the Knesset had taken place a few hours earlier. The security services therefore considered that there were insufficient guarantees to take a parliamentary and ministerial delegation to Hebron. To be complete, I must say that all these security issues were raised both by the Israeli side and by the Palestinian side, which also shared the analysis on the security assessment. These are the few things I wanted to say! The Belgian Government remains very determined to make every effort and to support all efforts to ensure that the European Union plays a more committed role in this peace process. In another question this morning, I will probably answer about the meeting I had with Mike Pence. It was also one of the very important points between the United States and Belgium What is the way in which we will approach this situation between Israel and Palestine in the coming months and years? We believe that it is extremely important to have clear language. Finally, the reactions after my meeting with the two NGOs in question, the reactions of the first Netanyahu, I consider it to be my right and duty, when I am abroad, when I have the opportunity, to meet with the various actors, including civil society actors. Also, these statements by Benjamin Netanyahu did not make much impression on me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u17	Prime Minister, you speak of ambiguity about the Israeli side's interpretation of, in particular, the right of return of refugees. But there is no ambiguity! I will simply say that there is no right of return. And when we announce that we want to build 2,502 housing units in the colonies, what more is needed to make it clear that there is no ambiguity at all? I think the Israeli side is very offensive for now. It would be wise to discuss with the government this UN report, which clearly identifies an apartheid problem in Israel. Today, it is easy to say, now that apartheid has been abolished in South Africa: "All support Nelson Mandela, it was necessary to support South Africa of resistance". We're rewriting the story a little bit. The question is what the Western governments did in the 1970s and 1980s to support the African people in their fight against apartheid. That is the question. If international sanctions had not been imposed on apartheid South Africa, there would still be an apartheid regime in South Africa. The question for Israel today is the same. The United Nations report makes it clear that an apartheid policy is being pursued there. You mustn't turn around the pot. So, yes or no, are we going to impose sanctions on Israel? There, I do not understand this double standard, the ease with which our diplomacy, our defence, which is rather an attack, will intervene in many other countries, but when it comes to Israel.... We even voted a resolution in parliament to say...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u18	Mr Hedebouw, you want to start the war with Israel, if I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u19	No way! I just asked for sanctions!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u20	What is the consistency between the previous question and that question to understand the reasoning?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u21	Do you think taking sanctions against Israel means war? Are you afraid of Israel? Is that your question? I am talking here about sanctions, like the economic sanctions we imposed against South Africa at the time of apartheid. The majority had a resolution passed in parliament, according to which everything was permitted against them except sanctions. You think the Israeli government is going to change its mind, because you went to tell them that what they're doing right now is not right? You have to be so unserious, Prime Minister! Today we are talking about taking action against Israel. And I think that the UN reports are quite clear in this respect: we must fight apartheid not only in words but also in actions!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u22	Prime Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I too would like to pay tribute to the mission that has been carried out. Indeed, you have at least had the merit of meeting with these organizations that have been able to inform you fully about the situation. Nevertheless, I still have some reservations about this "balanced" qualifier when, in a given situation, we seek to maintain balanced positions, because I tend to consider that we are currently not in a balanced situation, but on the contrary, in a situation where a people is under occupation and clearly in a situation of apartheid. It is therefore important to be careful not to always seek a balance but to be able to assert certain clear positions in this field. And when I hear in your mouth such considerations as Israel's right to security or Israel's recognition as an absolute prerequisite for any form of negotiation or search for a solution that could be a peace situation in the region, this speech is very often heard in the head of the Israeli authorities, including the question of Israel's recognition. I would like to reiterate that this recognition of Israel by Palestine has long been made. Now the whole question is to recognize Israel as a Jewish state. In this regard, the Israeli authority plays a very regular role in relation to this issue. I believe that we must ensure that we are able to move out of this constant will to seek that balance. We are facing a situation that is not at all balanced. In this situation of impunity - as is evident from Netanyahu's remarks and the arrogance sometimes shown by the Israeli authorities - we should from time to time be more strict and indeed consider forms of economic sanctions, which could put pressure on this Israeli Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u23	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Stability and peace in Israel and Palestine are also in our interests and in the interests of Europe. So we need to put pressure on Israel, for example, so that they respect international law. However, nothing is happening. You've been to Tselem and Breaking The Silence, and that's good. You stuck your neck out with that. You did it. At European level, the Association Council with Israel has been postponed. That's good. There is also a labelling directive for products from an illegal settlement. That's good, too. Only, those things that have happened have little or no impact on Israel's behaviour. So we need to think, and this is not about starting a war with Israel, we will lose that war, by the way, about what pressure we can possibly put on Israel, not only at European level but also from Belgium. Then there is the policy of differentiation. We have adopted a resolution in the Chamber. As an opposition group, we supported it. We still hope that we have acted wisely. However, there is a problem with EU Law Train when it comes to differentiation policies. Belgium is linked to that European project through the FPS Justice. We're working with the Israeli police. The headquarters of the Israeli police are in occupied territory, in the West Bank. In other words, I believe that our involvement in EU Law Train is not in line with the differentiation policy that the European Union is also pushing forward. A country like Portugal has left EU Law Train and I believe that Belgium should do the same. Furthermore, we must try to apply the labelling directive that exists at European level to the highest possible extent in our own country. Our position is that we should go further, that we should ban the import of products from illegal settlements. I would just like to say that there are also steps or steps that can be taken bilaterally, from Belgium, to increase pressure on Israel, just as we must increase pressure on the Palestinian Authority. The reports of corruption in the Palestinian Authority are legion. There too, we must act as a good broker, as a balanced partner in dialogue with both sides of the conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the G10 Finance Ministers' meeting last night to finally implement the Financial Transaction Tax (FTT). The aim of the meeting was, in principle, to resolve Belgian and Slovak concerns about the impact of the future tax on financial transactions, in particular on pension funds. If I am not mistaken, three options were put on the table to satisfy those two countries that asked for pension funds to be protected from the said tax. The first option is to tax these funds with the possibility for countries to grant compensation to individuals whose pensions would be subject to taxation. The second option is to exempt the pension fund. The third is to grant a pass-right to pension funds and life insurance. As you mentioned in the plenary session, another fear of Belgium relates to the highly volatile environment of the international economy. In any case, in this case, Belgium seems to be less and less inclined to find solutions, multiplying fears rather than trying to reach an agreement. Prime Minister, last January, you answered my question in plenary. You were much more optimistic then your Finance Minister about the chances of reaching an agreement. In fact, a few weeks later, the same minister defended a different Belgian position by setting out two main fears of Belgium - as mentioned - which could very well destroy any chance of agreement, an attitude which we have widely condemned. How do you explain the government's different positions on this issue? Can you explain to me the position that your minister defended at this meeting? What are the first conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, it has been four years since negotiations on the imposition of a financial transaction tax (FTT) began with ten European countries, including Belgium. The current goal is to provide for a mini levy on each transaction, with a 0.1% tax on share transactions. It seems that this is already too much for our country! Our government wants to prevent this from affecting pension funds and insurance and, apparently, all the arguments are good for trying to torpedo it. The government is now talking about "negative effects on the economy". The introduction of the Tobin tax depends first and foremost on a question of "political will" believes, for its part, the CNCD-11.11.11, which called on Belgium to "stop playing the watch" and brought together close to non-ante NGOs, trade unions and associations to take part in a European-wide action called "the clock turns". This platform calculated that one day without Tobin tax costs the public finances of the ten countries EUR 60 million, that one hour of delay costs EUR 2.5 million, and that one minute costs EUR 40,000. Prime Minister, in view of our budgetary problems, what are we waiting for to impose this Tobin tax? On March 20, 2017, an important meeting was held at this level. It would appear that Belgium is the main blocking country. Prime Minister, what were the results of the negotiations? Are there any progress at all? Is there a deal? On what basis does the Minister of Finance put forward the idea of a negative effect on the economy? This is all the more important because we know the minister's estimates, particularly for our budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u26	Mr President, this debate will eventually become a striped record! Some members of the opposition have repeatedly said that it is Belgium that is blocking within the group that has decided to set up enhanced cooperation, but that is not the reality! We have an extremely clear line, Mr Crusnière. I have told Parliament several times but you can choose not to hear the message that is given. We have a government agreement that is very clear on this: we will continue to work constructively to try to implement this tax on financial transactions. The government agreement, fortunately nuanced, provides that we will not introduce a tax that would have a perverse effect on the real economy and on employment as we fight to create it. As many of us as possible and as many as a significant number of countries will support this idea, at best it will be. For the moment, I would like to remind you once again that although Belgium is leaving the discussion, which is not on the agenda, I note that the others have not yet agreed. This shows that it is not Belgium that blocks. Indeed, a number of countries are experiencing difficulties, as Mr Crusnière mentioned, in dealing with pension funds and the insurance sector. Our government agreement specifically addressed our concern on this issue and stipulated that we must ensure that we do not cause perverse effects on this issue. I confirm that the meeting that took place yesterday again highlighted this difficulty in finding satisfactory solutions on the issue of insurance and pension funds. This is not only a Belgian concern, as you always seem to indicate, but Slovenia, Slovakia and other countries also share it. On the other hand, to be quite complete, this is not the first time this message has been given, but yesterday it was sent around the table: some countries expressed their concern, given the decision in connection with Brexit, in the continuation of the debate. It was not Belgium that said that, but other European countries around the table. This is the conclusion of yesterday's meeting, at which I was not present. The Minister of Finance took care of it as she reports to Ecofin. There will be a meeting again in May. Until then, we have the will to continue working within the G10 to try to find satisfactory solutions on the various topics. I persist and sign: we support the idea of continuing to make progress in order to succeed in implementing such taxation, but we are not prepared to do so by playing with the sorcerer apprentices and by collecting, in the end, a negative addition for the real economy in Belgium. That is the approach we are taking. On this subject, with common sense, everyone should support this objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u27	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as the role of Belgium in these negotiations is concerned, you say that we, the opposition parties, are the only ones who say that Belgium tends to put a brake on the negotiations. I would like to remind you that we are not the only ones who say so. We were echoed by a director of the European Union's finance departments, whose name I forget, who had come to talk to us in the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs about the progress of these negotiations. She told us that Belgium's position had changed. Pierre Moscovici, when he came to this Parliament at the meeting of the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs, said exactly the same thing. I'm talking about two speeches. Indeed, you have your speech, which you have repeated here: you are in favour, you stand behind the government agreement, but your Finance Minister does not always hold the same speech, and you know that. As far as the real economy is concerned, I would like to point out that, in recent years, there have been some calmings at technical meetings. The Minister of Finance could confirm that. I hear there are ongoing negotiations on pension funds. I repeat that we are in favour of the rapid introduction of this tax on financial transactions. I understand that Brexit is invoked as a pretext, not by Belgium - I grant it to you - but by Germany. One layer is added each time in these negotiations. That's why we're worried. We call for the rapid entry into force of a TTF. I agree with you: the ideal is for it to be applied by the largest number of countries. However, the impetus can be given by the states that are gathered around the table. I therefore call on your Government to continue to advocate for its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u28	Mr Prime Minister, you completely deny that Belgium is behind a blockage, while several ministers from other countries refer to Belgium, but also Slovakia, as players in the negotiations. Mr Schäuble, the German Finance Minister, noted that there must be something between the holes in what will become a true Swiss cheese. It is paradoxical, however, that you deny being at the root of some blockages. That's beyond me! Then, at the time of the financial crisis of 2008-2099, we shouted on all the roofs that "finance is over; we will take it in hand, control it and we must stop speculating". I would remind you that this is a tax on speculation. We are not talking about the real economy. Then, we reduce it, we constantly reduce it, until the next economic crisis. This is crazy! Prime Minister, you're talking about the pension funds that should be paid attention. It's enough that they don't speculate. In this case, they will not pay any tax. We are debating, not a tax on pension funds, but speculation. So it would be good if they stopped speculating. In this way, they will not pay tax. Your counter-arguments don't hold. We have to see, Prime Minister, that your actions are at two speeds. When it comes to taxing speculators, we're going to use a lot of pretexts and try to balance the pros and cons, but when it comes to increasing energy VAT in Belgium, we don't know the pro and contra arguments and we don't care whether people will be able to pay. This double standard, in terms of taxation, is truly outrageous. More and more people refuse it. An agreement on the tax on financial transactions was in the process of being drawn up, but we do feel that there will not be even a cheese left. If one day this tax comes into force, one guesses that it will only be symbolic. For the rest, we continue to allow the different funds to be speculated. The aim was to cool down markets and flows - since this tax is directed at flows, not stocks. It is urgent to impose it. I have just consulted the CNCD counter, which shows a loss of $6.4 billion since December 6. It's going very fast! That is why it is important to establish this tax very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, on 19 February you met with US Vice-President Mike Pence. He was in Europe, inter alia, in the context of the preparation of the NATO summit to be held in Brussels in May. In the entourage of Donald Trump, Pence is one of the few figures of the republican establishment. He is ethically conservative and in the past, for example, supported companies that refused to provide services to Holebishops and transgenders out of faith. Evident is right that you and your government should engage in dialogue with the new US administration, but that should not prevent you from expressing your concern at the direction the US is taking and making it clear that our values and values are essential for you, including and above all in politics. Hence the following questions. First of all, how and in what atmosphere did the meeting with Mike Pence go? Secondly, what subjects were discussed? Thirdly, did Pence clarify the American position vis-à-vis NATO? Fourthly, did Pence explain the key points of the new US foreign policy? What are the key points? Fifthly, have you expressed your concern about decisions taken by the administration such as the entry ban for certain Muslim countries, the release of the two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, or the cessation of funding for organisations that are pro abortion? Sixthly, have you asked Pence what the Trump administration's intentions are regarding the rights of Holebies and Transgenders?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u30	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about your interview with Mike Pence on February 19. This meeting took place at a time when the international community and several European countries have some concerns about the foreign policy to be led by the Trump administration. Prime Minister, can you give us a debriefing of this meeting? Following the statements by Mrs Mogherini, who had implied that relations between the European Union and the United States would evolve, did you address the question of the future of relations between the European Union, our country and the United States? Did you address the question of the next NATO summit - I imagine so - as well as the Trump administration's position vis-à-vis NATO? This NATO summit should take place in our capital. What will be the technical details?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a working dinner with Vice-President Mike Pence, the atmosphere was respectful and warm. The meeting was extremely frank and I consider it constructive. It provided a better understanding of a number of messages on both sides. We were able to discuss a lot of issues during the discussion. I took the opportunity to inform the Vice-President of Belgium's analysis and views in many important cases. For example, we discussed our bilateral relations and, in particular, our economic relations, security and the fight against terrorism, especially after the attacks in Brussels, the future of the European Union and the Brexit, defence and the role of NATO, the international geopolitical situation, for example the relationship with countries such as Russia, Iran, Syria, Libya and Palestine, and trade policy. I have spoken very honestly about the change that we have recently seen at international level, including the election of Donald Trump, and I have explained that the election of the President raised questions about the future. Certain things were said during the election campaign and certain decisions taken since the official appointment. I told him that the immigration decree caused a great deal of turmoil and misunderstanding. I have also regretted the words we have heard about the future of the European Union and the Brexit. I cannot be completely exhaustive because the interview lasted almost two hours, but I had the opportunity to highlight four points in particular. First, on the issue of multilateralism, which is an extremely strong commitment for us, we have the impression - as I said to him - that there has been in the United States' field of vision, since the election of Donald Trump, a narrowing of multilateralism to the exclusive benefit of bilateralism, such as, for example, announcements of cuts in funding of United Nations agencies. Secondly, I have raised the issue of common defence within NATO and unpredictability, following a number of statements that have been made. I expressed the importance, in the run-up to the next NATO summit in Brussels in May, of greater clarity on the United States' commitment to security and the transatlantic partnership in this area. Thirdly, the fight against terrorism is obviously a top priority for which cooperation with the United States is traditionally strong. We question the future of this relationship in the fight against terrorism. Finally, in my view, the question of values is extremely important. I believe that the Alliance within NATO is not only an alliance for security, it is also an alliance based on the values of democracy and the rule of law. And on these issues, I have indeed expressed how important and strong commitments for us are freedom of the press, tolerance, respect for different convictions. I noted that the Vice-President was appreciative of our country's work, particularly in the fight against terrorism, and well informed of the decisions taken in recent months in terms of reform and capacity-building to combat terrorism. I have also had the opportunity to discuss a number of more geopolitical issues, including the evolution of relations with Russia. As far as I am concerned, I think that, at European level, there is also a need to consider how these relations with Russia can be approached. The same applies to relations with China since a number of critical messages were expressed at the beginning of President Trump on this subject and I was interested in hearing the point of view. I believe that international trade is also a very important challenge for the future. We have noted that a new message has come from the US with a form of isolationism, perhaps even protectionism. The Belgian Government is concerned about this evolution. Even in Belgium there are political movements that argue in this direction, which I regret. I believe that international trade must be an important commitment to maintain prosperity throughout the world. We have also had time to talk about the Middle East peace process. We were able to refer to the American interpretation of the two-state solution. I have explained the Belgian angle of view on this subject and I have, of course, expressed our deep concern after the statements concerning a possible move from the United States Embassy to Jerusalem. We have also talked about the situation in Iran and Libya and have faced the latest information on these two issues. I have, of course, strongly defended the European commitment by insisting that we will not let the European project be dismantled. I have also indicated that we do not appreciate the messages sent by President Trump on this subject. As far as NATO is concerned, Mike Pence was reassuring, as he had already been publicly, by saying that the fundamentals of the relationship between Europe and the United States would still remain, but that there was a need to review a number of cooperation, for example within NATO, on security and resource mobilization issues. Indeed, the United States has the feeling - the message had already been sent, even if it was in a slightly different way, during Obama's presidency - that Europeans should take more responsibility for their own security. On the other hand, it seems that President Trump would be willing to explore all possibilities in order to promote the peace process. We will remain extremely vigilant in this regard. In conclusion, I think I can say that we have had a first contact and a first exchange of quality, with mutual listening, which has made it possible to see many convergences of views but also a number of differences or concerns for the future. According to my interpretation, we will have to follow the situation closely in the coming months. A number of messages are expected to arrive in the coming months. It is up to us, as Europeans, to send a clear message. This is also the meaning of the recent summit in Malta. One of the important points of this summit was the transatlantic relationship and how to approach the relationship with the United States since Donald Trump's election. On the subject, there is a fairly broad consensus at European level. There is a broad consensus at European level. We shouldn't be naive. The election of Trump could mean a new chapter in relations between Europe and the US. Perhaps it should be an encouragement at European level to do more and better, and to achieve greater efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u32	Prime Minister, I agree with your analysis. I do not believe that we have any interest in Europe and the United States moving further apart, on the contrary, given today's world with a high degree of unpredictability. However, this does not mean that we should not place our European values, such as democracy, the rule of law and the free press, at the centre of our relations with the United States. It is a major problem for the United States to turn its back on multilateralism and reduce aid to UN aid organisations. I believe that this is a huge global challenge. I also believe that we should be able to make it clear to Trump from the European Union that world insecurity, migration flows, instability and poverty will only get worse if the UN can no longer act as a performer. It may also be an opportunity for the European Union to achieve enhanced cooperation. We absolutely must go for that. Especially after the German elections, we must give it full momentum. Trump has applauded the Brexit in one of his notorious tweets. Unbelievable! It welcomed the disintegration of the European Union. I believe that we need to step up our cooperation on this issue. I also think it is necessary to give substance to the concept. There are different forms of enhanced cooperation: à la carte, two speeds, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u33	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. It was indeed important to have early contact with the Trump administration. You have met with the American Vice-President, an important figure of the new US government, which I can only congratulate myself on. You gave an update on the various topics discussed on this occasion. I hope you have also sent a whole series of messages on the issue of values. Indeed, the first decisions taken by President Trump are worrying. I am thinking in particular of migration. You talked about common defence. In this context, the important event is the next NATO summit. As you have not mentioned this item, I hope that it is still on the agenda. You also spoke about the fight against terrorism, but you did not mention the fight against the Islamic State or our participation in the international coalition. I imagine that these points were raised on this occasion. Yesterday, I was in Jordan where I met our soldiers on the spot. They are doing a remarkable job, which I would like to salute. This is, of course, an issue that must continue to be the subject of negotiations with the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the establishment of the European military quarter in Brussels. Indeed, at the Jumbo Council on Monday 6 March, it was decided to create a European military micro-quarter, which will be responsible for managing all military and civilian operations on the ground. This structure, unfortunately modest, will be housed in the staff, which has already been based in Belgium for more than fifteen years. The idea of this mini-neighbourhood has been mentioned for a long time, but its current implementation can be explained in particular by a desire to acquire an autonomous capacity for action since Trump's election. In practical terms, this new structure should allow for better conduct of operations. Prime Minister, what means have been put in place or will be implemented by Belgium in the context of the creation of this European military mini-quarter? In the context of the debates on the future of defence Europe, which at last seem to be intensifying, what is our country's position?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed part of strengthening the coordination of a more common strategy in the field of European Defence. This decision taken at the Foreign Affairs Council on 6 March is a step forward which I welcome. A little information, however, on the approach that is being discussed. The Military Planning and Conduct Capability (MCCP) will be responsible for the planning and conduct of non-executive military missions in the future. This term covers non-combatant military missions, i.e. those which, together with local State partners (the army, the gendarmerie or the police, as is the case in Mali), pursue the objectives of continuous training and internal reform of the security sector, with a view to stabilizing and increasing the effectiveness of regular forces in partner States. The aim with the CMPC is to provide better support to commanders of field missions, which are currently deployed, in particular in the Central African Republic, Mali and Somalia. Heads of non-executive missions will be able to focus more on mission-specific activities in the future, with better support from Brussels. So-called executive operations such as Sophia in the Central Mediterranean, Atalante in the Horn of Africa or Althea in Bosnia and Herzegovina will continue to be commissioned from separate headquarters in the Member States. The CFPC established within the pre-existing European Union staff does not therefore constitute a European military headquarters comparable to the NATO SHAPE, which is the only one able to conduct large-scale combat missions as part of the response to possible armed aggression, in accordance with Article 5 of the Washington Treaty. You will have understood that it is a matter of doing everything possible to make better use of existing resources. At this stage, therefore, no additional contributions are requested from our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u36	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You did not mention the Belgian position on Defence Europe. We will have the opportunity to discuss this again in about ten minutes at the Federal Opinion Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u37	Prime Minister, we have heard your calls and proposals this weekend. In a logic of political renewal, you propose to reduce the number of ministers and the number of elected officials. You mentioned the subject two months ago in plenary. We can indeed question the number of ministers in our country, particularly the fact that there are, for example, four climate ministers. Do you therefore consider re-establishing certain competences such as the climate? Don't you think these proposals should apply primarily to your own government? I see your enthusiasm for clear, clear and short-term action. What, for example, is the contribution of a Secretary of State such as Mr. From Crem? Is it not an attempt to avoid the real debate that is currently being held by the publishers, the Optima and other Kazakhgate cases on the links between politics and the business world, the lack of clear regulations and the total lack of transparency in the wealth of elected officials? What do you think of our proposal to introduce full transparency on the heritage of elected officials as it exists for the government in France or in Scandinavian countries for all elected officials? I share with you this concern to reduce the political superstructure in Belgium. Why reduce the number of elected officials, which will reduce the diversity present in parliaments. I cannot imagine that you would like the two PTB Members not to be present! That would be beyond me! I think you like this diversity just like I do. Would it not be a better idea to lower the salaries of MPs and ministers? It's a pretty linear measure. For example, consideration could be given to setting Members' salaries at a maximum of two times the median wage in Belgium and three times the median wage for ministers. It's not bad to live three times above the average population! Here, to get your more detailed views on an exit that, you know, has more than interested me this weekend about your desire for political renewal!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u38	I'm glad to interest you, Mr. Hedebouw! For me, this is a debate that can be conducted without taboos. I have also supported the establishment of a parliamentary committee to enable both the majority and the opposition to fuel democratic debate by making proposals. The line is clear. There are three areas where policymakers must try to advance the quality of our democratic model. First, transparency: transparency of remuneration, transparency of deliberative processes, decision-making processes. From the moment that the financing of a structure is public with a public shareholding or a regular public subsidy, it would, in my view, be legitimate for the law to impose transparency in terms of remuneration. But other proposals could be debated in Parliament. Secondly, conflicts of interest. In my view, the honour of a democracy is to combat situations where there is a potential risk of conflicts of interest. But we need to nuance things. Indeed, it is not through this risk that there is an automatic incompatibility in the exercise of functions. Conflicts of interest can be resolved on the basis of situations, through declarations of interest – this exists at European Parliament level, for example – by not taking part, in some cases, in a deliberative process. This exists in communal law: in a council or a municipal college, rules lead some to refrain from taking part in a deliberation in the event of a potential risk of conflict of interest. It's transparent. That's clear. It's clean. This may go, in the most extreme cases, to an incompatibility between the exercise of certain functions. Thirdly, there are a lot of political and public functions in our country in the broad sense – I persist and I sign. This is about the exercise of responsibility. I am quite in favour of organising a debate on the federal framework, but also on the federated entities. I note that our country has many public and para-public structures with many political representatives. I think there's too many. As a political leader and not as Prime Minister, since this is not within the scope of the federal government, I have spoken about the intermediate structures between the communal level, which is a level of trust and proximity that I very much believe in, and the regional and federal level. In these intermediate structures, I think there are usually many layers. Perhaps we could simplify, bring more transparency and clarity. In the end, citizens would benefit from this situation. There would be more clarity, transparency and understanding, and a better knowledge of who does what, who assumes what responsibility. In this context, a reduction in the weight and costs on the back of taxpayers seems to me to be a possibility. As far as the assets and remuneration of agents are concerned, I do not have any important taboos. I hope that in serenity and without demagogy, Parliament will also be able to address all these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u39	Thank you for your answers, Prime Minister. I'll start with your end, which I'm excited about. Your enthusiasm is shared on the public declaration of heritage. Mr. Reynders had already been in the same direction. I see that there is a unity in the MR to advance, whatever the currents, in this desire to make public the assets of political agents. I hope that this agreement will be reached in the coming weeks or months. You know that your opinion weighs in the balance of political debate, in any case, for an agreement on the publication of the patrimony of political men and women. I now turn to your reflection on the famous intermediate structures between the municipalities, the Regions and the federal government. The beginning of these famous structures is surely "pro" and the end "vinces". In your opinion, this level should be reduced. I hear your strong position in favour of a reduction in the provinces, and I can join you on that. As a federal agent and as a federal executive, we should also reflect on our own structure. You yourself say that your government has four secretaries of state. It's not nothing. I think there's even an agreement to say that one of them, finally... to the point that we're wondering what to think. We thought we'd still ask him a question so he could at least come to see us on Thursday! This would be an important signal to public opinion: we begin by sweeping in front of our own door and we do not just point the finger at other levels of power. Finally, we will have a debate on conflicts of interest. You are right to point out the Speaker of the House: should he have stayed in session during the vote on Proximus? I agree with you that, in the end, he should have left the meeting for that discussion, and I hear you. I believe that over the coming weeks and months, we will be able to consider this type of measure calmly. These are already being implemented in the municipalities and we could apply them at the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u40	This is not a very worthy technique for the quality of the democratic debate. It is very invigorating that you bring ideas and proposals into the democratic debate, but this morning I note that, systematically, in your reply, you are turning my remarks away. You then relay them on social networks in a false and misleading way. I condemn this approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u41	Can you explain how I did not follow your reasoning?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u42	For example, about Israel. Systemically, you lend me words that I didn't make or you transvestite them, and then you relay them on social networks. It is absolutely unworthy of politics, Mr Hedebouw!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u43	You weren't talking about the provinces?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u44	Mr Hedebouw, I give you the last word for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u45	Prime Minister, I am trying to popularise, to make your remarks more concrete, which sometimes are not very clear. I am trying to make the political debate that drives us all more concrete. This revives the democratic debate. It is important to have a clear debate. We will see in the coming weeks and months how this is going to settle, but it is true that I am sometimes a little afraid that if we remain very general, we are not making progress. For example on the Tobin tax, you remain very general but I think there is an urgent need. You may blame me for being a little more concrete than you, but I think that is good in the democratic debate today. I am confident that in the coming weeks we will come up with agreements to restore confidence to the people. That's the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u46	You're a populist!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u47	Prime Minister, stop! Not you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u48	You're a populist, and you're showing it this morning in a blatant way!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u49	It's easy to call me a populist to close the debate. You understand that we will not be able to close the debate like that! We are not going to stifle a debate today only because truths are being said. We have concrete proposals! We are not populists, we are popular! That's the difference. People want a renewal in politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u50	Mr Hedebouw, you have received a reply from the Prime Minister and you have expressed your position. The incident is closed with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u51	This morning's final question to the Prime Minister is a question from myself. I note that it is also the first question by a member of the majority parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u52	Prime Minister, during my visit to China I met the platform ReChat. That platform is actually a Chinese version of Facebook and WhatsApp, which does not exist in China. ReChat is also an app that allows you to pay via smartphones without additional identification, without special login procedures and without additional security devices, such as a particular tray. In Belgium, too, it is technically possible to pay contactless in a number of shops. The principle works as follows. The customer keeps his smartphone within a range of 10 centimeters from the payment terminal, which can make wireless contact with the device. That's possible because of NFC technology, short for near field communication. Three companies are currently offering an app based on this technology and will soon be joining a Belgian large bank with Belfius for the first time. Just like with the internet of things, the contactless payment is a technology that brings with it additional security issues. A proper balance is needed between technological progress and simplifications for consumers, on the one hand, and consumer safety and protection, on the other. The latter is very important to me. Prime Minister, since this is covered by cyber security, I would like to ask you my questions about this. With regard to cyber security, I could actually ask you questions at any meeting. Has the CCB been in contact with the companies that offer apps in Belgium based on NFC technology? For the CCB, the financial sector is one of the vital sectors. Was the CCB consulted by the FPS Finance or by Belfius or any other actors involved in the launch of that app? Has the CCB expressed an opinion in this respect? Does the CCB have a view of the existing security risks associated with such apps? What concerns are there? Were they also transferred to the companies? Have there been any concerns about apps with NFC technology during discussions with other non-Belgian companies but European counterparts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u53	Mr Vermeulen, the CCB was not contacted by and had no specific contacts with the companies that offer applications for contactless payment based on NFC technology. The CCB was also not contacted by the FPS Finance or by the bank Belfius as part of the launch of its contactless payment application via NFC technology. As a reminder, the CCB has the task of coordinating government projects or public-private cybersecurity projects, but is not responsible for providing security advice on all new applications developed by the private sector. It goes without saying, however, that the financial sector is regarded by the CCB as a vital sector in our country. Moreover, the European Directive of July 2016 recognises banks as providers of essential services. The Directive attaches particular importance to the cyber security of those providers. Moreover, the banking sector is already subject to security checks on payment instruments on the basis of European rules by the National Bank of Belgium. In general, the CCB encourages caution in the use of applications based on NFC technologies, despite the fact that Google guarantees the confidentiality and security of the data. Neither the CCB nor its technical team CERT have received any information. The problem of certification of products such as such applications but also at a broader level transcends the Belgian framework in my view. It is currently being examined at the level of the European institutions. The CCB has not yet had a specific exchange of views with its European counterparts on applications using NFC technology. However, we will follow the discussion closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u54	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Of course, I am not surprised that there has not been any communication. It would have been good, not from the CCB but of course from the providers, to take the initiative. Cybersecurity is recognized by many players on the ground as one of the biggest security risks in our internet or things community, in our world and our community. I understand, of course, that the CCB focuses mainly on the large and critical infrastructure, such as banks. However, we must also be sure. Banks, of course, work a lot with large servers. Clients are using more and more laptops and local devices as well as more smartphones and tablets. With those devices, the safety risk is much greater. With these smartphones and tablets they go around a lot and possibly use free Wi-Fi. This exposes the user at that time to some critical and dangerous software. I therefore agree with you that the opinion should be cautious here too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-21-54-commissie-ic623x.u55	The questions have been answered. The hearing is adjourned.
