ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u2	Mr Laaouej has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u3	Mr President, I regret the absence of the Prime Minister. His absence had indeed been announced at the Conference of Presidents, but we have consulted the agenda for the work for which he says he was selected, namely the Social Summit in Gothenburg. We have seen that formal meetings in Gothenburg only begin tomorrow, which means that this afternoon the Prime Minister's time is devoted to something else. I wouldn't have intervened if he hadn't spoken today. Indeed, even if I do not address the substance, it is visibly under its auspices that the Ministers of the Interior and Justice announce a number of measures to be discussed in a moment. I don't think that's right, Mr. President. Priority must be given to Parliament, especially when the minister himself has seized the problem. I'll add that already last week, he was absent. He had made some points. This week, I consider his absence to be unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u4	Mr Clarinval has the floor on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u5	Mr President, you made it very clear last week that the Prime Minister had answered 67% of the questions in plenary. In doing so, I believe that his absence from our assembly cannot be deplored. I would like to draw Mr Laaouej's attention to the fact that it is a Social Summit held in Gothenburg. It was therefore important that the seat of Belgium be occupied. If that had not been the case, we would probably still have been accused of our absence. Finally, you know very well that informal coordination is taking place on Thursdays. It is therefore unfair to deplore the Prime Minister's absence today, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to avoid creating an incident. Having said that, Mr Laaouej was kind enough to inform me of his position, which I thank him for. But the Prime Minister, who – I remind you – is sorry, is currently on the plane to Gothenburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u7	Mr President, I refer my esteemed colleagues to the Prime Minister's official website. According to the agenda, the Social Summit will only begin tomorrow. In doing so, his absence this afternoon is not justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u8	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u9	Mr President, Minister, a train from Walibi was terrorized by immigrant rioters; there were attacks against buses from De Lijn in Anderlecht and Molenbeek; in a street in Anderlecht, Syrians and immigrant neighborhoods went on the fist massively; in a street in the centre of Brussels Saturday night, after a football match of the Moroccan national team, Flemish shops were plundered and destroyed, a fire started and struck with our policemen and firefighters. Yesterday afternoon, in broad daylight, the drive gates were still flying around the Muntplein and the windscreens of cars of random passers-by were smashed with iron bars. All this, Minister, happened less than fourteen days ago. Together with the police union I say: done with pamping and done with the 'this-is-our-choosers-policy'. It shows once again that Brussels has become a hellhole; Trump had a surplus of right. Minister, you said the riots yesterday afternoon were incomprehensible. Now, if the violence of Saturday night resulted in zero arrests, then it is totally not incomprehensible but logical that such behaviour repeats itself. People feel like they're boss in the street. The victims of which the store was completely looted and destroyed will immediately be told after the police have informed us that this is the policy that their colleagues were not allowed to intervene. Mr Minister, do not intervene in order to avoid an escalation and with the idea of driving the rioters away to South Station because there is another police zone starting there, that is madness. I have three questions for you. Flemish Interest was the first to make the analysis that Brussels needs a coordinated security policy and a unified police area. All other Flemish parties have followed us in the meantime. When are you finally going to make concrete work of a single police zone? Secondly, you called the rioters a certain type of youth. I would have liked an answer to my question to define that type. Thirdly, will you draw the right conclusions in your action plan on this government's pamping security and migration policies? Is there finally going to be a hard-on? How are you going to set standards and maintain order? How are you going to maintain it? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to express my support and sympathy for the police officers who were injured on Saturday night. I would also like to express my support and sympathy for the traders, firefighters and all those who have been harassed and attacked in a totally unqualified and unacceptable manner. You yourself considered these events unacceptable. Indeed, wanting to celebrate a game by breaking public space, robbing traders, attacking police officers is completely unacceptable in our country. A second thing which is just as intolerable and which has had a major failure is the way in which the facts have happened to try to prevent these riots and to be able to stop them in time. The mayor did not delegate his powers sufficiently while he was abroad. The intervention was too late and insufficient, not enough in number and on the part of the federal police. There was clearly a problem of articulation between the local police and the federal police. The third thing I would like to say, which I also find unacceptable, is the way in which the Movement against Racism, Anti-Semitism and Xenophobia (MRAX) has called for reporting police violence. However, it is an organization for which I regard it as a country that needs an organisation that fights against racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism. I think this organization needs to get together. We need serious organisations in the fight against racism. The fourth thing, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, concerns you and your party directly. This is the way in which your Secretary of State has made a totally unacceptable amalgam between the rioters and the people who would be illegally staying in Belgium. This is totally unacceptable! Yes, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that has been done in this way! Calling for a fast team, we're doing this mix. It is considered a priori that, when you are in an irregular situation, you are a bully and vice versa. And this amalgam is dangerous in our society. Today we need political leaders who keep their cool, who analyse and do the useful and indispensable actions. I therefore ask you to put in place an effective protection plan for our citizens in the future. I hear you've already made some announcements. I would also like, in terms of resources and resources, to be able to live up to the necessary protection of our citizens and to ensure that the Federal Reserve can be brought up to what it used to be in order to be able to help the communes that are facing such events.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last weekend Brussels was the scene of violent clashes between young Moroccans and law enforcement officials following the celebration of the qualification of Morocco's national team at the World Cup of Football in Russia. An event that should have been a party turned into a drama: wounded policemen, looted shops, burned cars. Apocalyptic images were broadcast on all televisions around the world. What an image for our capital, for our country! And what a disaster for the traders, who were already suffering from the implementation of the pedestrian. While our police officers, with some 20 wounded, would have needed support and comfort, they were caught up in an organization around the state and, moreover, is subsidized by the state. This is unacceptable and incomprehensible, because the MRAX, in order not to name it, without even waiting for the results of a possible investigation, has called via social networks to denounce the alleged police violence. It's unbearable, it's outrageous. Whenever people with a foreign name make headlines, the MRAX, Coordination and initiatives for refugees and foreigners (ICRÉ), the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism (Unia), the Federal Centre for Migration (Myria) feel obliged to defend them at all costs, even against our institutions. This attitude, I believe, is exaggerating a large number of citizens, but also the security forces and all the security services. We must no longer subsidize organizations that are beyond their competence and even close to the limit of legality to support an ideology. The police are essential to the protection of democracy and cannot be discredited. Whatever some say, living together is a terrible failure, from which we must learn the lessons. Our cities are regularly stormed like the suburbs of Paris ten years ago, to which they look unfortunately. We pay for the mistakes of the past, we lived in peace and we are in horror. I come to my questions. Mr Minister, are you finally going to take financial measures against these movements which are entirely subsidized by the state and which voluntarily depart from their primary mission? Moreover, it is imperative to identify these energists and to make them a judicial example, or even, if administratively possible, to expel them. Are you prepared to take these steps? I mean, who's going to pay for these lootings and lootings?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u12	Minister, what happened in Brussels on Saturday and yesterday is unworthy of a capital city. Cars and shops were destroyed, firefighters and policemen were attacked. The perpetrators must be caught and punished, that must be clear. Everyone is a victim, without distinction. Also the Indian operator of a night shop as a chocolatetier, as well as the Moroccan operator of a catering shop as the owner of a furniture store. The biggest victim is Brussels, whose image has been dented. People really do not understand that such a thing is possible in our capital, in the capital of Europe. There are many questions, Minister. How could it have taken 45 minutes before there was enough police reinforcement on the scene? The shopkeepers were on their own for 45 minutes, and they had to protect their own property. How come only one person has been apprehended? Where was the federal police reserve, which normally has to act supportively? The federal police reserve has been considerably reduced in recent years. However, the Committee of Inquiry on the attacks recommended that we immediately invest in them in order to regain a federal police reserve worthy of that name. When will she be here? How much longer will that take? Have the police in the field been effectively instructed not to intervene, as is said? Or is this not right? If it's true, then who gave the order? These are questions that need to be answered today and in the next few days. However, I would also like to stress that repression alone will not solve the problem. In addition to decisive action, which is absolutely necessary, work will also have to be done on the causes of the problem. For example, there will be a need to improve the functioning of the neighbourhood, so that police people actually enter the streets in all neighbourhoods. It is essential to work in the longer term. Colleagues, if a government fails to protect citizens and their property, to protect aid workers, police and fire brigades, it will fail to carry out its essential core tasks. That worries me. What will you do about it, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u13	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in seeing the images of violence in our capital over the last few days, I think that everyone agrees, without exception, that this is unacceptable, that we cannot tolerate it and that we absolutely condemn it. Minister, many questions deserve an answer. Condemning violence is easy. We all do that. Fortunately, there is no discussion about it. However, allow me to ask you a few questions. The police should normally carry out a risk analysis whenever an event takes place. We know that in certain football matches, regardless of the result, people are on the streets. How come the police didn't know there was a game that day? How is it that the police didn't prepare for the fact that people would be on the streets that day, regardless of the outcome? How come the police have been waiting so long for backup? Those are questions that live with a lot of people. Is our police capable of maintaining order in such riots or not? Everyone here said that we must punish and condemn. Again, I support that call. But how can these young people make such riots in our capital? That is perhaps the key question that we should all be asking ourselves. If we have to fill it out today, everyone of us will give a different answer. But our answer doesn't matter. Only if one is close to those young people and close to the community can one know why such unacceptable actions are taking place. Minister, how will the perpetrators, those who caused these riots, be punished? How will you ensure that such riots no longer break out?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u14	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what has been seen in Brussels over the last few days is totally unacceptable in a society that we stand for. This behavior of a group of hotheads cannot and cannot be tolerated and deserves a tough approach, both from the Justice Department and the police. Difficult situations at home, at school or anywhere else there is never a clear guide to such behaviour towards policemen, traders and anyone who tries to behave properly in a normal society. Nothing can be an excuse for blind violence. I would like to stress that the police force itself is not to blame. The people on the ground deserve our absolute support. They are of course not the cause of such scenes in our capital. The question that has already been asked here is whether they were given sufficient support and the right orders to act effectively and vigorously. Minister, we hear that last Saturday was not a matter of resources and that the federal police were ready to act, but our policemen are testifying that they were not allowed to do anything. And then they're standing there in the lion's den. One must sometimes be able to enforce authority. This obviously does not succeed and puts our own policemen in a difficult position. Zero tolerance, on-site arrest teams, VIP police, very irritating police, for the record, Fast teams, whatever they want to call them today, exist these units and we ask for them to be deployed absolutely. Look at Mechelen; it works. Repression and prevention must go hand in hand. Use the resources. That is the question of our group. Mr President, first of all, the key question is: is there a particular attitude in Brussels? Was there a policy line not to act last Saturday, but also in the past few years with enlargement? After all, this does not fall out of the sky. Over the past few years, we have found a lot of serious facts, especially against our policemen. The VSOA states that since 2000 there has been a policy for non-action. Can you confirm that? Secondly, given what social media can produce on an ordinary Wednesday afternoon, is the question whether our security services are sufficiently equipped to monitor and respond effectively to these new channels?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u15	Mr President, Mr Minister, I do not think we need to go back to the details of the serious events that took place in the centre of Brussels on Saturday night and yesterday again: a lot of material damage to private apartments – this is quite new. Above all, there have been many injured police officers and even more distraught traders, not to mention the relief services as well and very unfairly caught up. I know that an investigation is under way to ensure that all existing procedures have been followed. My point is to commend the field work of all the police officers, of all the firefighters, of all those who have intervened in a situation which perhaps did not require such composure on their part. I want to stress how remarkable this coolness, on the part of our forces of law and order, was. The government has always made security one of its priorities. I will stress the speed of his reaction with, as a word of order, firmness. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and you have unequivocally condemned and decided on an action plan that addresses a relatively new phenomenon. For, ladies and gentlemen, we must note that the events that took place in Brussels have their source in Abidjan and have been amplified by slogans, launched in particular at the departure of France. Minister, in both cases we observed the central and unifying role that social networks played in mobilization. I would therefore like you to clarify the importance of "Internet police surveillance" to detect incitement to violence on social networks. A circular will be adopted in the coming days to state zero tolerance for violence against law enforcement. Will this circular also concern medical intervention and emergency assistance personnel? Minister, could you give us an explanation of the police and judicial action plan that the government has just announced? Is a timetable for implementation already set? In what form and within what time frame will local administrative authorities be involved? Will the consultation be limited to police actions or will it include the problems of integration in certain Brussels neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u16	Unacceptable. What happened in our capital on weekends and yesterday is absolutely unacceptable. Minister, we will not allow our capital to become a hellhole. As a CD&V, we absolutely condemn any violence against emergency services, policemen, firefighters and so on. But it is also not acceptable to traders and citizens who are merely coincidentally present anywhere. This isn't about little riots. We are talking about outright criminal behavior, with the sole aim of destroying, plundering shops and simply smashing everything up for no reason whatsoever. It is clearly wrong with some of the subcultures of young people in our capital. We cannot accept this. We must have a zero tolerance policy against this. While the emergency services, I believe, acted very quickly and accurately yesterday, I believe that something went wrong on Saturday night in the direction of those people. As early as Sunday morning, I advocated giving the P Committee the task of investigating the direction of these people. It is often said from Brussels that there are insufficient means to respond to such violence. You also know, Minister, that the last state reform involved an additional EUR 30 million every year in Brussels' security policy. So that's not where the problem is. The problem lies with the control. Today there are six separate police zones. I think that's out of line. In the field of security, the forces must be combined. It is time for security policy, including in Brussels, to be managed centrally. This fragmented policy is clearly inadequate. In Flanders we notice that larger police areas work. I'm asking you to cooperate in making these six police zones one zone. I have two simple questions for you, Minister. What will you do to ensure that violence in Brussels does not become a daily cost? How will you engage in discussions with the Brussels police zones with a view to greater cooperation and a merger of the different zones?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u17	Minister, over the last few days we have witnessed two events in Brussels that have gotten very out of hand. They are degenerate into real destruction and into intolerable violence against police and emergency services. The indignation about this is therefore widely borne. We also have disturbing reports. For example, Minister Gatz states that some young people would like to see more riots. There is also the story of a Flemish radio-dj who wanted to calm the moods. The opposite was true: he himself was attacked. His action to calm the moods had a counterproductive effect. Too soon the perpetrators referred to the police, as if they were at the root of the riots, because they pointed out to certain people their unacceptable behaviour. If even a DJ in the middle of youth culture cannot calm the moods, then those young people should certainly not refer to the police forces. All they have to do is look into their own bosom. We have also seen on TV how even the Mayor of Brussels was dealt with. How are we supposed to deal with these problems, Minister? I have heard many questions and comments on this subject, but they are not all for you, given that you have limited powers. Among other things, you are not competent for the local police. In any case, this scandalous and unacceptable behaviour must be addressed. What will you do within your powers, Minister? For example, will you sit down with local or other actors? How do you want to succeed in a lick-on-piece policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u18	Mr President, Minister, the serious incidents of Saturday evening and yesterday in the centre of Brussels are unacceptable. The environmentalists condemn with the utmost force all the violence that has been committed in recent days in the heart of our capital. The breakers who literally ransacked entire neighbourhoods must be identified and brought to justice in our country as soon as possible. In fact, such dramatic events make only casualties: families and supporters who, on Saturday night, wanted to celebrate the victory of Morocco quietly; firefighters who were greeted with stones as they came to extinguish fires; traders who, in a few hours, saw the project of a life completely destroyed; and, finally, police officers injured in the performance of their duties. But in fact, we are all losers: all Brusselsers and Brusselsers and all the inhabitants of this country. We have seen our city, our capital, sacked by breakers feeding only on conflict and violence. The State, in all its components, has failed to fulfil one of its main tasks, which is to guarantee the protection and security of our citizens. Strong, intelligent, balanced and diversified political responses are therefore urgently needed. Minister, my questions are about having more explanation, more objectivation about what has happened in the last few days. What strategy and arrangements were in place Saturday night for this Côte d'Ivoire-Morocco match, knowing that these two teams have many supporters in Brussels? What was the chain of command? Who was running it? How many inquiries were finally made on Saturday night and yesterday afternoon? What did they lead to? Have any people been arrested? You asked the federal police general inspectorate to open an investigation. Do you have any information to share? When do you expect the final report? Finally, how did the collaboration between the federal police and the local police of Brussels-Capital-Ixelles take place? Are you planning to increase the number of personnel on the federal police reserve, which are now at the lowest level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u19	Minister, this weekend there were riots at the Stock Exchange. The cops look at it and they don't arrest anyone. Yesterday there were riots at the Mint. It looked a bit like the re-release of the Stupid of Portici. Now the police are pulling out. Meanwhile, traders and citizens suffer hundreds of thousands of euros because you, as Minister of Security, are unable to guarantee that security. The police unions say that they have too little resources and that they should not act. Indeed, the individual policeman is not to blame. However, there is a structural problem, because there is no command and there is certainly no unified command because there are six police zones. Making sure there's a unified command is a federal jurisdiction. So that's your jurisdiction. I hear you say in the programme on the subject: 'I am looking at those riots with the eyes of a good man'. You're not being asked to do that. You're mistaken about glasses, you have to look at them with the eyes of the Minister of Security. That's you, you have to act! You said two days ago that this is a recent phenomenon, something that fell out of the sky. In 2000, policemen told us that the youth gangs are taking over the street. You went, with great words, to clean up. You went to clean up Molenbeek. You went to clean up Brussels. What do we see now? Even the street pickers are radicalizing. As far as social media is concerned, two reports are being sent out indicating possible riots. One finds these messages, but always afterwards, afterward. Where are the modern police? Where's the digital police? Where's that digital neighborhood agent who's also digitally present in his neighborhood? Are they all nonexistent? Mr Minister, my question is very simple: what is your policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u20	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I will be very clear, just as the PS has been since the events of Saturday night, which are totally unacceptable. The debriefing of the police services is under way. I think we will have the federal report tomorrow, but you will probably confirm it, minister. The Brussels police services have already taken steps to strengthen the police presence in the city centre, as well as preventive forces - because this aspect must also be taken into account. I've heard a lot of people give their opinions, give advice and propose solutions. Having said that, I would like to remind you of certain things. First of all, Saturday night's event is a spontaneous fact. No warnings were issued by the Crisis Centre, the Region or police areas. In Brussels, we manage more than 900 events per year, 3,500 events and 13 European summits. In 99% of cases, no trouble is to be regretted; everything is going well. It is good to repeat that the law enforcement agencies are fulfilling their mission of ensuring security. For years, Minister, the communal authorities have been asking – as well as our police officers, especially them! – an increase in the number of police officers for the Brussels-Ixelles area. However, since the attacks, not a single policeman has come to join her. There are 300 missing agents. These are the figures of our chief of corps. Moreover, and I regret the absence of the Minister of Justice – as you have held a press conference with him – arrests have taken place. Others are imminent. We want a strong signal – I will tell your Justice colleague when he is here – to troublemakers and breakers. Firmness and severity are necessary to put an end to impunity. Too often, Minister, the work of our police officers is followed by a lack of judicial response. Moreover, I do not want to accuse the magistrates of this: there are forty missing from the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office in order to carry out this work. Today, we see too many rankings without follow-up, due to a shortage of staff. Minister, this morning you were instructed by the government to develop a broad plan for consultation. It is up to me, and I conclude, Mr President, that the people arrested yesterday come from different Brussels municipalities and Flemish Brabant. Therefore, it is not only the City of Brussels that should be discussed. It is also not always necessary to reinvent the concertation because it went well on Saturday. In particular, judicial follow-up is required in relation to such persons. What I would like to hear from you today, Mr. Minister of the Interior and Mr. Minister of Justice, is that tomorrow there will be a reinforcement of staff, that recruitment and commitments will be made. That is what we need in Brussels, as we need a judicial follow-up on these breakers. What is not necessary are unacceptable amalgams from a Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make it clear that the maintenance of public order is a local responsibility. As a federal authority, we support each and every request made to us. Several of you asked the question, the federal reserve was present and the federal government responded to all the requests of the Brussels police. As foreseen in the Canal Plan, the capacity of the Federal Reserve has been increased and will continue to be increased in the months and years to come. Both Saturday and yesterday, federal assistance was quick and adequate. I am not saying this to escape my responsibility because if public order is threatened in this way and in such an explicit way, I believe it is my duty to help keep the situation under control. I would also like to take this rostrum to thank our police officers and firefighters who have had to work under particularly difficult circumstances. It is unacceptable that police officers who risk their lives to our people should be attacked in this way! I would like to offer my encouragement to those who have been injured. We can always ask questions about the police as an organization, but the work of the police deserves our highest esteem. Following the riots of 11 November, a series of relevant questions were raised about the command, arrests or presence of police officers on the ground. Allow me not to comment today on this subject. Immediately after the riots, I asked the AIG to conduct an independent and thorough investigation. I will have the report tomorrow and it is clear that this report will be shared with Parliament. Mr Demon, you mentioned the P Committee. We have put the AIG in place. The P Committee is a body of Parliament, while the AIG falls within my competence. The results of this report will also be included in an action plan that I will draw up with my Justice colleague, Koen Geens. I realize it's urgent. Tonight I've been sitting with colleague Geens for the first time. Mrs Lalieux, for the action plan, it is clear that the local authorities will also be consulted, the City of Brussels but also the Region. This consultation seems logical to me. Ladies and gentlemen, such a plan will only be useful and useful if all the actors involved cooperate. Some of you would undoubtedly like to hear other things from us. I am going into this dossier for cooperation between the different powers and not for confrontation. A question was asked here about social media. With the police, the Internet Referral Unit currently has 23 people who, in consultation with the Justice Department and also on their own initiative, scan the Internet. You will agree with me that this is an immense task. All those different social media with thousands, hundreds of thousands of messages checking, that is, of course, immense. The police had received the message from the Paris rapper that there would be an action in Brussels. However, I am not in favour of all messages being intercepted on all social media at any time of the day. We also need to be realistic. The demand for the single police zone was also repeated here. Last week, I stressed in Parliament that a study is under way, not just for Brussels but for the whole country. I think the 187 police zones today are too many. We must, as has been said here, move to fewer police areas. Large police zones prove their impact. That's the direction we need to go. Two specialists are currently working on this study, which will also cover Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that it is rather easy to throw stones at the police. I find that unacceptable. Not the policemen have caused the riots, but scumbags, which with his crapulous behavior do not belong in our society. I think that's where the answer lies. After all, what we have seen in the last few weeks are not isolated incidents. It is the increasingly visible excesses of cancer that, if we do not stop them now, undermine our entire society and cause irreparable damage. We will not let that happen. So what we need to do now is to call these vandals to order immediately, with a lick-on-piece policy, which is visible and concrete, and on which concrete penalties follow. Those must be severe punishments, if I'm asked. As a community and as a government, we must call them directly to order and punish them. Zero tolerance will be our rule here. We must no longer allow them to get away with anything with impunity and anonymity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u22	Minister, no one in the hemisphere has thrown stones at the police. This happens on the streets, in Brussels, literally, by criminals who have been pampered for years. I have not received an answer to my question as to what type of young person you mean. How the hell will you solve the problems if you don't even dare name them! I often hear talk about a lick-on-piece policy, about severe penalties. We've all just heard it a little too often to believe it all. Twenty years ago, it was five to twelve. For a real standard, for hard enforcement, just a little more is needed than what previous governments and the current government are doing, such as turning the Brussels Christmas market into a winter party and congratulating Moroccan officials, because they distance themselves from such criminal behavior. The committee of inquiry on the attacks, which we have witnessed here, has once again demonstrated the madness leading to the kind of whims of political determination in this country. We have received even more from Islam, practical tests against discrimination and even the creation of an institution that can assist the victims of police violence. Minister, a playground in Lemonnierlaan is not going to help. Make urgent work of the single police zone. Enter an immigration stop. Remove Belgian nationality from all those who have dual nationality and expel criminal aliens from the country. In cases where the government fails to protect citizens, the right to self-defense extends to the right to protection of property. In any case, we will put forward a legislative proposal for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u23	Mr. Minister of the Interior, we will analyse, in detail and with great interest, this report with you, as well as the assessment you are announcing for tomorrow. You're already putting a plan in place. That's what you announced to the press this morning. I find it unfortunate that you have told us so little about it, because Parliament could have received some details. But above all, other plans have existed before. I want another one, but we need resources, Mr. Minister of the Interior. That is, above all, what we need. In your policy note, you admit that you are trying today to ensure that the savings you made at the beginning of the legislature on the backs of magistrates and police officers are compensated and that we return to the level that was in effect in the previous legislature. Your responsibility lies here, Mr. Minister of the Interior. You have not allocated enough resources to the federal police and local police. It is on this subject that we are waiting for you, Mr. Minister of the Interior. You talked about the federal reserve. This one is still not up to level. It has always been amputated under this legislature and it is time that the Federal State and the Minister of the Interior, whose security is one of the prerogatives, even when the facts take place in the territory of the city of Brussels, support the areas when they need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u24	Minister, any incitement to hatred must be condemned. Incitement to the hatred of our law enforcement agencies must also be condemned. Justice and the police are always wrong, not the culprits! They are organizations that, by their attitude, create racism and the rise of extremes. Minister, I invite you to reframe the MRAX and urge it to stay within the limits of its mission, under penalty of suspension of its public endowments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have indicated that a number of answers to important questions will become clear tomorrow, when you receive the report. You were clear about one case. You said here that the federal reserve was standing by, that the federal reserve was there. Then why did it last Saturday 45 minutes before it was effectively deployed? That's one of the questions. I look forward to the answer to that question. On the one hand, I am pleased to hear that she was standing by, on the other hand, I do not understand why she was not deployed for 45 minutes. What people expect from government and from politics is for a problem to be addressed. Whether that problem is addressed by the mayor of a city or by the Minister of the Interior does not really matter to the people. They want the problem solved. There will therefore be a need for cooperation. Our citizens must be able to rely on the government to carry out this essential task of guaranteeing security. If the government cannot do so, it will fail, and we cannot accept that in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As far as repression is concerned, you were very clear. We support you in that. The perpetrators must indeed be arrested and punished. They need to get a clear signal that what happened can't. Before Question Time began, I read a Belgo message from you, in which you and Minister None stressed that there should be prevention as well as repression. However, I have heard little talk about prevention here, and I have heard little talk about how you will deal with prevention. Minister, I hear voices rising that we should only use repression. However, the police are not the enemy of the citizen. The police must remain the friend of the citizen. The public needs to know that he can count on the police. He needs to know that when there's riots, when there's danger, the police will protect him. It is therefore far too little to focus on repression. I hope that you will also pay a great deal of attention to prevention. We will question you in due course, in the hope that we will receive more concrete answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answers. We look forward to the additional action plan, which you will draw up together with Minister None. Ladies and gentlemen, the government does not save on security, quite the contrary. The federal reserve was ready. But what are federal investments in police if the locals don't want to use them? So nothing. Zero tolerance and a lick-on-piece policy are not new words. They're not hollow words either. Hard action and prevention go hand in hand. We never talk about one thing or another, they go hand in hand. That is a vision, a policy line that is followed by many mayors and many corps in our country, in Flanders. It is therefore high time that Brussels too realized that repression is sometimes the best form of prevention. Respect must be able to be enforced, only then can one return to a safe society. And a safe society, that's what the people are asking of us. It is therefore high time for the right action, including in our capital city, Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u28	Minister, I imagine that in the light of the ongoing investigation, we will have to appreciate the opportunity to adapt the arrangements that are scheduled for next year's Football World Cup. But today it is important to remember that in no way should the perpetrators of these acts benefit from impunity and that they must therefore be found, prosecuted and judged, because that is the answer that the police, the firefighters, the traders and, quite simply, all of our fellow citizens are waiting for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u29	Minister, demand zero tolerance in some areas. Get on the phone and get a unit in Brussels. Mrs Kitir, we are investing EUR 8 million for safety and prevention plans in Brussels. That's one fifth of the budget for the whole country. If you find that the objectives are not being met, then perhaps the question should be asked as to whether there is a need for this kind of money. Mr Bracke, perhaps you should take action after the call of Sunday and have it checked by the P Committee, not to point the finger at people, but to learn lessons from it for the future. That's your jurisdiction. I asked you that Sunday. The Minister just heard it, too. I hope you take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u30	It's been noted. Thank you, Mr Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I look forward with interest to the AIG's report. I think that this will be very important for assessing the situation and for getting an answer to many things that are still unknown. I am also pleased that you are going to sit down with the local authorities, which can only work constructively and enlighteningly. What you are announcing is indeed a lick-on-piece policy. That is what the people are asking for and what we must strive for. Perhaps some can find inspiration in the approach in Antwerp, Aalst or Sint-Niklaas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u32	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. As I said in my speech, it is necessary to analyse and objectify. Tomorrow you'll be in possession of the report. It is, in my view, important that, in particular, the Committee on the Interior should have access to it and that we should be able to discuss it quickly. An action plan is needed because our citizens expect rapid, strong and balanced reactions. That is why I regularly insist on the need for such a plan, which includes, of course, a repressive component, so that the troublemakers, the breakers, are brought to justice as soon as possible, but also includes a component providing for investments in the police force, in particular those of the local and local police, as well as in prevention, social cohesion, training and neighbourhood work. Without this balance, no lasting solution is possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u33	Minister, you begin by saying that this is a local responsibility. I'm sorry, but you're the Minister of Security, you have a coordinating power. Please stop your calimero behavior where it's always someone else's fault. The Panama Papers, that's not the Michel government, that's Panama. The attacks, that's the liaison officer. Catalonia, we are not, that is the EU. The budget, we are not, are the sossen. Who's Secretary of Security? That is not Mr Mayeur, that is not Philippe Close, that is you! Get a unit of command now. Make sure there's a merger of those police zones. My group has already tabled a proposal. I just heard the presentation of the CD&V. Mr Demon opens the door of the Community fridge. Join us! With Mr Degroote of N-VA there is nothing of this. The fridge's too cold for him, and he'd rather stay off it. You dare to take responsibility! Fuse those police zones and be "Strong Jan" for once!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. Minister, we can hear you! You're always "in the process of...", "I'm going to act for..."! We ask you to act, not in a week or a month, but now, Minister! Very clearly, what is required are budgets to strengthen the police force, to strengthen the judiciary and our security police. When you or Mr Geens speak of zero tolerance, the unbearable, minister, is that a breaker who, on Saturday night, demolished a police car and was arrested by that police, was released the next morning. This is the sense of impunity that the Brussels people are experiencing! It is not a question of local police or a question of communal authorities but a question of the judicial field, of the lack of magistrates...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u35	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u36	Minister, it is you who are talking about zero tolerance! Well, we now ask for an end to impunity, not only for the police but also for the SMURs, the firefighters and the citizens who are now being abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u37	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the political situation in Zimbabwe requires our full attention after what is, I say with caution, akin to a kind of military coup in the face of the world's oldest president, 93 years old, who has gradually become a dictator whose political passive, I say this time as a defender of democracy and political alternation in Africa, leaves to say the least thought. One seems to be in the midst of a war of succession arbitrated by the army and in which the wife of the president, who is about half his age, and who seems to have ambitions of becoming president. Mr Minister, it is therefore important to know what is happening in this country. Are there any violence by the army? Is the latter united against political power or against it? Can we also be reassured about the safety of our citizens? How many are there? Can they receive diplomatic assistance from another European country (because I believe we do not have an embassy in that country) or from South Africa and the United States? What is South Africa's role in that country? In any case, this country is a sign of a real disaster, since it is the real wheat attic of South Africa. It is a country that has a lot of raw materials, almost all the raw materials except oil and whose situation today is a situation of famine where more than 3 million blacks have left the country for lack of living and where almost all the white farmers have been expelled by the power of Mr Mugabe, who, moreover, does not hesitate to say all the veneration he feels towards Adolf Hitler. Desmond Tutu, who is known to be one of the heroes of South Africa's independence, did not hesitate to say that Mugabe was a kind of Frankenstein of Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u38	Mr Flahaux, the situation is indeed quite confused for the moment in Zimbabwe, particularly in Harare, after the intervention of the armed forces on the night of 14-15 November. This seems to be the result of a conflict within the ruling party. President Mugabe and his relatives were reportedly placed under house arrest, without our knowledge of the scope of these provisions. I called for respect for the rule of law and dialogue in that country, with the support of the region and in particular the Southern African Development Community (SADC). South African President Zuma is in charge of the presidency of this regional organisation and has asked the Minister of Security and Defence of the region to try to find a way out of the crisis. The European Union is also in favour of an approach towards Zimbabwe as it has proposed to assist in the organization of credible elections. This will be a key element for the coming months if economic and political reforms are to be implemented that are necessary to ensure stability, prosperity and a return to a more democratic functioning in Zimbabwe. Our databases show us 128 Belgians on the ground. Our Honorary Consul in Harare is in contact with this Belgian community and ties with other embassies are primarily with the Embassy of France. We share with this embassy a great deal of information on possible crisis measures to be taken. However, I would like to reassure you that, at this stage, no threat has been made to Belgians present in this territory or to other communities of foreign origin in general. Of course, we recommend that our compatriots stay vigilant and limit their movements in the capital, avoid the city centre, official buildings and rallies. This is advised when incidents occur in a country. We will continue to monitor the situation. Next week there will be a European Union-African Union summit in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. I will have the opportunity to go to the preparatory ministerial meetings and we will of course mention this situation on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u39	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, particularly with regard to the Belgian community present on the spot. But beyond the Belgian community, the fate of Zimbabweans is also important. One would dream of a development of the country as experienced by South Africa in pacification and economic development. All the elements are there to ensure this economic development of Zimbabwe. Unfortunately, over time, President Mugabe has become the best enemy in his country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u40	Mr President, Minister, yesterday Elia published a study on the decisions to be taken to try to secure the country's energy future. O surprise, beyond renewable energy, demand management, storage and gas-fired power plants, she mentioned the possible extension of two nuclear power plants. Your government partner, the N-VA, has gone into the breach to support this nuclear extension. The hidden agenda of the N-VA is displayed today. The Minister of Energy, by dragging on the implementation of the energy pact, plays the game and de facto gives way to lobbies, particularly nuclear. Let us remember that the convention on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 was signed in the offices in Paris. She also gives way to the lobby of her government partner N-VA. Mr Minister, has your colleague definitively renounced his responsibility for energy? Minister, there is a law on the exit of nuclear power. It is not a statement of intent, it is a text to be applied. Either we apply it or we change it. As one speaker in the press said today: "In terms of energy, the government statement is a cemetery of unfulfilled promises." Minister Marghem, by not deciding anything, gives way to the energy lobby and creates an unhealthy climate, preventing any investment by economic actors in this transition. It has already, without fighting with the European Union, abandoned the call for tenders for gas decided by the previous government. Ô surprise, exactly the same project is found in the study published yesterday. We lost three years. You lost three years. We've wasted time and money. Minister, will you make a concrete decision to implement the thermal capacity required for the future energy transition and will you give up nuclear power, as the law provides? Or will you give in to your partner N-VA? I would also like to address my colleagues in the CD&V, Open Vld and MR, who were very critical yesterday when the policy paper was presented, for their positioning and compliance with commitments. Has the runaway in front of the N-VA become the rule?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u41	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, yesterday Elijah's study was released. From that we learn two things. Firstly, an exit from nuclear power in 2025 is possible, more than possible. Secondly, we must now, immediately, act, draw up and implement an action plan. It's five to twelve. Despite that conclusion, the N-VA actually comes to a different conclusion. It is creating a panic: the light will go out, so we must keep the nuclear power stations open. No, Minister. We must follow the law and allow the core exit. We must draw up and implement an action plan. As long as the debate on the exit continues, we are simply preventing investment in renewable energy. So let us stop doing that, let us simply implement the law, otherwise you, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, must submit a legislative amendment so that we can change the law. I honestly wonder if you would find a majority for that. Minister, I only have two questions for you. My first question has already been put to Minister Marghem a few times. Will the government follow the law and make the core exit possible by 2025? Will the Energy Pact finally be urgently addressed, with an action plan, so that the core step can be perfectly achieved, as Elia's study suggests? However, we must act now, and we expect the government to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u42	Mr President, Minister, yesterday we learned that, according to a study by Elias, if we do not take action, we will not be able to do without nuclear energy in 2025. The message is very clear: action must be taken now. It is an alarm signal sent to the entire political world and, in particular, to the competent minister, with the aim of ensuring a situation in which we can do without nuclear energy. We have all decided – in any case, a large part of the political parties – that we should do without it in 2025. It is therefore with great astonishment that we learn that a benefit from the majority takes a completely different view of the above-mentioned study by saying that it will not be possible to dispense with nuclear power in 2025 and that, in so doing, it will be necessary to extend the operation of nuclear power plants in Belgium for another ten years. Minister, as we are talking about a partner of the majority, could you please let me know the government's position on this matter? Is the 2025 heading retained or not? Our concern is all the more so since many of the signals are quite alarming. Last week, ENGIE Electrabel's management committee landed in Belgium. Ms Isabelle Kocher was very clear in her opinion. I quote: "We are a major player in nuclear power in Belgium" – the least we can say – "with seven nuclear reactors in operation. We fight to prolong them." In other words, a political decision has been taken by the representatives of the people and the representative of a multinational company has come here to make it clear that her company will fight to prolong the life of its nuclear reactors. We had a debate on the interparliamentary declaration. In point 13 of the latter, reference is made to the release of nuclear power. We had tabled both at the federal level and at the level of the Brussels Region amendments aimed at clearly indicating the date of the nuclear release, namely 2025. Our amendment went to the Brussels Parliament and it was included in the interparliamentary declaration for discussion at the federal level. But at the level of the latter – it is worrying because this was done not only at the initiative of the N-VA, but also at the MR – the point of the interparliamentary declaration which clearly indicates the date of 2025 was rejected. Mr. Clarinval stressed this positively by confirming the information. The question is very clear since we see negotiations to withdraw the 2025 deadline. While a law was passed for the release of nuclear power in 2025, why is everything being done in the lobby, in the private sector, in the FEB, but also in the policy so that this is not the case? The N-VA played cards on the table in this matter. I hope today that the MR will do the same and tell us, Mr.Clarinval, whether the 2025 date is, yes or no, maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u43	Mr President, Mr Deputy Minister for Energy, thank you for replying today on behalf of Minister Marghem. So far, we in Parliament have remained somewhat hungry in the discussions on the core exit and the energy pact. Those files have been dragging on for some time now. I suspect, however, that we are close to an agreement on the energy pact. The four competent ministers in our country are now working hard on this. We hope to get an answer very quickly. Can you tell us more about the timing of the matter? Political decisions and political communication are extremely relevant throughout the energy debate. In Flanders we are now experiencing a revival of the solar panels sector, which was completely on the ground a few years ago. This revival is due to the fact that a Flemish minister is fully committed to solar panels and gives that sector a new boost. Today, too, we succeed in building offshore wind power parks with very few subsidies. Significant steps are being taken towards our future energy supply. This is thanks to this federal government, thanks to its efforts and its vision, together with Secretary of State Philippe De Backer, who guides it. At the moment when we are making the switch, with several competent excellences and the federal government sending out the signal that they are focusing on renewable energy, it would be a dramatic political communication to proclaim the opposite and once again cast doubt on the core exit in 2025. That doubt puts the current investment climate in renewable energy at risk. Moreover, the biggest player in our country, ENGIE Electrabel, is making the turnaround itself, because it puts a stop to nuclear projects and it devotes itself to research and development. Minister, in addition to the question of the timing of the Energy Pact, I would also like to ask you whether this government will continue to adhere to the agreed and established core exit in 2025, a date on which my group is already firmly committed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u44	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, yesterday's President's statements are a reminder to the political world: more procrastination, more hesitation. It is necessary to carry out what everyone has to admit and what Elia's president, Chris Peeters, points out in obvious terms: "In the medium term, Belgium has an interest in having an electrical system that relies mainly on a production mix that includes a maximum of renewable energy combined with flexible thermal capacity and complemented by cross-border exchanges via interconnections." The road map is given by Elia! It is in line with what the vast majority of policy makers must admit. We've got to stay on course. But because of the fact that in the majority of governments there is a party that maintains doubt, the unknown, there may be a difficulty in finalising the much-needed energy pact. It was too late because there was probably not enough investment, perhaps starting with the Federal Minister for Energy, in the search for convergence. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, if you do not tell us today that the release of nuclear power in 2025 is confirmed, that this is the will of the government, I fear that there will be no finalisation of the energy pact by the end of the year because this will lead to rethinking all the parameters of the convergences of the energy policies of the different levels of power. The federated entities are in line with the logic of exiting nuclear power. If there is no exit from nuclear power, we can say that there is no longer any energy policy on behalf of Belgium. At the international level, this would once again penalize the image of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u45	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, will the nuclear power stations close in 2025 or not? That's the question that dominated the media yesterday. That is also the question that this government raised in the drafting of the coalition agreement in 2014. Colleagues, it is also the question that all investors in the Belgian energy landscape have been asking for years: are the nuclear power plants really going to close in 2025 or not? Let us be honest, as long as there are doubts about that core exit, no investor is inclined to invest heavily in our Belgian energy capacity. Everyone is looking for clarity and certainty about future energy policy. It is precisely for this reason that we pointed out in our election programme in 2014 that there was an urgent need for an energy pact, a pact which contains very clear choices about our future energy policy. Choices we are going to make to show how we will light the light after 2025. The core exit in 2025 is the starting point of that energy pact for CD&V. The formulation of this pact is one of the spearheads of the coalition agreement. Unfortunately, despite my many parliamentary questions and our resolution, this pact is slowing down. The deadline was 2015, now Minister Marghem has announced it will be there by the end of 2017. In the meantime, steps have already been taken. Citizens have been able to fill in an online survey. Stakeholders have received a survey. Yesterday, Elijah launched a new report on energy policy. We believe that this is a very valuable report, because the main conclusion is that the core exit is feasible by 2025. However, action must now be taken. We at CD&V find this too. Unfortunately, as a result of that report, different opinions emerged about the core exit and timing. Some once again questioned 2025. My only question is therefore the following, Mr Vice-Prime Minister. What is the government's position on the core exit? Is this position supported by all parties? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will provide you with a few elements depending on the issues raised. First, the government agreement states that the duration of operation of nuclear reactors will not exceed 2025. This plan for the gradual exit of nuclear energy is, as you know, enshrined in the law of 31 January 2003 as amended by the law of 28 June 2015. The government is preparing the energy transition, in consultation with the Regions, to enable the necessary socio-economic and ecological transformations over a period of at least 20 to 25 years. A safe, affordable and sustainable energy supply is a shared responsibility of the federal government and the Regions. The work is therefore done in collaboration. The study that Elijah has just published complements the study requested by the Minister of Energy to define the needs for adequacy, matching electricity production and consumption, and flexibility for the period 2017-2027. The study is complete and clear. This second study contains Elia's energy vision for 2050. It presents numerical scenarios for 2030 and 2040 to ensure the country's security of supply in a context of carbon-free energy production. It shows that the decarbonization of our society by 2050 is possible, but requires significant investment from the Regions and the federal government. This study certainly does not call into question the law on the release of nuclear energy. It defines the different possible scenarios. In the context of the discussions on the Energy Pact, many actors have contributed. A citizen consultation was also organised which resulted in more than 45 000 responses. All these contributions are analysed by the four Energy Ministers in the context of discussions on the Energy Pact. Those discussions are proceeding at a rapid pace. The federal government's ambition is, of course, to be able to reach an agreement on the energy pact as soon as possible. That is why I call on all those who can exert influence on this issue to convince the four Energy Ministers to move forward in this direction. The report presented yesterday by Elia recalls the need for rapid progress. If the law is to be respected, as I have been asked to do, a massive amount of investment must be made, both at federal and regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u47	Minister, thank you, even though you have not answered some questions. I guess that's part of the game. Still it is that your answer, which came from Marghem's firm, reassures me only half. In any case, I note that you confirm the closure of the nuclear power plants by 2025. However, I am rather concerned about the way the process is going. In my view, the minister's goal is to "swirl slowly": the deadline is 2015 for the first decision, but nothing is expected in 2016-17. She's pedaling backwards, your minister! The energetic transition is essential. To do so, it requires a number of decisions. Investors, as well as customers and consumers, must be reassured about the promotion of sustainable energy, at sustainable cost and accessible to all. Above all, Belgium must guarantee satisfactory energy supply to companies. I thank you while reminding you of these priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u48	Minister, you were not very clear about the various questions about the core exit in 2025. Your answer was a little flou. You keep saying that the law will be followed, and we are pleased about that. The positive thing is that you say that an agreement should be reached with the four ministers of regional governments because they need to invest in alternative forms of energy. Well, as I know, the four ministers of the regions agree; they all want to go full on the core trip. There can therefore be no problem, except under the N-VA, to make it to the core exit of 2025. I therefore hope that this government will take full advantage of this. The only ones against it are the N-VA and the VBO. Even Voka is going for the core trip. So I hope the same of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u49	Minister, I have heard your answer, but of course I am not reassured. After all, people are told that there is a heavy lobby going on to stop 2025 as a target date. We have also noticed this in the recent debates in this House. There are two ways to torpedo the chords. There is the method of the N-VA, which clearly suggests being nuclear and wants to work with it for another ten years. The other method, which is equally dangerous, is not to set up anything to create replacement capacity before 2025. The nuclear lobby is also working on that. The question is, therefore, what is stated in Elia's report: why insufficient measures are now being taken to have other capacities by 2025. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that as long as we are stuck in free market thinking, in the logic that such a transition must be profitable in the short term, we will not get there. We need a certain ecological planning of our economy. That is very clear about gas! As long as nuclear power brings money, there's no problem. We are destroying our economy and ecology for only one reason: short-term profits. We want to close the power plants to gas because the prices on the market are not enough: it is the complete failure of the logic aimed at solving the ecological problems within the framework of economic capitalism and the market economy. The "invisible hand" only thinks of one thing: business. She doesn't think about ecology. Colleagues, it is our duty to leave these frameworks to solve future environmental problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u50	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, three years ago I rode my bike through Cuba. We do not need much energy there, because everyone still rides horses and carts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u51	That's not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u52	No? Feel free to take a look in Cuba, Mrs Temmerman, the 56K modem has not even disappeared there. Minister, I welcome your reply in that you confirm the date of 2025. That is the date in the coalition agreement; that is what was agreed. It is also the starting point of what we can expect in the future. Normally, the various ministers will present an energy pact in December. We look forward to that. As has already been said, if we want to warm up investors to really get involved in the story of renewable energy, we must have a clear framework. The choice that Elijah is putting forward to provide the remaining gas capacity will also be a huge challenge. The scenario of interconnection between the different European Member States for energy capacity is urgently needed. 2025 is very close. Together with you, we look forward to the Energy Pact in December. Hopefully it will provide a clear framework. As has been said, our party firmly supports 2025 as a departure date for nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u53	Mr. President, the part of the minister's response to the release of nuclear power in 2025 was not a problem for me. I take this clear answer for a disavowal of the position of the N-VA. It's so rare that we could, at the very least, satisfy ourselves with it. I will not squander my satisfaction: for once, the minister has just told us that the N-VA would not get right. We will, however, verify this when the energy pact is implemented. I would remind you that the decision to leave nuclear power is the sole responsibility of the federal government. This should not be negotiated with the Regions. It will be more interesting to examine how the energy pact, which is announced to us by the end of the year, will be financed. I do not know if Mrs Marghem is finally sure of her tempo, but I dare hope so. We will pay particular attention to the financing of the programme of investments in other energy sources. This is the real challenge: planning for financing, taking over costs, the possible impact on consumers, and how we will ensure that this impact is limited. In this respect, the increase in VAT was not a good presage of the options taken by this government. Let us wait a few more weeks to see who, in the end, will be right in the majority, but let us mark a point today if the exit of nuclear power is at least confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, confirming the provisions of the coalition agreement. I therefore assume that all government parties will faithfully implement the coalition agreement. For us, it is very clear that the planned core exit in 2025 is and remains the baseline scenario of the Energy Pact. We are very pleased with Elijah's study, which closely supports our own energy vision. It clearly demonstrates that 2025 is feasible provided that it is now decided and no time is wasted. We must not forget that we must also focus on energy efficiency and more renewable energy. In addition, additional capacity of gas installations is needed. And let us be honest, those installations will not come by themselves. Support mechanisms need to be developed for this. Colleagues, the total shift from nuclear energy to green energy will not be evident. This will take time and cost money and so does CD&V. That is precisely why we need to make these choices together with stakeholders, investors and our citizens. There must be support for it and choices must be incorporated into an energy pact. All the scenarios are on the table now. We call on all concerned ministers to implement the government agreement, to implement the law, and to implement an energy pact. Together, let us make a strong transition to green energy. CD&V is not afraid of change.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u55	Mr President, Minister, in the columns of the newspaper Le Monde on Tuesday, your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, welcomed a return to Belgium of a security policy. He was talking about the return of an effective and efficient police since he took office. Unfortunately, yesterday, the Belgian press echoed a note written by the country's fourteen judicial directors denouncing the state in which the Federal Judicial Police is left. I have often shared in this Parliament the concerns of federal police personnel and trade union organisations, including the reduction of operating budgets, the disappearance of a series of forensic laboratories, and the insufficient number of police officers in the road police. Today, however, it is the fourteen Kingdom Judicial Directors who are sounding the alarm. They denounce, among other things, staff shortages. According to the information I was able to gather, it was the directions of Antwerp, West-Vlaanderen and the Walloon Brabant that would be most affected. Minister, my questions are simple. What do you think of these claims expressed in the 14 Court Directors' Note? Don't you think it would be appropriate to consider an audit of the IGA regarding the state of the Federal Judicial Police?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u56	Mr. Thiébaut, the joint memorandum, drawn up by the Directors of Police on a series of important challenges facing the police, was received positively by the Federal Police Steering Committees, namely the Commissioner General and his Directors General. Only one comment was made that this internal exercise was made public and without context. I agree with the positive and forward-looking message of the judicial directors. Some specific aspects within the Federal Judicial Police have already been discussed in the working groups that have been set up on this subject. They will lead to a concrete action plan to be submitted to the steering committees. Both the police and the two line ministers agree on future security issues requiring the federal police to always adapt the services it provides. On the other hand, it should be noted that the majority of the findings are perfectly in line with developments in the federal and national police forces in other European countries as well as with the Parliamentary Committee for the Investigation of Terrorism, which recently communicated its conclusions, findings such as the need for appropriate technology. Mr Thiébaut, Mr President, I would like to inform you in conclusion that the evaluation period for the optimization of the 2014 Federal Police is under way, as it must be completed by the end of next year as has been legally planned. The note by the Court Directors is also part of this evaluation and is therefore welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, more than an action plan, it is additional resources that the Federal Judicial Police needs. What the note (confidential, but made public by the press and fatally known to us) highlights in the current context is that, on the ground, areas are obliged to resume a whole series of missions previously carried out by the Federal Judicial Police for lack of resources. Thus we are witnessing the creation of a kind of judicial police bis, on the backs of the police areas, therefore on the backs of the local authorities, to the detriment of the communes! And we're gradually moving towards a local police force that would be regionalized and, at the federal level, towards some kind of American-style FBI. I can understand that your NV-A partner finds satisfaction with the prospect of such a structure, but I cannot understand that this is the case with all the partners of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u58	Madam Secretary, since October, home nurses have been required to read the patient's identity card for each visit to patients at home. That measure wasn't our choice. It is true that there is fraud in the sector, there are some bad apples, but we did not agree that this would draw the whole sector into a bath of red tape. In addition, there was no provision for accompanying measures for home care, which had to make investments in this area. However, things have not been done. You pushed through that measure. Today we see that there are a lot of problems on the ground. Some home nurses are doing well, but a whole part of the twenty thousand are doing very well today. We do not really care whether this is due to late payments by the mutualities, because they are not ready yet, or because the software providers are not ready yet, or because home care loses a lot of time to explain it to patients, which has not happened in advance. We are interested in the fact that home care, which is already in such a difficult situation, is now losing a great deal of time on this administrative burden. If reading is not done correctly, they also lose some of their income. You know they're already way behind. As a result, there is much less time left, even less than there already was, for the patients. That is why I would very much like to repeat my question today, a question from the N-VA Group, to provide for a postponement of this measure and to introduce a transitional period until all these problems are removed and the sector can get back to work quickly for the care of our patients rather than for administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u59	Minister, the legislation that makes it mandatory to read the patient ID card for home nursing when you want to use the paying third party, dates back to 2015. It entered into force on 1 October last. It is astounding that between these two dates the necessary measures have not been put in place to facilitate this practice. There are the problems, they have been mentioned, of software that is not yet adapted. There is information that you have committed to providing to the public and to the recipients. That has not been done. There are patients who do not have their ID card on them because it is a family member who holds it, patients who do not know how to give their consent to hand over their card because they are in dementia or in palliative care. There are also concrete elements that are not taken into account. Let us take advantage of this exchange: you have granted 10%. You say that for 10% of benefits, you would like to cross this obligation, but what do these 10% correspond to? Which patients are these? What benefits are involved? I'm just giving you one example, that of a palliative care patient who's about to die in fifteen days, three weeks. This is a recent situation - two days ago. His ID's been out of date for a week. What are we doing in that case? Is this a 10% case? I think that is one of the things that should have been clarified and that must now be clarified in detail. Similarly, there is false information circulating to workers on how to read an identity card. I therefore expect your explanations and concrete information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u60	Mrs Van Camp, the decision was taken by the Committee on Nurses' Insurance and the RIZIV. The measure was therefore taken in consultation with the field of work and a transitional measure was indeed provided for until 1 October. The nurses were certainly aware of the new regulations in time. The aim was to improve the efficiency of cooperation between health care providers and health insurance funds and to prevent the illegal use of the nomenclature. You are strongly advocating today in the press that we should promote the efficiency of our health care, so we should do the same for everyone. The Agreement Committee agreed to this. Mrs Gerkens, as regards information to nurses and patients, you have not understood the communication strategy developed within INAMI. This communication aimed not only at the press but also at mutualities, which could then relay information on the Internet, via newsletters, etc. A website also has three pages entirely dedicated to this subject, for practitioners of nursing and also, in a specific way, for patients. The derogation from the rules is possible up to 10% of cases, including the fictitious case of a palliative patient, of whom you think he will die within 15 days. There is therefore indeed a possibility of a derogation and no electronic identity card should be read. Mrs Gerkens, the overrun of the 10% manual encoding will not result in a refusal of billing. The 10% margin is a reading threshold from which the INAMI control service, as part of its monitoring, may have to examine the reasons for this exceedance. Some cases have been quoted of certain software programs, not all of them. Some of them have already been resolved by the respective insurance institutions today. I have also asked, through my administration, that an overall evaluation be discussed by the Insurance Committee as early as 4 December. This evaluation will teach us how big the problem is, but the contact with insurance institutions shows that the problem is based on only a few software programs and that it needs to be solved. In cases of software programs with problems, there is certainly a tolerance policy on payments to nurses during an additional transitional period. So, Mrs Van Camp, there is no reason to fear that this will cause people to lose income. The services are doing everything they can. Moreover, the problems are particularly common to those who have not made use of the transitional period. Instead of checking whether the software package is working properly during a transitional period, they have used the software package to the full immediately from 1 October, the date from when it had to be done. So I think it's about childhood diseases that need to be remediated. It is certainly not the intention to throw the child away with the bath water.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You explain that the measure was already announced in 2015. In view of the lack of accompanying measures, it is clear that the sector has waited for investment until the measures were effective. Of course, it is only then that the problems with the use appear. I am pleased that you, as a doctor and minister, understand the problems and propose a policy of tolerance. I also hear you talk about the efficiency of care. Well, that can be done in all kinds of ways. We do not believe that an entire sector should be the victim of some bad apples in that sector. Effectiveness can also be achieved through a targeted control policy. For the sake of clarity, we cannot tolerate fraud, but the approach can be directed at those few rotten apples and does not have to fish the whole sector. I have seen that you understand the introduction of the electronic prescription sector by doctors. They were effectively delayed for six months. I have the corresponding minutes of the Insurance Committee here. I am pleased to hear that, as for the doctors, you also want to show that understanding to the nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u62	Mr. Chair, Minister, effective information campaigns are those that will find people where they are and that take into account how they can perceive the information. In general, we are talking about patients who find it difficult to understand what is required of them and who have little access to traditional information sites. I think it is the responsibility of a Minister of Health, when taking an evolutionary step like that, to ensure that all organizations of nurses, including independent nurses, that all mutuals, that all channels of information have been mobilized. Otherwise, the result is such a situation. Nurses and patients are hostage to a situation that has not been properly prepared. Yesterday, you announced that for doctors, you would leave a longer period for electronic prescription, with an entry into force on May 1 rather than January 1. I hope that you will also give nurses a transitional period to deal with all situations that are not clear to them or to patients. I also hope that the savings you are aiming for through this so-called anti-fraud mechanism will be reinvested in the sector to improve the quality of nursing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u63	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u64	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 November 2017, I propose: 1. to improve the title of the report as follows: - report by the parliamentary committee of inquiry responsible for finalising the mandate of the special committee on 'international tax fraud/Panama Papers', No. 2344/5. - Report by the Special Committee on the Panama Papers and International Tax Fraud, Nos 2749/1 and 2. 2. to be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Sébastian Pirlot, Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Eric Thiébaut and Mr Alain Top) on the announcement of Belgian military operations and exercises abroad, Nos 2309/1 to 3. - the appointment of an effective French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services, No. 2770/1. 3. postpone the draft law amending various provisions relating to pension schemes for employees and self-employed persons as regards the principle of unity of career and early retirement pensions, Nos 2676/1 to 6, to the plenum of 23 November 2017. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 November 2017, I propose: 1. correct the title of the report as follows: - Report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to finalize the mission of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers, No. 2344/5. - Report of the Special Committee on Panama Papers and International Tax Fraud, Nos. 2749/1 and 2. 2. to include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the motion for a resolution (MM. Stéphane Crusnière and Sébastian Pirlot, Julie Fernandez Fernandez and MM. Eric Thiébaut and Alain Top) on the publicity of Belgian military operations and exercises abroad, Nos. 2309/1 to 3. - the appointment of a Francophone effective member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, No. 2770/1. 3. to postpone to the plenary session of 23 November 2017 the bill amending various provisions relating to pension schemes for employed and self-employed persons, with regard to the principle of career unity and early retirement pension, Nos. 2676/1 to 6. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u65	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to the reports. I propose that you devote one discussion to these reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u66	The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proceedings follow a somewhat confused order. However, as rapporteur, I am pleased to join my colleagues in the committee in presenting our report to you. First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of this committee. Now I can imagine being unanimous! Anyway, I hope so. I would therefore like to thank Mr Laaouej for his involvement in our work, but also all the staff of the House of Representatives, as well as the experts of the committee. They have worked alongside our colleagues for many hours to identify the problem of international tax evasion raised by this new scandal, the Panama Papers. Our commission is therefore rooted in the above-mentioned scandal, a leak of 11.5 million documents related to Mossack Fonseca, a Panamanian firm whose main business is the formation of offshore companies. The existence of such procedures does not, of course, date back to the creation of this firm, but certain revelations, including the involvement of Belgian financial institutions, have revealed many questions which it was important to give an appropriate answer. A strong signal should be sent and these concerns should be addressed in an ambitious and coherent manner. This strong signal was reflected in the establishment of a special commission and a Panama Papers commission of inquiry to carry out a thorough examination of international tax fraud. For more than a year and a half, hundreds of hours of work were devoted to hearings and discussions. The result of this work is 132 recommendations which are now being put to Parliament's vote. As I was telling you, our committee has not had any taboos and has proposed, through these 132 recommendations, to make major progress in the fight against tax fraud. My colleague Robert Van de Velde will speak later on the first chapters. Despite this lack of logic, I will address the following chapters from chapter V. I would like to return in particular to the doctrine of Antigone. As a result of judicial differences, the question arose and it was therefore important to legislate. The question was whether the tax administration could rely on evidence collected illegally or irregularly. The right of the taxpayer was an imperative to respect in this context. It was therefore recommended that legislation should be drafted to clarify the fate of the irregularly collected and used evidence for tax purposes. In order to ensure legal certainty, this law will have to be based on the principle that the formalities and limitations of investigative powers must be respected by the tax administration on the penalty of nullity. It will therefore comply with the right of everyone. No evidence obtained in violation of an internationally recognized fundamental right may, under any circumstances, be used. In addition, the committee recommends an extension of the statute of limitations in the event of fraud; this is Recommendation No 69. The Special Commission shall notify that the international dimension of fraud warrants an extension of the limitation period to at least 10 years, when legal constructions are used in tax havens. The utility of the Cayman tax to discourage taxpayers from setting up legal constructions has been advanced. Of course, it must be refined and strengthened. What the Panama Papers Commission has also validated. It states that the legislation of the Cayman tax will be adapted in such a way that it is no longer possible to escape the qualification of founder of a legal construction within the framework of a so-called double structure; in such a way that discrimination between trusts and fiduciary structures on the one hand and foundations and offshore companies on the other hand is eliminated in respect of payments; in such a way that private collective management bodies such as the Luxembourg SICAV fall within the scope of the Cayman tax; in such a way that legal constructions held by de facto associations, in the case of genuine directors, fall within the scope of the application of the transparency tax; in such a way that the 15 % rule is made more practical in terms of the administration of evidence. But I would like to focus on the provisions contained in Chapters V and VI of the report on the status of liability and on raising the awareness of banks and tax advisers and on criminal procedure. For Chapter V, many of the progress made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on major tax fraud cases has been recalled in this report. In addition to these recommendations, the Committee recalls the importance of effective compliance for banking institutions and that this compliance is integrated into their way of doing business; this is Recommendation No 77. The proposal to introduce a banking oath was also included in this report, as advocated by the Optima Committee. In the context of the debate on the involvement of subsidiaries such as Experta and BIL in offshore tax schemes, the responsibility of intermediaries and tax boards, but also of the parent houses of some banks, was highlighted. Recommendation No. 81 states that there must be explicit liability in the head of the companies holding control of the tax fraud organised by the subsidiaries. Recommendation 83 provided for an array of sanctions that could be imposed on counselors and other co-sponsors and accomplices. Finally, recommendation 84 envisages the amendment of the Banking Act in order to allow the supervisory body to withdraw the bank licence from a bank where the bank has established a special tax evasion mechanism. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, the Minister of Justice has already launched a major reform of the Code of Criminal Investigation aimed at improving the efficiency of justice, including taxation. The Panama Papers Committee is committed to this and invites the Minister of Justice to draw on the recommendations made in the report. Among these recommendations, one chapter addresses the importance of the expanded criminal transaction. As a reminder, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Major Tax Fraud Cases has highlighted the need for a coherent system of agreements whereby the administration proposes to the taxpayer the payment of the tax plus a specified amount, the criminal proceedings being dropped. The recommendation of the time also suggested that these friendly settlements should be listed in a register submitted to the Court of Auditors and then to the House of Representatives by means of an annual report. This recommendation of the time led to the establishment of the extended criminal transaction. Subsequently, the legislative amendment of 5 February 2016 restricted the scope of this measure by making it impossible after a first conviction and by introducing a criminal record of this transaction. However, the Constitutional Court ruled that the procedure was contrary to articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. Its judgment considered the process of enabling the public service to extinguish the public action unconstitutional when an investigating judge was seized of the case without effective judicial review of the proposed transactions. Thus, during the hearings, the lack of control was highlighted as an important problem. However, the representatives of the Ghent Prosecutor's Office expressed their wish to maintain this mechanism by defining it as a fair and effective instrument in the fight against fraud. The Commission therefore underlines and endorses the intention of the Minister of Justice to respond to the Constitutional Court's ruling and to provide for effective control by a judge. The Panel recommends that reference amounts be set for fines that exceed the amount of taxes evaded for the determination of the total amount of the transaction, based on the fraud involved. It also recommends that at least indirect publicity be organised for transactions concluded. The Commission further recommends that a possible transaction be prohibited after the completion of the investigation. In its recommendation 94, the Committee recalls that the Minister must ensure that the criminal transaction concluded is postponed annually to the Court of Auditors, which in turn will report annually to the House of Representatives. In conclusion, we have therefore developed 132 recommendations that improve the fight against tax evasion. By respecting the general principles of law, the voting, by the vast majority and often even by unanimity, of the many recommendations gives us a sense of the work done well. We believe that the Panama Papers Committee's recommendations provide serious answers to the problem that we were asked to analyse. The MR Group will support the recommendations that are on the table today and will vote in favour of the report before you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, please send me the list of speakers in the general discussion. I now give the floor to Mr Dispa as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u69	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we did not agree in the committee on the text of the final report. We have not even managed, Mr President, to agree on how to report. I note that one of our co-rapporteurs is absent. If he wanted to speak now, I would gladly give it to him, since, in the order of precedence, there was a right. I hear he's on his way. It is a bit like, Mr President, our debates in committee. More than once, we have had to see absences, absences of quorums, which, at times overly, has increased the length of our debates. However, since it is now appropriate to conclude our work, I would like, if you may, to give you both a look at the report and, from time to time, to take a little freedom to express more clearly a personal opinion on behalf of my group. The Panama Papers scandal now dates back to eighteen months ago. Since then, there have been other scandals, such as the Paradise Papers, but at the time this was very shocking, as it was the largest data leak ever processed by a network of journalists. The treatment of these leaks highlighted the complex and sometimes unknown, hidden world of offshore finance and tax havens. The Panama Papers have allowed us, if necessary, to focus on the tax havens and assets that are hidden in these tax havens. The figures are impressive: one year of investigation, more than 100 media mobilised, more than 370 journalists, all to work on the decoding and cross-checking of more than 11 million documents internal to one of the world's largest offshore producers, the legal office Mossack Fonsecca. At the Belgian level, 732 names were cited. The Special Tax Inspectorate (SII) was able to recover some ten million euros. It hopes to reach a small hundred million when all the files have been processed. One hundred and fifty-eight cases are still open. That is to say, the work is far from over. At the time, these revelations had led to indignation and legitimate questioning about the links between advisers, intermediaries, banks and the phenomena of fraud and tax evasion. Questions were also raised about the effectiveness of Belgian legislation, as well as the measures to be taken at the international level. We were faced with practices that flirted with the border of legality as the revealed montages proved to be particularly aggressive. Mr President, I would like to address my first words as rapporteur to the journalists who have done this work. Frankly, they deserve to be thanked. The work they have done is simply remarkable. It is a committed work, of undeniably useful to reveal in the open the obscure manoeuvres, the transfers of wealth, the financial arrangements serving tens of thousands of people – businessmen, elected officials, celebrities, heirs, traffickers, criminals – in order to conceal their wealth. Some journalists have moved to be sometimes considered dwarfs. In fact, it must be said in this forum that they have carried out a major democratic work, a work of public safety by advancing the necessary transparency through the various revelations. OffshoreLeaks, LuxLeaks, SwissLeaks, Panama Papers, now Paradise Papers, the revelations follow each other. We must be grateful to these media for their work, which obliges us to become aware of certain realities and which obliges us or should oblige us to take stock of the phenomenon and the necessary corrective measures. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u70	I consider that these applause are addressed to journalists who have indeed earned them well. From the point of view of the press, our expectations were great not only to understand, but also to act. The Commission's ambition as defined at the beginning of the course was to shed all light on the Belgian aspect of the scandal with the mission to examine in particular the role played by certain financial intermediaries. We place a great deal of hope in our work. The stakes were important. He still is. This is an issue of fiscal fairness, but also of preserving national budgets. We have conducted numerous hearings for several months. Belgian journalists in the consortium were heard, the Big Fours, banks, CTIF, ISI, investigating judges, actors on the ground... A first report containing more than 100 recommendations had been prepared by the experts, who should also be thanked because they had been valuable and indispensable. We also carried out intensive work at the beginning of this first report. Without wishing to be exhaustive, because the report is too large and the purpose is not to read it in full, I would like to say that, for the cdH group, this report is not to be discarded. It has not been unanimous, but it contains important, interesting elements and useful progress. Here I would like to draw attention to recommendations 23 et seq., which call for legal status to be granted to whistleblowers, possibly with the possibility of compensation for the damage they would have to suffer as a result of their courage. I would also point out recommendation 21, which calls for the prohibition of relations between taxpayers and any legal construction established in a tax haven. Recommendation 35 contains a series of proposals to review the famous Cayman tax, which had to be found to contain a number of shortcomings and shortcomings. Recommendation 59 was also interesting. It proposes a country-by-country reporting in the head of multinationals. I would also point out recommendation 61, which calls for the adoption of the implementation, the establishment of analytical tools that are sufficiently efficient to process the data received in the context of the automatic exchange of information, which is already known that it will undoubtedly allow us to obtain more information and resources, but will still have to be processed. Finally, I also note the obligation to notify the CTIF, which the Commission considered should now apply in an effective manner to anyone who performs or dispenses tax advice, whether in the course of a main or secondary function. There are therefore positive elements, we must not deny that. On the other hand, I recognize a taste of too little. It is the analysis of the glass half full or half empty: if there are advances, there are also dissatisfactions. For my group, the Panama Papers scandal and those that followed demonstrate the direct consequences of the impunity of tax intermediaries, the consequences of the lack of European tax harmonisation and the lack of ambition for our public services in charge of combating tax fraud. In order to report on this document, it is necessary not only to clarify its content but also to be able to say what is missing. Interesting debates have taken place on amendments which could have enriched it. Most of them, however, have not been retained, which is why I want to share this sense of frustration. For me, there are five problems which are, if not absent, at least insufficiently taken into account in the report we are submitting to you. The first is the most important in my view: the problem of the means that we give to the public services in charge of combating tax fraud. I mentioned here last week in my inquiry to the Minister of Finance in charge of the fight against international tax fraud that it would not be reasonable to put on the government's back an obligation of results. One can never prevent a big fortune, an inveterate fraudster or a financial criminal from trying to evade the tax by resorting to avoidance schemes, especially in tax havens. But collectively, we must impose an obligation of means without an obligation to achieve results. It is here, in my view, that the report is sinning because every time we have taken the initiative to include in the recommendations the granting of additional resources for the benefit of those involved in the fight against tax fraud, we have, unfortunately, been confronted with an end to not receiving it. Whether it is the public prosecutor's office, the Transfer Pricing Unit, the OECDFO, the CTIF or the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, in none of the cases it was possible to obtain a recommendation asking for additional resources. Honestly, it is a deficiency that removes a great deal of strength and scope from the report that we are going to adopt. To illustrate this point, I would like to take a very eloquent example, namely that of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes. The majority – since it is necessary to speak of majority and opposition – for a few months or even a few years has been proud to have recruited a hundred additional agents. Analysis of the figures shows that in reality these hundred additional agents were not enough to compensate for natural departures. As a result, there has been a decrease in the number of staff. The ISI boss is a respected man. We have heard this on several occasions in the Finance Committee, regardless of the work of the Panama Papers Committee. He objected to his needs. According to him, they would amount to about 722 agents. This is a figure that is not overstated in relation to the approximately 640 agents currently identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u71	Mr Van Biesen, you are asking for the floor, but for the record, we are now working on the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u72	Mr President, I do not see much of a report here, and rather a speech, which I fully appreciate. I cannot help but interrupt when things are said that have nothing to do with the report. I know Mr Dispa as a very correct man. If he refers to Mr Philipsen, I would like him to repeat what is in the annex. Mr Philipsen made it clear that there was no need for additional recruitment to the BBI. So he never argued for more men at the BBI at any time when he was there. However, we asked him three times to come to the Panama Papers Committee. In other words, I do not understand the example that would lead the BBI to ask for more people. The BBI has never asked people again, quite the contrary. Mr Philipsen has asked for the right resources and opportunities. That is not, therefore, the presentation of the written report. What was said does not correspond to the interview we had with Mr Philipsen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u73	I ask the rapporteurs to stick to their role. They will then be able to return and intervene as they wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u74	Mr President, for the sake of order of business, in fact, the various chapters could have been divided between the various rapporteurs. Mr Dispa chose to comment at the same time as referring to the report. I imagine that it is probably by ease and that he no longer necessarily wanted to intervene afterwards, although he has the opportunity to do so at every moment. I just want to report to Mr. Van Biesen, since it is on this subject that he questions Mr Dispa, that at the hearing of the ISI, there is not only Mr Philipsen to have been heard. Other regional directors also came and were concerned that the recruitments that had been announced would not arrive; they also referred to the problem of natural departures. Mr van Biesen, you will allow me not to necessarily trust what you say. I just wanted to clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u75	I can only repeat that it would not be a bad thing if the rapporteurs kept to their task as rapporteur in the first instance. They can then speak at any time, as a speaker or in the event of interruptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u76	Mr President, I will follow your advice: since you prefer a brief report, I will then keep my speaking time for the debate just now. However, I would not like it to be thought that this report is exhausting the discussions we have had. There are interesting indications, but other aspects are not included. It is on this point that I wanted to stress: the documents, the recommendations, the positions that have not been taken. But I will come back to that later in the discussion. In conclusion, I would like to thank all the speakers. I have already greeted journalists and experts. In turn, I would like to greet the President. I found that the majority's congratulations to him were duplicitous. Objectively, he did not spare his time to try to reach a consensus text, before being somewhat divised by the majority, so that this desire for consensus could not be honoured. It is your choice; it belongs to you. It's up to you now. Suffer, Mr Van Biesen, that we are not at this rostrum to weave a crown of laurel. Mr. Scourneau expressed his sense of the work accomplished. As rapporteur, I would like to say to him that I consider that we have done a useful job – certainly – and that this document may be of interest, but I do not have a sense of duty. On the contrary, I feel a great frustration. Mr Scourneau, I think it is shared by all observers, especially by all those who took the time to come to our committee to give us their testimony. At this very moment, I am thinking of Judge Claise, knowing that it is enough to mention him to give buttons to the majority. To the limit, whatever his personality, his observation was objective. He denounced a lack of resources and he was not the only one because many witnesses spoke in this regard. Unfortunately, the majority listened deafly to them. That is what I wanted to say as a preamble, but I will come back later to complete my remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u77	Mr Dispa, you are registered as a speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u78	Mr President, excuse me for intervening, but my colleague Benoît Dispa, in his great correction, stops here in his speech. He'll go back to the gallery later. Having said that, I find that your speech and that of Mr. Van Biesen are incorrect and variable geometry. Mr Scourneau, if your report is objective, say that the work is being done and that everything is going well and that, basically, everything has gone well, it is a political position. We found ourselves unable to agree on how the report could be distributed. It's not okay. On this double speech with variable geometry, depending on who makes the report and who makes the political analysis, I cannot join you. Benoît Dispa will be back later, but I wanted to make that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u79	You're right, Mrs. Fonck. That is why I asked to stick to the report. I know that there has been a discussion on this report itself, but the terms of parliamentary work require first of all...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u80	Mr. Scourneau, however, did not make an objective report either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u81	On and on acte.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u82	I propose to continue our work. We'll have space to trade.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u83	Mr President, I think Mr Dispa très sympa, but that is not what this is about. When a number of things are said during the report, it is logical to intervene. I have not in any way made a comment on Mr Dispa's interventions, but on the fact that he made a certain communication on behalf of the BBI, which is not correct according to several people from the BBI who have been with us. No one, but no one from the BBI has asked for more staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u84	I therefore ask all the rapporteurs to stick to the report. I now give the floor to Mr Van de Velde, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u85	Dear friends, in this setting those words may be less applicable, but still, I have some. Dear people, I would like to apologize in advance in case I repeat things. I had been informed that we would start around 16:30. I was here just after 16:30. I apologize for my lateness. It is therefore possible for me to say something double, but the potential agreement was that we would divide the work among the reporters so that we would not have to hear double opinions and reports each time. I shall therefore confine myself to Chapters I, II and III and the section on the Cayman tax in Chapter IV. Chapter I of the report deals with the role of the National Bank as a supervisor. The role of the financial institution supervisor has already been addressed in the Optima Committee. For example, we see the recommendations of the Optima Committee, Chapter VI, in this context, literally, with a few improvements, coming back to the recommendations 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 contained in the first chapter of this report. The Special Committee on Panama Papers recommends that the requirement of double incriminating be abolished in the concept of'special mechanisms'. The requirement for a criminal offence to be proven shall also lapse. The reporting obligation will apply as soon as the supervisor establishes concrete elements, by analogy with tax legislation, Article 318 of the Income Tax Code 1992. The list of special mechanisms should be updated and there should be ongoing consultation between the regulator and the tax authorities, as well as maximum cooperation between the Belgian regulator and the other euro area countries. The discussion on the role of supervisor focused mainly on its tax control powers. The recommendations do not extend to the acquisition by the National Bank of fiscal control powers. The National Bank has prudential supervision as its basic task. In other words, it must take care of the financial risks of financial institutions. The National Bank of Belgium is the only financial sector supervisor in the euro area to have a fiscal obligation. No other supervisor has even a marginal competence in tax matters. For this purpose, we refer in the report to the hearing with the National Bank of Belgium and to the report of the hearings prepared by the experts in document 54-2749. Because Belgium has transferred its full monetary sovereignty to the European level, the final word on the tasks of the National Bank of Belgium lies with the European Central Bank. It is important to refer to this. After all, it is established in the Maastricht Treaty and the Treaty of Lisbon. Chapter II is devoted to anti-money laundering legislation. Although the anti-money laundering legislation is enshrined in the Fourth Anti-money laundering Directive, we note that there is no complete European harmonisation in the area of the ban on cash payments and tax fraud. It is therefore important to promote harmonisation at European level with regard to electronic payments, the ban on cash and the concept of tax fraud as a money laundering offence. Belgium must play a leading role in this respect. During the hearings, the CFI already explained the effective exchange of information between financial intelligence units with the other European countries. The Panama Commission believes that an overarching European body would promote cooperation in the investigation of money laundering and terrorist financing. During the hearings, several speakers said that the concept of "serious tax fraud" is difficult to define in practice. They asked for a better definition of the concept. Nevertheless, the Panama Commission makes a different choice. Reporting agents should identify the underlying crime. Consequently, they should not determine whether it is ordinary or serious tax fraud or any other reported underlying money laundering offence. They should only verify whether there is a suspicion of money laundering arising from the actual circumstances or the nature of the operation. The CFI will investigate the notification further and, if necessary, qualify the underlying money laundering crime before the CFI passes it on to the parquet. The reporting agents are also requesting party to get more feedback from the CFI on the quality of the notifications made, what you do in Recommendation No. Twenty-two is back. Compliance with the reporting obligation should not result in obliged institutions, in particular financial institutions, carrying out a sectoral risk analysis and excluding customers operating in a particular sector. Tax fraud is not combated by sectors. We have cited the two examples in committee, namely to expel diamonds and second-hand vehicles from our country or even from Europe because they no longer have access to the financial system. If there is no economy, there is of course no fraud. Only then will that economy develop elsewhere, avoiding any national or European control. During the hearings it was also pointed out that only the recognised professions are obliged to do so. They argue that the type of advice for constructions with tax havens is provided by non-approved tax advisors. In order to create a level playing field, recommendation No. 16 that the reporting obligation should apply to any person providing tax advice as a self-employed person in the main and secondary professions. In order to promote the quality of the notifications, it is also recommended that recommendations Nos 17 and 18 are made subject to an examination according to the model of the FSMA. The professional institutes should also play an active role in raising awareness of compliance with anti-money laundering legislation and effectively monitoring their members. Control is an important element. The reports and public authorities heard also raised the problem of the identification of the final beneficiaries to the special committee. Large organisations use expensive international databases for this purpose. The creation of the UBO register offers governments, reporting agents and anyone who has a legitimate interest the opportunity to identify the final beneficiary in an efficient way. The automatic exchange of UBO data is essential and Belgium should therefore advocate this at international level. One of the characteristics of a tax haven is that they hide the underlying, final beneficiaries through screen constructions. Tax havens therefore do not participate in the exchange of UBO data. Therefore, Recommendation No. 21 prohibiting taxable persons from having economic relations with legal arrangements established in tax havens where they have no real economic activity. We shall come back to that later in the debate. This ban, of course, requires the necessary supervision by the tax authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, Chapter III concerns the status of whistleblowers. The characteristic feature of LuxLeaks, SwissLeaks and Panama Papers is that they came to light every time after theft of data by private individuals; one cannot qualify it differently. These whistleblowers, clickers or whatever one wants to call them reveal a relevant social problem. It is not the case that the basis, the start, the loss of data, does not lead to a relevant social problem. Let us clearly distinguish them from each other. This is, of course, at odds with the interests of other people. It is therefore necessary to hold an open civil debate with civil society in order to develop protection for whistleblowers in both the private and public sectors. The legal impact should be strictly framed in order to take account of a balanced protection of all rights in force in order to prevent false information and accusations. It is not intended to reward them for the stolen data, but rather to protect them from damage following the release of the accused facts of general interest. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the section on the legal structures and the caiman tax. The introduction of the Cayman tax under this government is generally assessed as positive. Cayman tax has discouraged taxpayers from setting up or maintaining legal arrangements. The practice shows that the Cayman tax can be further refined, as clarified in Recommendation No. 35. Recommendation No. 34 provides for a new reporting obligation for legal arrangements under tax and financial intermediaries at the Anti-Fraud Coordination Service, called CAF. This takes into account the already existing money laundering obligation and the introduction of the mandatory manual disclosure for offshore structures and structures that circumvent the CRS reporting. That's recommendation No. 40. During the hearings, it was noted that the fine for failure to declare legal arrangements may be too high or too low, depending on the circumstances. In so far as compatible with the criminal law principle non bis in idem as explained by Professor Franssen, the administrative fine is differentiated. Ladies and gentlemen, these were the nude elements from Chapters I, II and III and the Cayman tax section.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u86	Mr President, I will be very brief because I do not want to report on a report that is being proposed here and has been produced in such a way. So I am not giving an oral report on the discussions, just explaining why I am not reporting. I have even considered having my name deleted from the report as a reporter, but apparently that is not possible. If you don't mind, I'll give you my reasons. A year and a half ago, the special committee on Panama Papers and international tax fraud was set up, and for more than a year there was excellent work in that committee. The experts have done a fantastic job and the committee members have cooperated thoroughly in order to do a good job. Shortly before the summer, however, everything has come into a completely different light. The experts had prepared a nice report, which they had worked hard on. Normally, in any committee of inquiry or special committee, that is the report on which the debate is based in plenary. This majority considered it appropriate to do it differently and considered it appropriate to draw up an alternative report, as an amendment to the expert report. The report of the experts was pushed completely aside and a report from the majority had to be presented. Mr President, I believe that this is a sign of contempt for the work of the experts. I believe that it also shows contempt for the work of the opposition committee members, who were good enough to be present at the hearings and to ask questions, but who were no longer welcome at the time when the report was to be written. And so there came a report from the majority, which was by taking or leaving the opposition. It was a report which the majority was not even allowed to have the slightest amendment here and there. For this reason, given the contempt of the majority for the work of the experts and for the work of the opposition members, I will not report on this report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u87	Mr Vanvelthoven, I would like to comment very briefly on what you said about the report. If you say something like that, you can only expect us to tell you how things went in reality. The reality is that the majority too, together with the President-in-Office, I have not yet said it here, but I think that he has done a wonderful job, has done everything possible to reach a consensus. Since you speak in front of the gallery, I will speak in front of the gallery. There have been several meetings between our collaborators, including those of the opposition, but at the time of the truth a number of dogmas and niches were handed along because of a number of opposition parties. I have every respect that you do not want to see certain things in the report, but you must also respect that we want to see some things in the report, because they have been discussed and because they are part of a good policy. So there has been no conflict between majority and opposition about trying to reach a consensus, but there has actually been opposition from both sides. Again, I leave in the middle who is right and wrong, but that was based on a number of themes that you just didn't want to see in the report. So if you tell us today that you have had to swallow a report, then you have to ask yourself why you asked the majority at some point to leave a number of issues out of the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u88	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this. I have no problem with our differences of opinion. That is also what this Parliament is doing, to show where we differ. My point is that the majority did not want the report of our experts to be used as a basis for the discussions. We and you would have been able to say what we thought about it, and then we would have had a report that might not have deviated far from this report, but that would have been another way of working. The majority has chosen to put aside the experts' report, to amend it with a completely new report, which was proposed only within the majority. That's my point. That we differ, the more, the better. That's really not my problem. My problem is how to work. I regret that because it should be the intention, especially in a committee which does not intend to amend a law, but to put the fight against tax fraud on track for the next ten years, in order to use what the experts in our committee have suggested to us. We do not all have to agree to use it as a basis. You did not want that, and that is my point of criticism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u89	Mr Vanvelthoven, the majority document submitted is more than 90% based on the documents provided by the experts and it was supplemented by the discussions that have taken place with all the members of the majority and with colleagues from the Socialist Party and Green and Ecolo. We have distilled and submitted a document because, as Mr Van de Velde has just said, we were right to fear that large parts of the work done by the experts, such as the friendly settlement, Antigoon and many other issues, would be removed from the report in order to obtain a consensus. We argued that this was an integral part of the discussion and that it should therefore be included in the report, whatever the views are, whoever has a majority. That's the essence of the story. The experts, both Mr Bourgeois and Mr Delanote, have also recently said in the French and Dutch press that most of their recommendations were included in these texts. I would like to nuance what you are saying, in particular that we have come up with a completely new text. May I remind you that 97 of the 132 recommendations were adopted unanimously? May I point out that there was only a vote against by the opposition in eight recommendations? The others were abstinences. Of the 132 recommendations, eight received a vote against. So that was not a majority vote against. How, then, can we say that this report was forced on by the majority? This is a report by the experts, widely held and supplemented with visions of employees. That is how we arrived at this report. This report contains all the elements that have been discussed in the Panama Commission, because we wanted all the elements in this House to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u90	Mr President, we will not create a debate about how things have happened, but this is symptomatic. One day exegesis and comparison of texts would have to be carried out before and after the majority took over. We had a text whose basis was the work of the experts. It had been drawn up in lengthy sessions, despite, it must be admitted, some difficulties in reaching a majority and opposing agreement. At one point, a temporal ellipse took place. The work stopped, in a dark room advised by no one knows who. The majority has reworked the texts and its objective has clearly been to blur certain recommendations, to remove all the binding nature of them, to use euphemisms to finish and to stay at wishful thinking by saying, "perhaps, one day". However, this Parliament was expected to make clear statements, ambition. Unfortunately, there is an extraordinary form of hypocrisy in Mr. Van Biesen, which we hear here, and in Mr. Van de Velde, who will tell you, hand over hand over heart, that they did intend to fight tax fraud. At the end of the proceedings, however, they had no other objective than to remove its ambitions from the text. Fortunately, we still have the provisions that we voted with the majority and that were recorded by our experts following the hearings and field testimonies that we received. Some proposals are even the result of texts and amendments that we have tabled ourselves and tried to defend to the end, because we are up to the point of the parliamentary procedure. But the majority has sabotaged the finalization of the work of this commission of inquiry, and that is not acceptable. She must be able to justify herself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not dwell on this for too long. Mr Gilkinet, what I would like to say is that your view of the course of events is absolutely incorrect. Perhaps the President would like to explain this further. The split between majority and opposition did not arise in a back room, but in the working group, in which we said from the majority that we do not want to delete any parts of the text. That's the only breakup. At that point, our paths are separated. It has nothing to do with what we wanted or didn't want. It has to do with the fact that the opposition asked for some issues to be removed, but we did not want to remove them. After all, if we continue in this trend, everyone can start asking for pieces of text to be left out. That is why we said that we did not want to leave out texts. That's the only reason for the breakup. I think that truth should be known.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u92	Mr President, I did not want to take the floor anymore, but I am encouraged by Mr Van de Velde. Mr van de Velde, you are now making it appear as if you have not omitted from the experts' report by a majority. We have tabled more than 60 amendments, and most of them contain documents that the experts had proposed, but which were voted down by the current majority. Your claim that you would have taken over the experts' report completely is bullshit. Let us remain a little serious. Several parts of the experts' report have not been taken up and amendments have tried to get some of them back in, but that was rejected by the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u93	I assume that this is a form of humour of our colleague who laughs, who smiles, of offbeat humour when he says that the right has not removed anything from the report. Not only did they delete many recommendations but they even eliminated entire chapters. For example, the chapter on tax regularization has been completely out of the way. There is really a coup d'état that has been carried out by the right which has effectively privatized the debate in a totally undemocratic way, since in fact the debate has moved from the House to a form of an anti-chamber of the majority. They talked to each other. We don't know who we're with. We don't know about whose advice. Perhaps the Council of the Cabinet of the Minister of Finance? I don't know. Perhaps the minister will be able to say if he has intervened in this occult work? In any case, we have totally left this democratic forum and the debate has taken place elsewhere. It was elsewhere that it was decided what the report would be. That is the reality of what happened in this committee or rather outside this committee!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u94	Mr President, I would like to move on to the order of business and to the content of the report on the Panama Papers, not on what might or may not have been done in backrooms. I do not think we can say that this report has been drawn up with recommendations in the back rooms, because a number of additions have also been made in committee, on the basis of the discussion with the opposition. Yes, you're right, we're not all very satisfied with this report with recommendations. It could have been better. It's gotta be better. It would have been better if this had been done in consensus, opposition and majority. I fully agree with that. But the reality of the discussions has shown that if we had to achieve this with the opposition and the majority, it would not have been possible. I am very pleased that, as the only parliament in Europe, we have used the Panama Papers as an opportunity to produce a report with recommendations, which hopefully will improve our tax fraud system much. That's what matters to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u95	Mr President, I would like to make a proposal to all colleagues. We can still spend a lot of time doing all the feedback from the working groups, etc., but we may spend the evening and the night there. In my view, there are enough differences between us on the substance of the recommendations than to avoid a discussion of the procedure that led to the disagreement. Let us focus on the disagreement rather than what led to the disagreement. This will save us several hours. That's a suggestion I'm making. It seems to me that it is better for us to come back to the bottom.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u96	Finally, a wise word!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u97	Mr President, I have already said that the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry has also done a good job. He'll prove that again. Thank you, Mr Laaouej. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not lose sight of why we are here today. How did things get here? What was the occasion? How is it that we are having a very broad debate today on tax fraud and avoidance, perhaps also on corporate taxation and how we deal with our taxation? I would like to remind you that there are two reasons. The first is a direct cause. Colleagues, the immediate cause is the leaked papers, which have, by the way, been put forward in various dossiers. The leaked papers brought to light that some people don't take it so closely with certain rules. Some of us have done that in violation of the law. They wanted to commit fraud. Others have done so to maximize their profits. It is important for Parliament to take this decision and do something about it. Moreover, we must not be deceived by a conflict of perception, which is absolute and which is the direct reason for the way in which the data in question is presented and filtered. It seems to me that no one here in the Chamber is putting his hand in the fire to ensure that all the data that has come from the various leaks has actually been all the data. I hope that everyone here in the Chamber finds it strange that certain nationalities hardly appear in the papers. It may also be rather striking that the entertainment sector is currently being included in the United States, but that otherwise there are no industrialists in the file. There is no one in it who participates effectively in the important American and international economic life. On the other hand, a number of people are on the radar, such as the Queen and the 'Muscles from Brussels', about which we got a wonderful story. Again, there's no American big business people in there unless I'd missed them, which I'm asking for a change. Then someone better tell me who. The fact that we are faced with a perception battle, a perception battle initiated and filtered elsewhere, perhaps also targeted, has meant and unintended effects. One intended effect is, quite simply, to stimulate the social debate we are having, and I shall come back to that even more. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I also hope that everyone will look around with the necessary criticalness in this regard too, the competitiveness between states is an important factor. To those who argue that this is not ethical or irresponsible, let me say that the competition for the preservation of industry, employment and prosperity, which is taking place internationally between states today, is the final subject of the debate we are having today. We are doing this through a very important debate on, among other things, potential fraud and avoidance. Once again, I am not putting these problems under the carpet, but I would like to tell you that the discussion we are supposed to have is a double discussion. It is not just a discussion about how our tax system works and who the practitioners are, but also a discussion about how we tackle fraud and evasion in order to achieve two objectives. The first objective is economic prosperity and the development of the welfare and welfare state, as we have done so far. The second relates to fiscal justice. I have seen this all the time in the discussions, keeping the two in balance, was the big problem in the ideological discussions that have been there. That balance between the two is crucial. The fight on taxation is not just between states, dear friends. One of the more striking moments for me, at least in the last few weeks, was when one of my fellow Members asked for the company Nike O'Brien, which I had not mentioned by name, but I am now going to bring it to Parliament to explain what it is like. Apart from the fact that we would ask questions to such a company, the question arises immediately anyway. I did not ask them at that time what with amazon.com. It is not because a company today has an establishment in a particular area, that it has to be subject to different conditions, economic and in reality, than an Internet company. The debate in which we are slipping today, which I hope we will pay a little more attention to in the future, concerns the evolution of taxation over the coming years. Where are we today? Today we have a number of traditional economies, where companies fulfil obligations on the basis of their location. But these companies are now competing in a market with companies that are absolutely unsuitable. That fact, that element, causes competition not only to take place between countries, but also between types of business, in the disruptive economy. There are smaller states such as Belgium and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u98	Mr. President, Mr. Van de Velde quoted me indirectly. It was I who proposed on Tuesday that the Finance Committee could invite various interlocutors mentioned in the Paradise Papers, including the Nike firm. The case is illustrative. The company is based in Belgium, makes significant profits, transfers the largest part of its profits to the Netherlands thanks to a ruling, and pays almost no tax here in Belgium. This is a fundamental problem for us, as is a fundamental problem – treated in Ecofin meeting – the way we tax what we call GAFAs, Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple, to which we sometimes add Microsoft, and all the internet platforms, including hotel night booking platforms that are literally looting our economy. These websites that offer hotel reservations realize profits thanks to the work of our hoteliers, investors here in Belgium, and do not pay taxes in our country. How long are we going to accept it? Mr Van de Velde, why don't you and the members of the majority agree to mobilise to ensure that profits are taxed where they are made? It's an emergency for us. I have therefore proposed to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance that we should be able to question these economic interlocutors, to question those responsible for the ruling service in order to identify this problem and to find solutions. There are beginnings of solution in our report. At our request, there is a commitment to provide for a country-by-country reporting for multinational companies. They must indicate in their annual report the employment created in our country, the profits made in our country, the taxes paid in our country so that we can clearly identify in a public document where the problem is and then act. If we refuse to oblige these multinational companies to come and explain ourselves to this parliament, if we refuse to amend the laws to ensure that what is immoral to me – not to pay a contribution on the profits made when we take advantage of the Belgian infrastructures – becomes illegal, then we will continue to let ourselves go as a public authority and suffer extraordinary deficits solely for the benefit of the multinationals and their shareholders. We must put an end to this and this ambition is unfortunately not included in the report of our special committee. I do not feel in the majority leadership an ambition to move forward on this subject, when it is an essential issue for the future, given the proliferation of this digital economy and its growing importance. That's why I asked for us to meet Nike. If you want us to see Amazon and other interlocutors too so that we can explain with them, let's do it! Let them come and explain themselves and make up the rules that will make sure that tomorrow there is more tax justice in our country and elsewhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u99	Mr Gilkinet, I am very happy to hear that, because that is just the conclusion I will make. The way in which the perception battle is waged today is the wrong one. It's not like Nike is the big bogeyman today. Nike has three to four thousand employees in the Kempen and makes good use of them all. We are talking about a lot of low-skilled people, by the way. I should leave that explanation to Mrs Smaers. She's a regional expert, but I'm already getting some preparation. At the same time, there are spin-offs to a pack of SMEs, including suppliers. At the same time, the company also brings innovation in the field of logistics. On inland waterways there will be a docking port. It can be used not only by the company itself, but also by a series of companies. The second double morale is that we are screaming murder and fire in the area of taxation because companies that employ people and offer a future to our region seem to be trying to get some sort of profit out of it. There are, of course, different levels of profitability. Don't get me wrong, but at the same time we have spent incredibly much money in companies we knew in advance that they were doomed to death. For some, the tax element is apparently not the same as the subsidy element. For me, that's exactly the same, because it's about taxpayers' money. If that tax money is used properly, so that it can create a future, then I have a very different feeling about it than when one invests through a culture of subsidies in matters that are known to have no future. Over the last few weeks, I have been able to see that double morale perfectly, due to the perceptive struggle that is being waged in the field of taxation. I'll add one more thing, because I'm way closer to your piste than you think. On the element of competition between companies and between the different types of companies, Internet companies are today much more difficult to grasp, because we do not know exactly where they achieve their turnover and profits, and there are still differences between them. This is a discussion that we had at various times during the drafting of this report. I fully agree that there should be no construction in tax havens unless there is an economic activity there. Our dredgers are the perfect example of that. They are active in different parts of the world. They will also have to set up an organisation there. The complete prohibition of this is not the right way to avoid that there are still constructions. Controlled guidance is the path we must follow. This is exactly the same discussion as the one that recently unwinded about the administration, which Andorra asked to provide information. This isn't a crime! On the other hand, it is just the way in which we must act in the future. We will have to look at these questions and we will probably be able to impose our own conditions. At that time one can offer to arrive at an economic comparison, under certain conditions. Let us think of conditions of transparency, minimum taxes and so on. The plea I have made so far is a plea for moderation, in which we are not merely guided by the perception struggle that a number of people want. We must try to maintain a balance between the economy and fair taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u100	Mr President, I refuse to see our position reduced to a battle of perception. One can take the example of Nike who offers employment in a region where it is useful to do so, who offers employment to less qualified people, but who, in total, pay only 2% or 3% tax through a secret agreement with our tax administration. Around Nike, there is a series of SMEs. There is certainly a butcher, a baker, a plumber, a heating operator, a garage operator, a whole series of trades that pay them 33% income tax. There is extraordinary inequality between economic actors. In doing so, there is a risk that there will no longer be support for the principle of paying tax. That is why we must create transparency on this type of ruling and ensure that everyone pays a tax where they realize their profits, which is not the case for the company mentioned. In addition, you have set an example of economic activity in tax havens. We've been talking about it for quite a while. I tabled an amendment, which was accepted half by the majority – and I thank him for that – even though I have to admit that I am quite angry that she refused the other half. This amendment seeks first of all to prohibit an activity, the presence of a Belgian company in tax havens, unless it develops a real economic activity there. Indeed, from time to time it is necessary to dig a canal in Panama, but if all Belgian companies dug canals there, there would be only canals in Panama! This amendment was also intended to know - a common sense condition - the real and final economic beneficiary of the operation, which you refused. In doing so, you play the game of tax fraudsters who love the dark, who like to hide behind structures that do not allow to find the final economic beneficiary. They're the trustees. By refusing this second part of our amendment, you have shown that you do not want to learn all the lessons from Panama Papers. We will have to fight for many more years for more tax justice and to put an end to these unbearable mechanisms when we advocate equality between taxpayers, which we will do because we are tough.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u101	I wish this wouldn't be drawn to bottles. Mr Gilkinet, one of your concerns is entirely right and we all share it: a minimum fair contribution to economic activity in our own country. That is precisely why a corporate tax reform has been prepared, including a minimum ceiling for the contribution. It partly eliminates the difference in taxation between large companies, SMEs and small self-employed persons, not entirely, not at all, but in part. That is precisely one of the objectives of the corporate tax reform, for which we are all asking parties. That is not in the recommendation report, but there are many things that we are working on and which are not included in this report either because it is already being worked on or because it was not entirely within the scope of the Panama Papers. I also refer to the important work that has to be done at European level, because, as a very small country with a very small hub in all these international transactions, we cannot do this alone, despite the fact that we do have and share that ambition and objective. I would stress that very important European work is also being done at the moment. Firstly, the European directive ATAD (Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive), which can be very important to counter this. Secondly, the Common Corporate Tax Base, which aims at a common corporate tax base for all European Member States. These are very important instruments to tackle just what you have in mind. You should not draw the work of opposition and majority on bottles here. Yes, these are the starting points, but we must make it clear where this work should be done. You must not say that nothing is being done in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u102	I would like to join what Mrs Smaers says. Mr Gilkinet, we have had 25 meetings and more than a hundred hours. We have made recommendations on the basis of the expert report. You give the impression and your conclusion is that we, the majority, are playing the game of the great fraudsters. This majority is in the throes of the large fraud mechanisms and does not want to do anything about it. Well, Mr Calvo, initiatives have been taken at European level, such as BEPS and ATAD. When it comes to rulings, the Minister of Finance was the first to allow the exchange of rulings. Think of the discussion about LuxLeaks with Luxembourg. We go very far in removing banking secrecy by bringing forward the banking investigation. I am also thinking of Recommendation No. 21, Mr Gilkinet. I hope you can still read, because in your ideological blindness you seem to be unable to read any more text. Recommendation No. 21 begins as follows: "Forbidden are relations of taxpayers with legal arrangements established in tax havens where they have no real economic activity." And in Recommendation No. 36 raises the whole problem of tax havens. We also call for it to be legally anchored. At European level, the Minister is now working on the definition of tax havens. We have made it clear that sanctions must be imposed as soon as there is a tax haven. We are also going to review economic activities. So there are many elements. The impression is given that Belgium is inadequate in this respect. Now, next week the report from the European Parliament will come out. Some of you went to the TAXE working group on several occasions, chaired by the Frenchman Lamassoure. There are several colleagues who are part of it in the European Parliament. With us it is Tom Vanonderdelaere who sits in the European Parliament. There are a lot of recommendations that come out there. However, I have not seen anywhere, contrary to what I have heard, that we would be below the bar in our recommendations. I would like to endorse what has just been said. Be specific, Mr Gilkinet. What kind of provision should be added to the report, in accordance with European directives, OECD directives and discussions in the European Council of Ministers? What would you like to amend to that text, so that we in Belgium can actually get a better grip on it at a time when there is a lot of international activity? In the European Parliament, all Member States are actually saying the same thing as we are. I was surprised by that. In Sweden too, including the United Kingdom, when it was a member, everyone has this concern. I also regret that our committee has had an ideological discussion in the long term. In this ideological debate it was said: 'We are the ones who want to fight fraud, but the others do not want to do so'. I still wonder if you can give us five specific points in the report...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u103	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u104	Mr Vanvelthoven, you will have to clarify the amendments later. First, tell us where our recommendations fall short. Our recommendations are in line with European directives. One should not write in there something that is not worthy of standing up at European level, some ideological senses or anything like that. I would also like to make the point that Mr Van de Velde has already made. We're a small country. The more the tax base is harmonised, and there is plenty of work to do, there will of course be more competition between Member States in terms of tariffs. Last week we saw the discussion with the Netherlands. Then everyone said that the dividend tax here is 30%, while in the Netherlands it is 0 %. This has an effect on our competitive position. Couples, as a country, that competition is what it is, is very self-centered, in every Member State. The multinationals are, of course, playing the countries against each other. Well, we need to ensure that there is coordination at European level and that tariffs are more harmonised. Of course, the large countries are much stricter in this respect than the smaller countries, because they work more with large companies. The lobbying is much bigger there too. You transport that to our Parliament, and you say that the Belgian Parliament is actually playing the game of multinationals. You want to invite Nike. You want to invite all the big companies. But, Mr Gilkinet, where are those files? I asked Lars Bové in the seventh day, where those files are. The Minister said here last week that these files are still not visible to the tax authorities, and that it is even necessary to pay for a number of things in Germany that can be dealt with. The legal question is then, as we have experienced with the Optima Committee, and as was also discussed in the debate on the Anti-Gun Judgment, whether illegally obtained files do not play the game of multinationals, which can escape in this way. My speech may be long, but I would like to point out that there are many technical aspects to this problem, and for this reason I do not accept the fact that all this work, which has taken a year and a half, is done with one ideological one-liner. The experts and our colleagues have done a wonderful job. The hearings were always held at a high level and without ideological discussions. The fact that this work is now being mowed away if the majority play together with the multinationals is a sad end to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u105	Mr President, I am contesting the ideological qualification. Our position on the fight against tax fraud is extremely pragmatic. Tax fraud costs, according to Belgian or international academic estimates, between EUR 10 billion and EUR 30 billion per year. Let's say it's twenty billion euros a year. Twenty billion, that is 2,000 euros per Belgian or 8,000 euros per family with two children, much more than all the effects of the tax shift and other policies you have decided. To complete the work of the RER costs ten billion euros. I'm going to be very concrete. Ten billion euros is the education budget of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. Mr Van Rompuy, you are quoting recommendation 21. I know her. I have tabled an amendment which, in part, has been accepted by the majority on the subject, namely that real economic activity must be justified in order to be in tax havens. On the other hand, the majority rejected the second part of my amendment stating that the final beneficiary of the operation had to be known. In this, you leave a door open to fraud. It's a real problem. You want concrete examples, Mr. Van Rompuy? The list of tax havens has been asked for more than a year by the Minister of Finance, who, like you, stands behind a decision at European level. It is obviously easy to wait for all European countries to agree! It's a pretext for not doing anything. The means of OECDFO, these police officers specialized in the fight against fraud, where are they? The way in which the text is written, which you have accepted, is to never again accept evidence that would not be provided for in all the standards, while the Antigone case law says that the quality of the evidence must be assessed in the light of the seriousness of the fraud, which is nevertheless essential. Today we are faced with interlocutors who are without faith or law. The Panama Papers and all the other leaks have shown this: we must adapt the means to this reality, to this fiscal aggression and to this growing tax incivism. Finally, with the Minister of Finance, you seem to be criticizing the journalists because you did not receive the Panama Papers data. I have asked the question and you are witness to it because I am asking many specific questions on this subject which are not ideological. They are extremely pragmatic. We learn that the German tax authorities have, for months, data from Panama Papers. What are the tax authorities and the government waiting to contact the German tax administration to obtain data on Belgian taxpayers? What are you waiting for? And then you want flowers thrown at you about how you fight tax fraud? But at last! Swipe in front of your door!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, knowing that no agreements could be reached at the Conference of Presidents on time limits, I should like to remind you that the way in which we are now in the process of prolonging the debate would be endlessly, and we have a number of other chapters to go along with this chapter. Many speakers have been included in this discussion, so I would like to encourage you to be as concise as possible. Mr Penris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u107	Mr President, I will not make use of the speaking time that I could get, but I feel as a politician and as a citizen increasingly uncomfortable in this debate. I remember the passionate words of the Attorney General of Brussels when he was to testify on your committee of inquiry. I'll just say it in Dutch: anyone who wants to practice must sweat. That was very ambitious of the man, but he immediately added that he wanted to deal with the practitioners, the fraudsters, but that he had neither the resources nor the competence to do so. What did your committee try to do? You have tried to provide the means to live up to the ambition of that Attorney General and of all the others who want to tackle the practitioners in our society. All of this is a credit to you, gentlemen and ladies Commissioners. Are these recommendations sufficient? No, probably not, but should we now take a procedural course on this, as the left-wing side is doing at the moment? I don't think so. We will abstain on your recommendations. We do not think they go far enough, but we also believe that you have made the effort to support the Attorney General in his ambitions, and so you can rest assured as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u108	Mr Penris, I would almost like to thank you for this wonderful comment, but I can only say that it is very difficult for a number of people to distinguish between a number of things. We are talking about fraud, about the ethical aspect of paying less taxes and about companies that some people believe should pay more ethically, while they do nothing wrong legally. All these things are getting messed up. What I wanted to say in my introduction was that we should not just do that and that we should not forget, in our drive to play Robin Hood, that there is an international context against which we, as a small player, have to arm ourselves, but in the right way. What differed from our opinion? Firstly, we are talking about dogmas in relation to no dogmas. I found it very interesting to see that the friendly settlement on the left is seen as an instrument for promoting class justice, while the friendly settlement in my view is just a way of ensuring that no class justice is created. With a large battery of lawyers, a large company or a wealthy industrial company can ensure that his file is spread over time as long as possible or continues to exceed the normal time limit, which means that that file will lapse. That is precisely what we want to avoid. For this reason, the una-by-procedure was also approved in 2009 following the Fiscal Fraud Committee. We no longer want such situations of impunity by means of proceedings. A controlled friendly settlement, as described in the potpourriwet of 2015, in which stakeholders can no longer simply register in a friendly settlement at any time, just makes us out of class justice. For us, therefore, the friendly settlement is an important issue to preserve. I also mention regularization in relation to controlled regularization. Over the past ten to fifteen years we have known regularizations, each with different modalities and with a different approach. We see that today we have a workable instrument on the table that is becoming more expensive year after year for those who are not in order. Anyone who does not meet the obligations will have to pay more, not only on the unpaid part of the taxes, but also on the capital. Over the years, therefore, there has been a clear distinction in the way tax fraud is dealt with. We have just discussed whether or not to close or accompany economic activity. For us, it is important that economic activities can be carried out. There are rules to this. When companies settle in a tax haven under a certain tax condition, they must also play an open card with our Belgian tax authorities. If they do so, then there will be no more fraud, but then economic activity will be properly exploited and properly regulated. One element that we quite easily ignore, but which I would like to mention nonetheless, is the shame culture. Honestly, I don't like that. Anyone who goes into this dossier, from legislation on executive power to journalists, I would like to call on you to think twice. I find the news gathering and spreading over the past few weeks just as reprehensible as the way in which some of the files have been put together. It's not about taunting and accusing people without proper investigation. That principle is still part of our rule of law, and if we do not want to uphold that principle, we will end up in a scandal structure where anyone will be able to say anything without the facts being refuted or punished. I'm gonna stand by that system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u109	Mr Van de Velde's attachment to the rule of law is almost touching. This may be the announcement of a new era by the N-VA. You do not have the restraint you advocate when it comes to tax fraud at all in other cases. Then you'll be there as the chickens to point fingers at people and point fingers at the guilty. You even like to take the place of the judiciary. Your reluctance might be credible, should you always apply this principle. However, your reservations become hypocritical when it comes to tax matters. The fact that we are discussing these recommendations here today, on which we disagree, shows that these journalists have covered relevant dossiers. Without the Panama Papers, there would have been no committee of inquiry and there would not have been any recommendations put forward here. I therefore believe that these people are doing their job and perhaps contribute even more to the debate on fiscal justice than this parliamentary majority. At the end of this work I would like to pay tribute to them and I would encourage them to continue to do so in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u110	I would encourage them to keep doing this, but I find the scandal structure and culture around names objectionable. I'm gonna keep finding that. Work at Nike's! A very pleasant affair, I think. What's important to us? We must continue to fight this constant fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u111	Mr President, Nike's employees have done nothing wrong in this regard. It is very annoying for them to be part of a company that apparently likes to pay its taxes elsewhere or above all does not want to pay them. You note, however, that people should work at Nike's. The N-VA who comes here to be a softie, I throw myself at the union to work or to be a berber or a Muslim. Those are all matters in which your party stands in the front row to hurt people and point the finger at them. However, when it comes to tax fraudsters, we must put on the velvet gloves and, above all, we must not mention the problems by name. Mr van de Velde, you are a little hypocritical in that regard. You're not a little hypocrite, but you're even very hypocrite.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u112	Mr President, it is important for us that we continue to fight the ongoing fight in the field of tax fraud. Other Members have referred, for example, to banking secrecy, which we are putting on the table here and which, for example, the Minister has negotiated with Switzerland. That goes far beyond what has ever been discussed here in the Chamber. In this respect, we have no lessons to learn in dealing with tax fraud. In fact, the opposite is true. We must work on a valve approach. Let me explain to you what I mean by that. When in the beginning such a pot overboils, comes from the valve incredibly much steam and power. That is what we have been through with the communication on the Panama Papers. Afterwards, we did our job and the administration did her job. We now notice that there is not much left of that very large valve at first. 10 million euros have been collected, which is about six times the amount collected from the Panama Papers in the Netherlands. In that respect, we have done our job fantastic. At the same time, this brings the problem back to its essence. The essence is mainly about workable structures. I'm speaking for my party now. What the N-VA considered important in this respect after all the hearings and after what we saw from the various testimonies, is that, firstly, we should work on a unitary parquet with specialties. The fact remains that combined files are being picked up far too difficult. The specialties exchange far too little thoughts with each other. The files are moving too slowly from one specialty to another. A unitary parquet could help ensure that a complete parquet structure could better address combined and often very complex dossiers. We have also advocated this also in the package of parallel procedures in economic, social, labour law and tax matters. Today a visitation in one file is a completely different procedure from that in another file. This leads to procedural errors, leading to a lack of transparency. This new measure would facilitate the implementation of the procedures. Finally, I have two comments to make. Firstly, a number of colleagues have asked for more resources and more people for administration. Well, we do not believe in the trick that such problems are suddenly solved by more employees. We do believe in computerization. Too often today we try to catch a Ferrari with a goat. I can't. It's too fast. It's too spicy. We need computerization so that we can build files and look at databases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u113	Mr van de Velde, it is, of course, right that structures and digitisation are very important. However, when it comes to tax control and strengthening it, it is well known that the efforts of more employees are often recouped. So I don't understand what you're saying here. You say everyone's asking for help, but that's right. In the meantime, the Minister himself is ready. He recognised in his latest policy paper that savings in FTEs at the FPS Finance and the fraud services have reached their limits. So when it comes to tax administration, it is right that it is important and necessary to invest in more people, in addition to a number of other things, which you also mention. I honestly do not understand that you deny that track, because it is a very important track. It is also a sign that my colleague, Mr Gilkinet, will defend with great fire during his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u114	Mr Calvo, have you read recommendations 96 and 97? What's in it? There is a need for more specialists in economic and financial delinquency. Additional staff will be deployed, with the special situation in Brussels. In No. 97 states that, on the basis of the analysis, the number of magistrates specialised in tax matters and financial crime, both parole magistrates and investigators and magistrates of the seat, and the number of police investigators will be adjusted. I can also read out recommendations Nos 98 and 99. It bothers me that there is a debate here on the basis of recommendations that have not been read. What you're actually saying is literally in there; there's just no figures. We have also debated this in committee. We have asked whether 700 employees were sufficient for the BBI, or whether it should be 800. It's not our place to decide. At the beginning of the legislature, the number of parquet magistrates also doubled. The number of FPS Finance tax officials has doubled from 15 to 30. The number of tax substitutes has doubled. That is what happened in this legislature, not in the previous legislature, when the Socialists were in charge. Who was the great Secretary of State on tax fraud again? Who was that? I forgot the name, because he wiped himself out of that position and doesn't remember what happened before. I think it was a John Crombez. Anyway, all that's in here. There is criticism policy, but I refer to the report. I read a number of recommendations in this regard. But of course it is the perception that counts, and one wants to give the impression to the public that the majority is playing the game of the great fraudsters, for example, Nike. That's natural until Nike closes the doors. Then you are the first to stand at the gate and say that international capitalism destroys employment. I've been following those files for years, and that kind of thing gets on my nerves. Ecolo-Groen thinks it is possible to get public opinion involved in this matter alone. Mr Calvo, 80% of your speeches in Parliament are about fraud, and I never hear about other points, for example about restoring competitiveness or promoting employment. It's all about fraud, Mr Calvo. Now, when it comes to this, the majority has now produced a report containing 130 concrete recommendations. The debate is going on for two hours and I have still not heard a good argument as to why the report is not concrete enough. You claim that the majority is not doing enough in the fight against tax fraud. You can quote my blog on a number of points. A number of things haven't worked out what we wanted, like the caiman tax. I'll stick with that. However, I hope that the improvements suggested in the report, which are also contained in the programme law presented yesterday, will be more effective. Anyway, we need to see that in the future. But tell them I'm doing double talk here... you're doing double talk. You are defending employment and you are taking measures to destroy employment. That's Green.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u115	Mr President, I should like to ask my friend Van Rompuy, who I have just given an honorary membership as the best N-VA blogger in the hemisphere, not to go so far. In any case, thank you for your statement, Mr Van Rompuy. What I meant by the magical magic formula of more employees: you have put down that question for every service that was possible. We have channeled them to wherever that will contribute effectively. Finally, we have only one great wish, and I have heard that all the parties of the majority who wish to share it is that we begin as soon as possible with the transposition of the recommendations into legislative work, into organisational interventions. That's what we have to do. We will make the profit in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u116	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today I return my apron, I will be able to tell you what I think of the conclusions we have reached and which mark our differences. But first of all, I would like to warmly thank all the colleagues who have participated in the work. There have been hours of study work, we have to remind him. Real work has been done. For the rest, we are Democrats, most of us. We have differences, but that is also democratic life. The essential thing is that we have, most of the time, been able to work in a respectful climate. Of course, we have not been able to avoid some exchanges which are sometimes more vehement, but overall I would like to welcome the content of the work, its quality and the state of mind, although, at the end of the day, we had to find that we could not agree. I also, of course, want to thank all the people who have come to give us their testimony, their story, their information. We have seen a large number of particularly interesting, valuable interlocutors appear before the committee because they have different observatories – police, administration, anti-money laundering, sometimes even colleagues in the European Parliament. Then, remember, we managed to bring two Panamanian vice-ministers to the committee, even though the minister stole a little from us because, well informed, he had organized a small press conference just before. But there is no difficulty in considering that it was up to everyone to bring their stone to the building. We also heard from bankers, consulting companies, a number of representatives of professional organizations, etc. In short, all of this has allowed us to have a relatively comprehensive view of the problem. I thank Professor Marc Delanote and Professor Marc Bourgeois, who have accompanied us throughout our work with their expertise, and they are with us this evening in the gallery. I would like to commend their work first and foremost because the report they have provided suggests that they have done an analysis of the exhibits to be stripped of, the transcripts, the colossal and titanic work that they have done within particularly impressive and rapid deadlines. Secondly, I welcome the professional quality of their work, their assessments and their judgments. Remember all the additional notes that we asked them and they wrote in often fast time! Gentlemen, thank you and thank you for your patience. Because to see us chammailing in working groups keeps you away from the academic context in which you operate. In fact, we diverge from our political doctrines that lead to confrontations and value judgments as you evolve in a context that, on the contrary, leads you to focus more on facts and arguments. From this point of view, have you sometimes been surprised. That being said, I have always – I want to tell you this – raised in you the understanding of the political context and, in particular, the way in which you managed things by offering us options very often. In other words, when there were major difficulties, you offered us a number of options, some of which, moreover, are included in the report which is now before us. Unfortunately, other solutions could not be adopted because of political difficulties. I thank Mrs Fransen, who has provided particularly interesting notes from the point of view of criminal procedure. You'll give him our thanks. We have heard a number of university professors. I am thinking in particular of Mr Masset, who has also provided us with a number of very interesting information. I would also like to thank the secretaries of the committee, Mrs Stephanie Zouliamis and Mr Liêm Dang-Duy, who have provided a colossal work for which they deserve to be applauded. Thank you to the interpreters who sometimes helped solve some misunderstandings by proposing words that helped to find the path of compromise. Thanks to the translators, the bailiffs and the parliamentary staff of the various groups. At times, there has been the establishment of working groups, sometimes composed of parliamentarians and collaborators, sometimes only of collaborators who have done an ant work. Finally, it should be remembered that a committee is much more than the meeting of a group of parliamentarians. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not dwell on trying to convince you of the importance of the fight against tax fraud and, in particular, international tax fraud. We obviously have differing views and we will not reach a consensus today; it is an euphemism. However, I would like to remind you of the facts that have justified – and finally I put it again, my opposition cap – that the majority is drawn to the need to take the bull back by the horns, in this case the bull of the fight against tax fraud. I do not want to argue, but Mrs Sleurs' note had not received the support of the opposition; Mr Sleur's note had not received the support of the opposition. Van Overtveldt more. I refer to the work we have had. When Mr. Van Overtveldt took over the competence of Mrs Sleurs, he tabled a note containing proposals to which we could adhere. Unfortunately, these proposals are not reflected in the Panama Papers report, but I imagine you will have the opportunity to come back to them. With Mrs Sleurs, the assumptions that justified the fight against tax fraud were quite surprising. We find them in what Mr. Van de Velde. It's not a reproach. I respect everyone's ideas, but it seemed that if we had to fight tax fraud, it was essentially to avoid unfair competition between companies. We were somewhat surprised by that. However, we feel that with Mrs Sleurs, we have lost time. We say it, we say it, and we remind you of it. A second element seemed problematic. If the minister can explain this to us, we would be happy to do so. Under the previous government, a very simple organizational measure had been taken. It planned to set up a college, not institutionalized, but in informal operation. He did, however, carry out a formal work. It brought together around the table the services of the specialized tax administration, the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, customs, VAT, research services which are very important and of which we do not talk enough. This college also had to invite around the table anti-money laundering services, prosecutors' offices and, of course, specialized police services. It was a place where people did not process files, which would not have been in accordance with the law, but shared practices or information about the major tax fraud patterns they observed. In the opinion of all those we have heard, this college made it possible to increase the effectiveness of the fight against fraud. It is a pity that this experiment was not continued. As you know, it is one of my marottes, I have greatly regretted the evolution of the regime of secret commissions. We had a system – the famous 309% contributions – to deter those who were tempted to evacuate money to unidentified beneficiaries. The reform that you have put in place does not seem to me to be in the direction of deterring certain patterns of tax evasion. You have heard me at length about OECDFO. I confirm here that the dismemberment of OECDFO and the decentralization of its forces is a mistake. There must be a centralized, efficient service capable of combating the major flows of financial crime. This is not your responsibility, Minister, but it is the responsibility of your colleagues in the interior and in the justice system. A strike force should be available to mobilize quickly when a large current of fraud is identified. This service would include tax, legal and financial expertise. It would allow, at the confluence of the police and prosecution services, to seize immediately the flow of tax fraud and to bounce back, in order to carry out the necessary investigations in the context of the ad hoc judicial proceedings. The other point that has separated us a lot is obviously our assessment of the Cayman tax. I am not going to expand, because we will still have an opportunity to discuss it again during the budget work. But we have lost this opportunity, through our work, to go to the end of the reasoning. It is true that the drafting of the Cayman tax, in principle, is something very sensible. However, since it had to be modified several times, it did not immediately understand, in its terms, the spaces in which some could be inserted and which allowed them to escape certain constructions. You have filed texts to strengthen the device. Unfortunately, we consider that a great deal of time has been lost and that there may still be bliss. Here too, we will have an opportunity to return. As for the return of this tax – because basically you make it an important part of your argument – we will never know how much it pays, because you did not allow us to validate this recommendation to have a separate code. That's too bad. The Court of Auditors itself explains to us that it fails to evaluate. I do not intend to monopolize the floor at length. Other colleagues still have to take it and explain their point of view. I will tell you why, in the end, I did not vote for the report. First of all, to say that there is strictly nothing in this report would be contrary to the truth. That would be contrary to the truth! I could take a lot of examples. In the field of whistleblowers, for example, the majority clearly take an initiative that is quite remarkable. It is certainly a little late in comparison with other countries, but finally it had to be done. Of course, we regret that there was no additional compensation mechanism. Nevertheless, there is a will that is marked and I recognize it. A range of other recommendations, including a number of developments at the international level, are integrated. Let us be careful, the directives must be transposed anyway! However, it is indisputable to say that you were able, too, to mark a will not to drag. We will see the results and if, indeed, you are implementing this. That is why, Minister, once we have finished our work, you will have to explain to us the timetable for the implementation of all these recommendations. Why didn't I vote in favour? In my opinion, there are several elements missing. Yes, Mr Van Biesen, Mr Philipsen did not say at the hearing: "I need a hundred more agents." He said it on March 17, 2015 during an interview in De Tijd. I can send you the link if you wish. He said, "I need a hundred more agents." He said it explicitly. If he didn't say it in committee, he said it. From this point of view – this also applies to the judiciary and to specialized police services – there is a significant difference between you and us. We wanted to be particularly concrete in terms of the increase in staff, because we are convinced that because of a whole series of parameters, some services are overstretched. The fact is that, following the revelations of all these repeated scandals – I have counted six for three years – the number of cases opened, for example, at the Special Inspectorate of Taxes has sometimes doubled. The ISI was good year, bad year, a thousand files. Today, it's almost double the amount. On the Panama Papers alone, the ISI opened 200 additional files. We have to deal with these files! We have heard from the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and the magistrates themselves. They have told us that sometimes they have to make arbitrations in favour of financial matters. It's a real problem. This is a major divergence between us. We wanted to be more concrete in the allocation of new resources to all State departments involved in the fight against tax fraud, whether they are under the jurisdiction of the judiciary or the executive. The second point, of course, is OECDFO. This is not the first time I've talked about it in this gallery. In a discussion on a budget or a programme law – I refer to the reports of more than two years ago – I asked the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior. I'm going to be very concrete. I told them: "Don't listen to the federal police hierarchy! It is from her that this idea of dismembering OECDFO comes. It's a mistake! There was an expertise that will disappear and it will cost us a lot of money. In particular, on VAT carousels, but not only." It's not too late. Mr Minister – we could tell the Minister of Budget too – it could make your business better if you had a service that would allow you to bring money into the state coffers, not on the backs of all the workers, but on the backs of the fraudsters, and in particular the big fraudsters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u117	Mr President, I would like to recall – this may be the last time – that the ISI has increased its framework with the recruitment of about 100 agents. It is always disputed by each other, but it is a reality that has been highlighted by the minister following a question put by Mr Laaouej. As far as OECDFO is concerned, this becomes almost caricatural. We really feel that the whole fight against financial crime goes through OECDFO. The OECDFO was 32 officials. You have to say it anyway. Half were police officers, the other half were tax officers. Following a decision taken on the basis of the 2014 law, OECDFO was not dismantled. There's been a reshuffle of services. The Prime Minister said that it was not a question of reducing capacity, but a desire to prosecute all frauds with a different distribution within judicial districts. The competence of the persons concerned has not become volatile with their relocation. An attempt has been made, on the basis of a decision taken by the previous government, to set up investigation teams called MOTEM, which should be closer to the various frauds we find in the territory. Therefore, without wishing to make a trial of intent – certainly not with regard to the chairman of our committee – I believe that it is a systematic bad faith to always "shoot" the commitment that would not have taken place at the level of the ISI and to take as an example the OECDFO as if it characterized the entire administration. Of course, there have been reductions in staff, which is normal. There have been reductions in the number of staff because, today, the resources are no longer at all the same as those available, some 10 or 15 years ago. This is the evolution of technology in particular. It goes without saying that when managing a ministry such as Finance, a reform aimed at public servants can take place taking into account new technologies, which may result in some public servants being transferred to more efficient services. Control has not been or has not been particularly affected by this reform. Of course, all public servants must be taken into consideration. This is about thousands of civil servants who today have more efficiency through new technologies. I am thinking in particular of Tax-on-web, which today represents five million personal tax returns that are processed directly by computer. You also know that there are two million simplified declarations that require almost no retouching, which frees thousands of hours by different officials who can be assigned to control tasks. And precisely, in terms of control tasks, especially in the last two years, there has been a significant increase in the number of cases processed and recovery at the ISI level. If we look objectively at the figures officially presented by the FPS Finances, we need a much more nuanced statement from each other, who are becoming quite caricatural and who are trying to insidiously demonstrate that today one of the State's services would be dismembered, namely that of finance, and more particularly that which should fight against tax fraud. That's not the case! It is therefore appropriate to recall from time to time the figures that are edited. These figures are also regularly recalled by the Minister of Finance in parliamentary matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u118	I would like to ask Mr Scourneau about the number of MOTEMs that have been set up. For my part, I asked the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior about the matter. It's an extraordinary scam: we've replaced something that worked with something that doesn't exist. From the moment we say that we have replaced OECDFO with decentralized services, and that they do not exist, we have replaced something that does nothing. Mathematically, there is a loss of efficiency in the fight against fraud. Secondly, you have an extraordinary blur between the administrative functions of the FPS Finances, which, let's be honest, are not the same as ten or twenty years ago – computerization is something real – and control functions. All the figures show that the control functions decrease sharply. You're using a budget argument to justify it, but it's a very bad calculation. It's the very type of savings that cost money. By reducing control capacity, you have an impact on tax revenues. In other words, a tax controller reports in terms of tax revenues and contributions much more than it costs. It's obvious! On the other hand, there is a general effect on the economy of the incorrect collection of taxes, particularly in relation to the perception of tax justice and the more general functioning of the economy, since the State, the Regions and the municipalities are important economic actors. If they are deprived of resources, this creates consequences for the other economic actors with whom they are in contact and in commercial relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u119	Mr President, I will reply to Mr Gilkinet. I said earlier "especially in the last two years" at the level of the ISI. I've got the numbers right here. 1,599 files were processed by the ISI in 2014. In 2016, there were 2,492 cases. So we've got almost 1,000 more files. There is also a higher recovery since we were 395,000 euros of recovery in 2015. In 2016, the recovery is valued at more or less €630,000. These are amounts per file. So we almost doubled the case-by-case recovery. With regard to MOTEM, none of the 32 officers who were at OECDFO were dismissed. They were all moved to judicial districts. As a result, we have not diminished and have not lost this know-how, we have simply relocated it. One can imagine that these people have retained all their skills and, cross-cuttingly, one can imagine that they have eventually been able to extend their skills to different agents around them today. The numbers are being challenged and very often – Mr Gilkinet did not say it, but I am sure he thinks so – in order to minimize the impact of new recruitments, it is said that it is not new recruitments but people who have been transferred from one department to another. In an answer to a parliamentary question put by our esteemed colleague, Mr Laaouej, the minister stated that 97 new recruitments were involved. As a result, one can imagine that there was no transfer between different agents. In the response, the ventilation was also quite symptomatic of this increase. The Minister divides the allocation by borough of persons who have been paid in the five directions of the ISI. This has therefore been made clear and it is not always necessary to flout this response, which has nevertheless had the effect of saying that the framework at the ISI has increased by about 100 units.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u120	I don't know if Mr. Scourneau is really convinced of what he says himself, but this way of getting us to take bladders for lanterns is a bit hopeless. Finally, the point you make - purely ideological - is that we can do better with less. This is a bit of the basis of your thinking about human resources management in critical functions. The problem is that it is an approach that quickly reaches its limits. The Minister of Finance himself acknowledged that we had reached the bone. In his policy note, he states that a total of 4,000 jobs have been lost in the Finance FPS. He said, "We can't go any further and now we're going to have to replace the departures." This is what he describes as a strengthening of the FPS Finance services. The status quo after a reduction of 4,000 units is presented to us as a reinforcement. You're a little in the same way. You describe the dissemination of OECDFO's resources as a form of action on cross-cutting issues, as if nothing had been lost. Of course we've lost. We lost the critical force of OECDFO. We lost the expertise that was shared. We've lost the ability to act. Can you reasonably believe that by placing these agents in the boroughs, they kept the same capacity for action as when they were working together on the same premises and on the same files? Of course not! For the ISI, I'm sorry, but this figure of one hundred recruits that has been sold to us since the beginning of the legislature, it's starting to do well! It was the Minister of Finance himself, in an answer to a parliamentary question, who made the parallel between the hundred recruits and natural departures. Natural departures were larger, more than a hundred, so the balance is negative. I'm sorry, Mr. Van Biesen, but let's go back to the ISI boss's request. What he's asking us is 722 collaborators. It's not the sea to drink! It cannot be said that he detonates the meters or that he asks for a doubling of his staff. It calls for ad hoc reinforcement. Can't you get out of your blind and mechanical budgetary approach to think that on some critical functions, you actually need additional resources? At OECDFO, at ISI, at the financial prosecutor's office, we need resources. Accept it and get out of your logic a little sterile and blind!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u121	Mr Dispa, can you accept that the evolution of society, technological change can sometimes lead to staff transfers? That's the meaning of history. You will understand because in Gembloux there are still farmers: before, to plant potatoes, it took fifteen people; since the invention of the tractor, only one person is enough. This is the technological evolution, Mr Dispa, on all stages of technology. There is now data mining and the possibility of processing seven million tax returns electronically; the ministry has objectively evolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u122	Can we go back to the fight against tax fraud and tax havens? The agrarian metaphors, objectively, do not bring anything! In conclusion, I wanted to say that on a factual level, Messrs. Gilkinet and Dispa are right. In your reasoning about the ISI, you did not take natural departures into account; what was also pointed out by Mr Philipsen, ISI boss, in his interview on March 17, 2017. As far as OECDFO is concerned, we are not against the enlargement of judicial districts, but for the maintenance of a national and integrated strike force. These are two different things, Mr. Scourneau. If Mr. Dispa allows, I'm going to follow up on the Antigone case law. We did indeed wish to take up the exact wording of the Court of Cassation in a legal framework, in accordance with what was contained in the general policy note of the Minister. We also asked that the actual tax level be included in the definition of tax havens. That seemed to us to be common sense. Even on this, we have not been able to rally you. This is all the more dramatic because the experts explained to us that the tax level criterion was an evolution observed in the debates at European and international level. There is another point of disagreement. I carried with great force the idea of having the financial regulator play a role - one of the most important recommendations, in my view, of the experts' initial report. It was not about turning it into a tax administration - it was never discussed. But, in the spirit of the circular on special mechanisms, the idea was to have the regulator play a role from the moment he is in the bank and where his job is to be close to the control of the banks - macro-prudential but also micro-prudential - i.e. the ability to detect elements that might be of interest to the tax administration as a result of tax fraud - we were not even talking about optimisation. Why were we proposing that? Because this already existed in the form of a circular - not effective because there are almost no cases of application. We wanted to enshrine this principle in the law. For the rest, we have brought a reflection that has not been heard. Your counter-argument was that nothing had yet been found. Indeed! But in ten years, banks can adopt other behaviors, which we have observed with the subprime crisis. Our reflection was on the idea that if a bank starts chipping and taking risks in borderline mounts that it considers to be in conformity with the law and whose legality the tax administration might challenge, it may be in danger in relation to its solvency. For if the tax comes with a bill so important that it endangers the bank's solvency, it also endangers the savings of Belgians and investors. This means that it is part of the tasks of the National Bank, in particular due to the compliance with the Basel III rules, to consider that a bank cannot afford to do anything in the field of taxation. Unfortunately, we were not followed. We discussed this a lot and expected to evolve on the FATF standard recommendations in the area of anti-money laundering. But you didn't want to follow the opposition when it asked you to review the ambitions upwards. You have simply aligned yourself with the current FATF standards. I'm not going back to the criminal transaction. We consider that there are lessons to be learned in a number of legislations and, in particular, a message would have been useful. In this respect, we have had a divergence: you consider that it is a management instrument that must prevail in any field. We believe that serious tax fraud should be removed from the possibility of criminal transactions. Another point is the alignment of the legislation on the lifting of bank secrecy, which currently prevails in income tax. We wanted to align it with what is prevailing in terms of VAT and inheritance duties. After all, they are also taxes! Why is there a different banking secrecy regime depending on whether you're talking about inheritance or income taxes? You didn't follow us either. I also stressed another point, namely the transfer pricing problem. To be of good value, they are found more in Paradise Papers than in Panama Papers. However, they were already found in the LuxLeaks. We asked you for a very simple thing. The "Transfer Price Cellule", which we auditioned, receives international information and must then process it. For this purpose, it has a period of two years from the time it receives the information. We consider it far too short. In complex cases involving a certain type of expertise, this period had to be extended to five years. This period does not come from anywhere, but is retained in other tax circumstances and in other tax legal frameworks. I do not go back to the Cayman tax, except to say that we, the opposition, were lending our help to boost its performance and allow you to achieve the goal of half a billion dollars. We proposed that tax advisors be required to notify the FCA of all legal constructions that fall under the Cayman tax. In other words, we would have doubled the burden on the taxpayers concerned of an obligation on tax advisers. There too, unfortunately, you did not wish to join. I come to the separate codes in the statement, which is also a point of disagreement, as I have already said. This is not in the report. It is true that very often tax thresholds are adopted. This is true in the case of the exempted quota scale, and in many other areas. The executive that passes a draft bill discusses it in Parliament and proposes a threshold for such a tax advantage. The discussion often focuses on the reasons for this choice, as in the case of the €6,000 for the new tax status of the so-called collaborative economy. Why this amount and not another? We have this kind of constant discussion in the Finance Committee. Often, firms working on these topics provide statistical elements and explain that with such a threshold, such a category of the population is targeted. This can be a social, socio-economic index or parameters that can be the subject of an opportune debate. Finally, does this amount really cover the audience that we want to target? A threshold can be justified, even if it always looks like arbitrariness. But here, in this case, as the Panama Papers Committee, we rely on this rule of the obligation to declare legal constructions – Mr. Van Rompuy mentioned Mr. Crombez. I'm being simple because we should be nuanced about that. With the obligation to report transactions to tax havens and, here too, I am simplifying the point. The €100,000 bar has been set. Why 100 000 euros? Are we for or against tax havens? If we are against tax havens, and we consider that, in general, they cause us heavy damage to public finances and that they pose a moral problem – you will tell me that the morals of some are not the morals of others, of course – why 100 000 euros? Why not 50,000 or 10,000 euros? From the moment you are 99,999 euros, you no longer fall under the law. From the moment you make a sequence of 50,000 euros in December and 50,000 euros in January, you no longer fall under the law. We therefore brought a rational argument that basically all transactions to or through tax havens must be reported. We weren't asking for more. There, too, we were not followed. As far as the 10-year limitation period is concerned, I do not have time to develop because it is complex. We wanted to extend it whenever tax fraud is international in all circumstances, but you have made it conditional on the existence of a legal construction. The provision of sanctions against commercial companies that have not taken internal measures to punish their employees who facilitate fraud is also a recommendation we have made. You decided to reject her. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I made a choice among what I thought was important. Other things, of course, deserve our attention. In addition to the statistics and figures which consist of saying that the majority report contains about 80 per cent of the recommendations, in fact the problem is not quantitative. The problem is qualitative and it is in this respect that we have not followed you. First, we considered that, on a whole series of recommendations, you were in the process of blurring or mitigating the scope of the initial recommendations. On the other hand, quantitatively, there were fundamental recommendations that are no longer reflected in your final report. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I can tell you that we will continue to vote against the majority report which closed the work of the Panama Papers Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech, allow me to pay tribute to the previous speaker, as chairman of the special committee and the committee of inquiry. I think it's a pity he ended up in a negative tone. If we can do better, if we can strengthen a measure or suggest new measures to the government or Parliament, then we should welcome these things. In this sense, Mr Laaouej, I already regret the delay in voting. Abstinence might then be appropriate because there is also a great deal of good in the more than 130 recommendations, which is not a bad thing. However, I appreciate your effectiveness over the past year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u124	Mr. Deseyn, please excuse me. My speech ended on a negative note, but started on a positive note. I want to be on the right side. I see the limits of our exercise, but I would also like to point out that many of us have invested heavily in the work of the committee, with our differences – but that is democracy. I have therefore concluded on a negative note, but it is still my right now that I am no longer President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u125	Of course, especially since you really did everything you could to reach a consensus. But what is not possible is impossible. Let us return to the facts, the big data breach that was revealed in 2016 and in which more than 730 Belgian hits were found. It was clear that Parliament had to speed up the fight against fraud. Mr Van de Velde has already said that we must do so with a sense of realism. I think we should, above all, do it with a sense of cooperation. I am talking about cooperation in this assembly, but also cooperation at European level and at world level. If we really want to be relevant and if we want to stop the fiscal competition, which certainly exists and for which we cannot be blind, then we will have to set further scenarios at international level. In Belgium, we will not only have to tighten up the rules, but we will also have to enforce and monitor them better. After all, that's always the drama. After data leaks, it turns out that there's always a lot of things not on the radar of our administration. It is therefore important that it is fully equipped to obtain all the information. This is the discussion of an important report of more than 100 pages of recommendations, which are addressed not only to the government, which is important to underline, but also to the National Bank and the FSMA, which are the supervisors in the financial sector, but also to the administration, to Justice, the FPS Finance, the police, the anti-money laundering cell and so on. It was a good thing that the committee has looked at the matter very widely from the outset. The fight against fraud is a horizontal dimension which must also be reflected in government policy. This is a matter for many departments, which requires multidisciplinaryness. It is from this concern and that sense of reality that we have also written many recommendations aimed at cooperation, strengthening capacity, exchanging information and expertise. In our speech in plenary, we would also like to make a few points about interpretation. There is sometimes rather quick screening with a slogan to indicate a particular position or a recommendation, but the truth is also many times more nuanced here. I illustrate this by the role of the supervisors, the National Bank and the FSMA. We saw in the hearing that the involvement of the Belgian banks was mainly indirect, with subsidiaries in Luxembourg and Switzerland. This makes it very difficult for supervisors to carry out adequate controls. We have had to establish that the Commission's frustration was that although the links between the head office and the branches are very close to the company, it was often said: we know nothing about it, it was a different management, it was for our period. In the cases that have been examined in the context of the supervisory authority with regard to the so-called special mechanisms, we must also consider. The reporting obligation is quite unique and has a history, because it is something that cannot be done anymore, given the control of the European Central Bank. The reporting obligation is unique but also subject to strict conditions, such as proof of double incriminating, which must prove that there has been fraud and the bank has facilitated this. It did not prevent our committee from making recommendations on the role of the supervisor. This is important when one sees alleged links between Belgian banks and setting up offshores in tax havens. They can now be reported immediately, so that it can be investigated. For example, we must not experience the frustration that the umbrella is being opened quickly and that it is being screened with another legal entity that has nothing to do with it. We need to do better, and that will only be possible if we invest more in tax expertise and if the regulator cooperates more efficiently with the tax administration. Chapter II, which deals with anti-money laundering regulations, includes the prohibition of cash payments. It has to be understood that it is not possible to raise cash over a certain threshold. It is also about reporting and the international role of Belgium as a pioneer in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. In our recommendations, we have placed great emphasis on the wider possibilities for electronic payment. I believe that it is very good that the Minister of Finance also wishes to distinguish himself at European level by stressing that we have expertise in the financial sector that responds to fintech development. It would be naive to think that we can do this alone and that we can introduce cash thresholds isolated from our European colleagues. I think we need to convince them to do better too. But occasionally we have to pioneer, as we have done in the past. We must dare to set thresholds and seek supporters for them. It is important that we should be able to adopt a uniform approach here too. In this second chapter we have also discussed for a long time the criterion of'serious tax fraud'. The reporting agents stated in the hearings that this concept needed to be clarified, although the Financial Information Processing Cell did not immediately need clarification. But I understand that the reporting agents, and especially the banks, want to have a hold because they can carry out the individual risk analysis more quickly. We have to understand each other. We must be able to ignore the commercial attitude towards anti-money laundering regulations. We have therefore not followed that statement. That is why there is a recommendation that it is only up to the CFI to determine whether there are suspicions of money laundering on which a particular crime is based. What is our reasoning? If we categorize too much a priori in the risk analysis, there is a risk that there will be a factual situation in which there will be no reporting. If we make too artificial a distinction between serious and very serious tax fraud and create an overly strict framework, we hypothesize precisely the obligation to provide information and risk that things are not reported or are not followed up. That is why we have taken a rather broad view of the individual risk analysis. It is also important that the committee makes it clear that there should be a register for the final beneficiaries, the so-called Ultimate Beneficial Owners Register or UBO register. This is an important database that lists the final beneficiaries of all constructions and should always be freely accessible to all competent authorities and citizens of legitimate interest. This database will help very much in the fight against tax fraud and money laundering. In this context, we also call for no longer to have relations with legal structures established in tax havens where there is no real economic activity. That may sound theoretical, but it is very specific about the handling of the mailbox companies to which people are rightly annoyed. With such a register, we can see what happens where. Other international regulations are also being prepared. If things are properly mapped out, we can see who are the ultimate natural persons who benefit from it. Sooner or later, every construction begins and ends with founders. If one digs long enough, then it will appear that every construction ends with people who ultimately benefit from it, in the broadest sense of the word. Such a register could greatly facilitate things. Chapter III brings us to the problem of whistle-blowers, a theme on which CD&V has been highlighted several times in recent years. It was also the starting point for our work. It's not an obvious case. Colleagues have just pointed out that it is not immediately possible to have a specific or a complete dossier when data leaks occur. We must also ask ourselves whether the evidence that led to this committee was lawfully obtained. If certain authorities or civil society, in the broad sense of the word, are in possession of certain data, do they have to pay for it as a government or do they have to claim it from other governments? One thing is certain: there must be a settlement for the whistleblowers. They are the focal point of the data leaks. We have seen that they constitute an additional capacity. The government must no longer have the naivety that it can track down all these things and have a broad picture. No, they don't have that image. One should be particularly grateful that there are people who, from a civil responsibility, are called "cybercrime jargon" that ethical hacking of white hat hackers... make a certain skill, expertise and information available to the government. We must develop a regulatory framework for this in a very mature and good way. Of course, this must always be done with respect for fundamental rights. That's obvious. There has been a great deal of time in drawing up good and balanced recommendations in Chapter IV on changes to tax legislation It has been rightly argued for a very clear and stable legislation for a long time. You should not interpret'stable' as if we were saying that nothing should change in the coming months, Minister. On the contrary, in addition to the simplification process, clear and stable legislation is very necessary because fewer things are allowed or fewer things can be interpreted. We absolutely need to evaluate, streamline and work towards the current legislation, in the direction of the recommendations that are before us today. One of these adjustments concerns the cayman tax. That caiman is one whose teeth grow month after month or quarter after quarter. Nor should we, as a majority, be too bad for us to recognise that it is also a bit of a learning process. It is always noted that new creative systems are being set up, that there are gaps in the system or that there are administrative barriers. However, we must not talk derogatoryly about the adjustments that will soon be adopted in Parliament, because they really mean something. Hopefully we will see that very strongly in the financial return in the coming years, and we will see that we cannot simply circumvent certain things with a screen company or with a trust. It is also important that the specific anti-abuse provisions, which were very critical, should be brought under the scope of the Cayman tax, for example, when it comes to the Luxembourg sicavs. It is the art of any legislation to remove holes or holes. We have tabled a legislative proposal on this subject and we are very pleased that the main lines of it are very clearly recognizable in the Government's programme law. The double structures will be dealt with, the trust benefits will also be charged, a specific anti-abuse clause will be reformed so that we can also tackle the sicavs and so on. The reporting obligation for financial intermediaries and legal advisers is also very important. My colleague will discuss this later. If, in the light of the Cayman tax, it is about the lateral reporting obligation, then these are all substantial reinforcements. Then there is a very important and very topical problem: what is a tax haven? For some Belgium is a tax haven, for others there are no tax havens anymore, others want a very long list. Depending on the parameters or criteria, other lists can of course be drawn up. That is why it is so important that we fill in the term tax haven and standardize it. Here too, the international regulations that are being prepared will certainly show us the way. That is also a question of international solidarity. If there is a collective agreement to treat transactions with tax havens in a certain way, then we do not need to be dragged into the fiscal competition I mentioned in my introduction. I believe that we should have a definition based both on non-cooperative and low-tax jurisdictions and on the European definition. That is also in the recommendations. This is also a very topical debate that has been held in the press over the last few days. Which model is chosen? Are we going to assume real percentages or are we going to check whether it was correctly indicated or what economic activity is? There's something like that magic threshold of 15%. It is good that the debate is now being conducted on what is an acceptable assessment for certain parts and certain pillars of taxation. This is also in line with the issue of double taxation treaties, which is a real pain. Where these are always conceived as avoiding double taxation, we see in practice that sometimes they lead directly to double non-taxation. That is why we absolutely must come to an evaluation. I think the minister is definitely a partner in that project. This is a political legacy. We have been very eager to conclude a lot of double taxation treaties, but we have been wrong in the order in which they are put. First of all, we have to go for TIEA's Tax Information Exchange Agreements, and if we have an insight into what is happening in the country, we can, as far as we are concerned, build a partnership with all third countries. Only when we know what is happening can we talk about correct tax treatment. It is also very important, as I have said to the chairman a few times, that the people who have committed themselves in the Panama Papers Committee or in a follow-up or a committee of inquiry can keep an eye on the concrete content of the texts of those double taxation treaties. We note, after all, that Parliament has almost no role to play throughout the negotiation process. There's absolutely no other way. In some countries a strong negotiating mandate is advocated, defended or submitted to Parliament. It will also offer the Minister some comfort when he goes to international fora or has contacts with third countries. When one looks at what is now circulating around Andorra, for example, one cannot say in principle that it cannot. I revisited the list in the Royal Decree of 2016. There can be very good reasons. The suspicion is justified, but when it comes to the position of employees and the mapping of real estate, Belgium may have an interest in concluding a treaty. The problem is that it is due to political distrust that it is not being briefed and debriefed and that it is still happening in the wrong committee. These are matters that do not belong in the External Relations Committee, but certainly in the Finance Committee. We hope to be able to step away from certain principles, a bit of foolish interpretations in the past, where one assumes that it is valued abroad and that it is therefore okay. In reality, this can also lead to a situation where it is valued at 1% or 0 %, if that is the normal rate in that country. Or one gives a 100 % discount on a rate of 15%, so there is no valuation in the third country, and we say that it has undergone its normal regime and is therefore not valued here either. That is a clear example of how these treaties lead directly to a tax erosion, to a real tax degradation. After all, twice there is no burden. That is an absolutely irresponsible fiscal policy, a perverse consequence of such past treaties. I will conclude by saying that Mr Smaers will shortly be responsible for a number of other chapters. Fifthly, I would like to say a few words about banking discretion and banking secrecy. With our recommendations, we advocate strong fiscal transparency. We have knocked on that nail several times, because we cannot continue to deny international evolution from Belgium. Some have been hiding behind a position for too long, where it seemed as if certain things had to be covered up, if there was a bigbrother culture or if there was an increased valuation. None of that is true, because we would completely isolate ourselves from the international scene if all of this were to be the case. The irony is that we are achieving greater fiscal transparency with US legislation first, followed by legislation of the G7 countries and of the OECD. It is then particularly strange to hear accusations that we would withhold information about the existence of accounts in the name of certain account holders, of which we are obliged to communicate with third countries, from our own administration. In Recommendation No. 43 We say quite clearly that it is appropriate to automatically exchange bank data at national level, where useful and necessary for the correct processing and control of the Belgian tax. That is only logical, because it already exists at international level. Intuitively, I already feel that the opposition might fall over the part of the sentence "where useful and necessary for the correct processing and control of the Belgian tax'. Mr Vanvelthoven, when I hear this criticism, I wonder if everyone in this assembly has forgotten what is to be understood under the term 'Belgian tax'. It concerns not only the declaration, but also the movable and immovable income which, for example, in certain cases is deducted by means of a free-of-charge levy. With this measure, the tax authorities will be able to effectively and effectively monitor their retention. It is, of course, a recommendation and the scope of recommendations can never be accurately assessed in advance. The option for us is that future legislation and royal decisions should provide all the means to ensure adequate control of the effective, good valuation, not only in the case of the levy, but also in the case of the final settlement. Moreover, taxation will become even more complex. Indeed, in the summer agreement, agreements were made on certain deductions and on compulsory active communication. It is only natural that such matters can be adequately monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u126	Mr Deseyn, I interrupt your speech for an interruption by Mr Vanvelthoven.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u127	Mr President, briefly the following. We advocate the automatic transmission by financial institutions of information on clients' accounts. That is what 90 countries have agreed to in the meantime. We call for this to be applied to our territory as well. You say that you are in favour of this, Mr Deseyn, but I do not understand why the recommendation should say 'as far'. This means that it will not happen automatically, but on demand. That's exactly the difference between us. Just do what's agreed internationally. A foreign financial institution is obliged to automatically transfer information on Belgian clients' financial accounts to the Belgian tax authority, not "as far as'. We would like to introduce the same automation for the Belgian banks. You're saying you don't want to do this and you're tying conditions to it. That is where we differ. Then do not come here and say that international agreements were included in the recommendations, because that is not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u128	I think we're very close. However, we need to understand each other. You're talking about "automatic," pur sang. If it says 'as useful and as necessary' in the recommendation, it is clear that this threshold is very low as far as we are concerned, in order to achieve proper and necessary controls. This measure will enable the tax authorities to monitor the correct deduction efficiently and effectively. I would even dare to say that one will have to check if this is necessary for proper processing. You are talking about an automatic exchange, but you need to look at what is being exchanged internationally, including identity, bank account numbers and so on. However, this is only a first step with a check. On the basis of this information, one only has an indication of the front door and one still has to check what has happened in the house. Mr Vanvelthoven, what is the big difference between the recommendations and the current practice, apart from the international exchange? An indication of fraud had to be proven in the past. These recommendations can go far beyond identity. All the information relating to the accounts can be obtained if it is considered useful and necessary in the context of certain valuation checks. I think it is about taking a position on what is textually ahead of the banks. I believe, however, that we do not differ so much in many areas from the vision of the concrete implication and practical elaboration of this recommendation. It is true that, of course, this is not a free pass for all the information to appear here in the Grand Place in Brussels and for everyone simply to announce what he or she has transferred from account X to account Y. That's the other extreme. Of course, you do not want to go in that direction either. That is why we want to find good modalities in order to create transparency in a context of confidentiality. People who have the power to control should also be able to control. Compare it to road traffic and imagine not being able to do systematic checks, not only of whom drives what car, but also of whom drives at what speed. That is exactly what we intend to do with the recommendation in question. We are talking about low thresholds and more opportunities for tax authorities as well as more adequate controls. Perhaps you could also be in favour of this. Mr President, I would just like to touch on the element of succession, which is also a front-runner for Parliament. How will we deal with this? There are 130 recommendations. The recommendations are not only important, they must also be read together with what has already been achieved. It is also necessary to examine the outcome of a previous committee, which was dealing with the fight against tax fraud. After all, a number of points from this committee are still useful and may still require follow-up. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed how this report relates to the previous report. We have decided not to integrate it, because the mere repetition would undermine the previous report. We would allow both reports to exist side by side. Both can be put together in a board table. For us, the policy plans, not only the 2017 plans, but also the 2016 plan of the Minister of Finance, who has also been responsible for combating tax fraud since 2016. A table must also be drawn up for this purpose, as promised to Parliament in committee. We need to be able to see what the timetable is after action and commitment after commitment, when it is being implemented and what the state of preparations is. Colleagues, that is an important work for the coming months. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-16-54-plenair-ip196x.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the services, I must suspend the sitting for a little less than 15 minutes because the installation needs to be reset. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 16 November 2017 at 7.40 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, November 16, 2017 at 19.40 a.m.
