ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 16515 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 16217 has also been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 16563 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 16564, by Mrs Smaers and No 16564 Mr Laaouej's 17057 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman has converted 16728 into a written question. Too bad about the questions about the 2017 budget that disappears. I would have liked to know whether or not the objectives have been met.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u2	It's too soon. The Monitoring Committee doesn't meet until tomorrow night.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u3	We're not getting a scoop.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u4	Mr President, not a scoop, not even for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about the measure decided at the Council of Ministers on 20 January, which calls on the government to exercise budgetary prudence. You made this decision in order to quickly achieve the under-use targets set for 2017. It will not affect the interdepartmental provision for dealing with certain difficulties and the provision for terrorism. On the other hand, federal organizations would suffer from this measure. Public programming services (PPS) and federal public services (FPS), Defence, police will be blocked by €500 million. Federal public interest organizations (PIOs) and public social security institutions (PSSIs) will be subject to the Finance Inspectorate filter and yours. Could you give me the reasons why you made such a decision at the beginning of the year? By this measure, would you have anticipated the next budget conclave that will be more complicated than expected? What criteria will you use to determine whether an expenditure is justified at the level of IOPs and SSPs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u6	Mr Crusnière, as part of the preparation of the initial 2017 budget, the Council of Ministers did indeed decide to maintain the same under-utilisation target as in 2016, namely EUR 134 million for IPS, EUR 100 million for IPOs, and EUR 910 million for PPS, FPS, Defence and Federal Police. In accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers, the objective of underutilisation must, as in 2016, be achieved through blockages and a circular of budgetary prudence, which I signed on 20 January. We are very much in line with the approach taken last year, that is to say, a process of continuity. On the other hand, it is true that the circular comes earlier in the year, not with the aim of achieving the objective as quickly as you imagine, but rather with the aim, for the services, to review and plan their spending at best and thus to review their priorities. This is in no way an anticipation of the next budgetary control, which we are waiting for the Monitoring Committee's report in a few days' time. On the contrary, the circular provides for monthly expenditure monitoring for SSPs. It is therefore up to the College of IPSS to determine how to achieve the set under-use objectives. However, if, during the year, the Monitoring Committee detects a problem, the new initiatives will no longer be authorised. In the case of IOPs, the circular limits their expenditure to those considered to be incompressible; incompressible is defined as "expenditure which is indispensable for the continuity of public service and which cannot be carried over or reduced". Such measures of limitation shall in no case affect the functioning of such bodies. Finally, with regard to PPS, SPF, Defence and the Federal Police, some of the appropriations (500 million) were effectively blocked administratively. In addition to the interdepartmental provisions and terrorism - which you mention - the substantive funds and all the dossiers which will be approved by the Council of Ministers are exempt from blocking. The selection of the basic allocations on which the blockages are made was left to the departments which, moreover, have the possibility in the course of the year - in April, July and September - to re-ventilate. Departments are also subject to monthly monitoring.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u7	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her answers. What seemed surprising to us was the time chosen in relation to previous years, much earlier. We were questioned by the figures given for the adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u8	Mr Hellings is absent and has not asked for anything in his question No 16891, so it is considered withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u9	We shall resume our work. Minister, we came from Habay-la-Neuve to ask you questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u10	Mr President, Minister, there are not many of us in the province of Luxembourg today either. I tabled this question a few weeks ago. As the press reports a possible sale of the Abbatial Palace of Saint-Hubert, which currently houses the Archives de l'État, I would like to ask you again today about the expansion of the Archives de l'État in Arlon. The Archives de Saint-Hubert would in fact be closed to the benefit of the only centre of Arlon, which lacks space. This expansion of the Arlon State Archives was scheduled to begin in the spring of 2015. In a previous parliamentary question, I quote: "The auction is scheduled for August 2016. Work could start in the first half of 2017." Here we go. Minister, my questions are as follows. Did the bidding for the expansion of the Arlon State Archives Centre take place last August? If not, why and when is it planned? Can you inform me of the start date and duration of the work? In case of sale of the Abbatial Palace of Saint-Hubert, will this sale have to wait until the end of the work in Arlon? Otherwise, where will the Archives of Saint-Hubert be installed during the transitional period?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u11	Mrs Poncelet, the invitation to tender for the extension of the Arlon State Archives took place on 13 September last year. This case was committed at the end of 2016 for an amount of €7.8 million. Ideally, work is expected to begin in March 2017. Their duration is 350 working days for execution, plus 66 working days for the internal removal of the Arlon Archives, i.e. a total period of 417 working days, or between two and three years depending on the weather. The transfer of the Archives from Saint-Hubert to Arlon will only be possible at the end of work. The building will not be available for sale until after the full relocation of the service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for that clarification. I understand that the Saint-Hubert building is going to be sold, and that brings me to the next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u13	Minister, a few months ago, I asked you about the future of the State Archives in the province of Luxembourg. It was indeed envisaged by your colleague, Mrs Sleurs, to close the Archives de Saint-Hubert for the benefit of the centre of Arlon. A few weeks ago, the press informed us of the sale of the Abbatial Palace, which currently houses the Archives de l'État in Saint-Hubert. The amount of the transaction would be 1.9 million. Moreover, the acquisition committee would have gone down on two occasions to estimate the building. As far as the buildings in Saint-Hubert are concerned, however, you explained in response to a previous question that: "Infrastructures will have to be the subject of an analysis as to their future allocation or development. Pending the results of this analysis, the property will be maintained in its current condition at a minimum cost." Minister, do you confirm this information? I have more or less understood it through your previous answer. Is the Abbatial Palace on sale? If so, at what cost? Are concrete projects being developed? In the event of a sale, for what purpose could this vast building be intended? The press referred to the possibility of a project to transform into a luxury hotel. Are you aware of this? This building is listed as a Walloon Major Heritage Site. Is the Walloon Heritage Institute informed of these steps? Has the study you were talking about been carried out? If so, what were the conclusions? In the event of a sale of the building, can you tell me what will happen to the Provincial Cultural Dissemination and Animation Service (which we commonly call the SDAC), which is housed in this building? Finally, have any contacts been made with the current occupants, namely the commune of Saint-Hubert and the province of Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u14	Mrs Poncelet, as soon as the Archives de l'État leaves Saint-Hubert, as I said earlier, this property will no longer be useful to the federal state. It will therefore be put on sale. The buildings of the Abbatial Palace and the premises comprising the State Archives were estimated by the Federal Acquisition Committee at 1.9 million, those of the green classes at 1.1 million. To my knowledge, no concrete project is on the agenda. We have not received any information in this regard. For the moment, I do not think that the building is listed as a major Walloon heritage, since it is a first step towards a possible conversion of the site. Walloon Heritage has not yet been notified since no concrete projects have been identified to date. At present, only the municipal and provincial governments have been warned and have seized Idelux themselves, the intercommunal which aims at the economic development of the province. As far as the study is concerned, the site of the Abbatial Palace of Saint-Hubert comprises two more important complexes: the Abbatial Palace and its annexes housing the State Archives and, at the back, a building housing the green classes of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. This service is expected to move very soon to the Royal Athene building, which is being renovated. Given the common access of these two sites and the number of easements to be created, a common sale is preferable. The federal administrative situation of the city of Saint-Hubert is as follows: the move of the State Archives in about three years, the work of the extension of the Archives d'Arlon to begin in mid-March; the move of the last services of the FPS Finances in late 2017 or early 2018. Only one contribution service (Receipts and Control) remains in Saint-Hubert. This service will join the Finance Centre in Neufchâteau as soon as the renovation of the premises formerly occupied by the police court is completed. As for the services of the Régie des Bâtiments, the Saint-Hubert antenna will not be maintained as of April 1, 2017. The management of the building will be carried out from the Wallonia Directorate, South Region. As a result of these moves, the administrative centre of Saint-Hubert should also be abandoned and valued. The Régie des Bâtiments has no possibility of relocating any federal service in the buildings of the Abbatial Palace and has no alternative but to offer it for sale. The question concerning the future of the Provincial Service for Cultural Dissemination and Animation must be put to the governor of the province of Luxembourg. Concerning the contacts, the commune of Saint-Hubert, as well as the intercommunal Idelux, are fully aware of the intentions of the Régie with regard to the sale of the entire site of the Abbatial Palace, which takes over not only the building of the Abbatial Palace and the archives located along the courtyard of the Tilleuls, but also the buildings of the green classes located at the back of the basilica, as well as the former house of arrest for which the commune has already marked its interest. The prison can be sold separately. The other two buildings form an indivisible whole. I think I have answered all your questions, Mrs. Poncelet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u15	Minister, thank you. You have indeed approached all the buildings concerned in Saint-Hubert. I have already had the opportunity to tell you this: it is still regrettable that this part of the centre of Ardennes is deserted by the federal services, while mobility is problematic in our province. Having services nearby remained an asset for the centre of the Ardenne. But I thank you for the completeness of your answers. Maybe I'll have a chance to come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u16	Mr President, we have discussed the Haren prison file a lot. This is normal, since it is an extremely complicated and thorny issue, which raises questions relating to public management, transparency and "custodial vision". I would like to ask your colleague Mr Koen Geens about these questions of prison policy. Here, I am interested in the process and management of this invitation to tender by the Régie des Bâtiments. On 23 December, the situation changed, which leads me to ask you a new question today. The Brussels government approved the decree abolishing and modifying the vicinal paths passing on the grounds of the future Haren prison. As a result of this decision, the regional delegate was able to issue the town planning permit to the consortium Cafasso, designated for the construction of the Haren prison. At that time, however, the environmental permit was still not validated, but it was supposed to be issued fairly quickly. Above all, I wanted to ask you about the fact that you had always stated, as your colleague Mr Koen Geens did, that the contract with the Cafasso consortium would be signed when the town planning permit was issued. Minister, when will the contract between the Régie des Bâtiments and the Cafasso consortium be signed? Once signed, will you make it available to members of Parliament or the committee? We have asked you to do so many times. What is the status of the environmental permit? Are there still blocking factors? Will the permit be issued in the coming weeks? This is the last obstacle that remains before finalizing the contract that we have been demanding for a long time in order to know the amounts and commitments of the Régie des Bâtiments and the Federal State. All these points in the file remain obscure until today. I would remind you that the total cost of this project is estimated at over EUR 2 billion. Thank you in advance for your answers and clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u17	Mr Minister, together with other colleagues, we are trying to follow this issue step by step, not without difficulty, because we cannot yet say that transparency is absolutely necessary. I recall this incidentally, but mainly, we are still awaiting a number of documents which have not yet been transmitted to us, and which have not even been sent to the Court of Auditors either. I will again regularly ask the Court of Auditors whether it has the famous draft convention with the Cafasso consortium. As my colleague Mr Vanden Burre has just said, a step has been taken with the decision of the Brussels government to approve the decree abolishing and modifying a vicinal path, in particular, known as the Keelbeek. There may be a small similarity with the famous Eurostade dossier, where the removal of the trail has just been decided by the Grimbergen communal council, but this is another story. It is true that as a result, the delegated official of the Brussels Region has issued the town planning permit to the consortium Cafasso, which is designated for the construction of this complex. This decision seems to have taken place in good time, one week from the date on which the first compensation could have been claimed from the State by the consortium, in compliance with the penalty clauses contained in the annex to the specification, which, by the way, we still do not have. We still do not have the schedule to verify the terms and conditions for the award of compensation under the penalty clauses. When I read the permit issued by the delegated official, I note that only some of the conditions issued by the City of Brussels Concertation Commission, in its opinion in favour of the urban planning permit, have been met, but I know that there are already challenges to the issue of the urban planning permit, and that some residents are announcing the introduction of an appeal to the Council of State. Moreover, you do not, to my knowledge, have the environmental permit. When I say "you," I mean the consortium that acts on behalf of the state. The Environment College of the Brussels Region had refused this permit in December 2015, bringing an action for reform. In June 2015, the Concertation Commission of the City of Brussels had issued an opinion in favour of the issue of the environmental permit, but with many conditions, such as a green heritage management plan, a business mobility plan with shuttles, an access plan, measures to reduce the effects of the project, etc. Without this environmental permit, the planning permit issued by the Region is not legally executable. On 27 February, a community of local residents brought an action for annulment of the urban planning permit, based inter alia on the absence of a proposal for an alternative location, in compliance with a European directive incorporated into the Brussels Code of Regional Planning (CoBAT). There are still many legal obstacles on the way to the realization of this project, which is also highly contested. Minister, what would be the conditions for the environmental permit that was originally issued? Are the compensation payable by the State in the event of delay in the realization of the project from 1 January 2017 suspended by the granting of the building permit, even if it is not yet executable? Can you clarify this fact? What if the duration of appeals to the Council of State suspends any initiative by the consortium? You answered a question from my colleague Vanden Burre: "Despite the penalty clauses, there was no written and signed contract between the Régie des Bâtiments and the Cafasso consortium. This signature only occurs once the town planning permit has been issued." Today, is the Convention signed and can it be read in its entirety? If all the necessary permits are obtained and any appeals against them fail, will the resources allocated to the Brussels-Ixelles police zone be adapted accordingly? In the minority opinion of the City of Brussels, there is a point concerning the ability to accompany the management of this prison by the Brussels-Ixelles police zone. Moreover, a tripartite agreement between the State, the Region and the City of Brussels has been announced with a view to creating and implementing compensation for the urban and financial deficit caused by the construction of the prison in Haren. Is the draft convention still under consideration? If so, within what time frame will it be concluded?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u18	Mr. Chair, as communicated in previous responses, the contract will only be signed after all applicable permits, building permits and environmental permits have been received. As far as the latter is concerned, you must contact the competent authority, namely the government of the Brussels-Capital Region, whose competent minister is Mrs Céline Fremault. Currently, there are no environmental permits. I hope that it will be delivered quickly or, at the very least, that the Region will take a position. No compensation is being paid at this time. The payment of compensation is not related to the date cited but to the decision not to sign the contract. In this regard, I also refer to the comments and documents that have been forwarded to the Justice Committee of the House of Representatives. With regard to the minority opinion of the City of Brussels, the merits of this application will be examined at the time of obtaining the permits. The tripartite agreement is not a condition of obtaining the permit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u19	Mr Vanden Burre, are you satisfied with the answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u20	Mr President, to ask the question is to answer it! Minister, you've used us to longer answers on this issue. We continue to oppose this project, but today there is no new element. I take note of your response and the fact that the environmental permit is waiting. Surfing is not an option, even if we oppose the project, unlike you. We're asking for all the documents. I'm not going to list it again. We have problems with this lack of transparency. As long as we are in an outpost situation, we do not have access to contracts, documents, amounts for which the Régie des Bâtiments and the Federal State have committed themselves. I repeat, the outburst is a problem in this case, even if we strongly oppose the construction of this mega-prison in Haren. We're asking for documents, documents. We do not have it and we regret it. I will therefore have the pleasure of returning to you and to the Minister of Justice as soon as there is something new on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u21	Minister, I agree with Mr Vanden Burre. We're still in a hide-and-seek game. Contrary to what you say, we have not received in the Committee on Justice all the documents relating to the draft convention. I have also sent the Chairman of the Committee on Justice a detailed letter containing all the documents requested. To date, I have not had an answer. Mr Minister, I ask you a simple question, but you will probably not answer it immediately: are you finally going to submit to the Court of Auditors the whole file relating to this project? Every time we ask the Court of Auditors, it tells us that it does not have the relevant information. This is quite surprising in terms of parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u22	It is we who must put this to the Court of Auditors, not the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u23	The Government must be able to give any information to the Court of Auditors which enables it to exercise its control over public expenditure. If agreements are binding on the State in terms of budgetary commitments, the Court of Auditors must be able to take note of them, so that we can examine them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u24	Yes, but we have to charge the Court of Auditors with the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u25	If you want to support our request to the Court of Auditors to receive the documents as chairman of the committee, very willingly!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u26	I was just talking about formalities!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u27	Every time I write to the Court of Auditors, she replies that she does not have a file because she has not received the information from the government, which is still quite specific in terms of controlling public expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u28	Questions Nos 15746, 15941 and 16246 by Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois and No 16081 by Mr Gautier Calomne are postponed. Question No 16101 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu is transformed into a written question. Question No 16392 by Mr Gautier Calomne is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u29	Mr Minister, at the end of January, my Brussels parliamentary colleague Arnaud Pinxteren relaunched the proposal to open part of the Laeken Royal Estate to neighbouring districts. In order to strengthen his proposal, my colleague drew on the Regional Plan for Sustainable Development (PRDD), which recommends the creation of two green spaces in front of the Royal Estate, one in the Mabru area and the other in the Marie-Christine district. Why consider the creation of new green spaces, when there is already one which is huge and which would at least partially satisfy the demand? That is the question we are asking ourselves. Indeed, the canal area is densely populated and has too few parks. The partial opening of the Laeken estate to the public and the city would therefore represent a unique opportunity to offer this area an additional breathing and leisure space, while participating in the urban development along the canal. In concrete terms, our proposal is to cut down the walls along the canal between the Van Praet Bridge and the Church of Our Lady of Laeken, in order to open the south-west part of the site to the public. The ponds would serve as a natural barrier to this new park, the area of which would correspond to a third of the current Royal Estate. There are already unused entrances, one of which is located near the church. Finally, the southwest part includes several buildings that can be used for recreational purposes. As far as the royal family is concerned, there is no question of shaking their habits or violating the rules regarding their safety and privacy. This opening to the Brussels people could take place gradually. As you know, Minister, Laeken's Royal Estate is now 51% owned by the Royal Endowment - which is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, but which is in fact autonomous - and 49% owned by the Régie des Bâtiments, of which you are in charge. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. First of all, in principle, are you in favour of the partial opening of the Laeken Royal Estate to citizens? Have you ever had discussions with the Régie des Bâtiments and the Royal Commission on this subject? If so, what conclusions or action plans have emerged? If the discussions proceed, how will you proceed and how will you proceed? Do you already have any idea the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u30	Mr Vanden Burre, the Legal Service of the Régie des Bâtiments is currently examining the possibilities that exist. Following an evaluation of this study, we will be able to consult with the Royal Donation on the possibilities presented in this study. The Royal Donation will always have to agree on the actions related to its properties and we must always – I believe you share this idea – guarantee the security of the King and his family. Since the Royal Endowment is a majority shareholder and works independently taking into account the King's opinion, it will be difficult to resolve the legal imbroglio. I expect, in all cases, first to study the Régie des Bâtiments before making further comments or promises. To this end, I do not yet have a precise timetable. Study first!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u31	Minister, I take note of the fact that the Régie des Bâtiments is analysing the matter legally. This means that the idea is progressing. That's it already. I wish I had your opinion on the principle, whether you agree or disagree. I am asking you the question because a motion for a resolution by the Ecolo-Groen Group is ready and will be tabled in the next few days, precisely to ask the government to activate the discussions and the project to open the park. I would have liked to have your opinion in principle simply on opening up more or less a third of the park to the citizens because, somewhere behind it, there is also a question of political will. It is certain that without political will, we will not be able to do so. I therefore take note, but I would have liked to have your opinion, because in the coming months we will be discussing it on a resolution which the Ecolo-Groen Group will table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u32	Mr President, Minister, there is a threat to a building where justice of peace works in Saint-Josse. There's a public health issue. This building also poses a danger to the health and well-being of all those who have to go: justiciables and workers. Last July, I drew your attention to the provision of new premises for the justice of peace in the canton of Saint-Josse and the timetable for its relocation. You then replied: "(...) At the end of 2015, at the beginning of 2016, a new exploration of the rental market was started. This exploration of the rental market generated a shortlist of three buildings. Negotiations with the owners are still under way, so no future address can be communicated." However, you said: "One of the buildings enjoys preference and it is hoped that negotiations will be concluded soon. As soon as the negotiations lead to a draft lease agreement, this new lease will still have to be subject to the approval of the Council of Ministers." For information, the Régie des Bâtiments, of which you have the guardianship, in a letter dated 29 November 2016 indicated its wish to plan the move of the justice of peace for the beginning of June 2017 in the building located at 27 avenue de l'Astronomie. I would also like to remind you of the wish of the municipality of Saint-Josse, the owner of the premises, to allow the justice of peace to work in safe and suitable premises. This is why efforts have been made to relocate some offices, despite the costs involved. Finally, I would point out that the municipality does not receive any rent or compensation in this respect, unlike other municipalities. This is the configuration we find ourselves in. Minister, can you confirm to me that this building on 27 Avenue de l'Astronomy has been agreed, if not advanced? What is the status of negotiations with the owner of the new accommodation? Has a lease been signed? If so, what is the timing for the move? If not, how long do you intend to do it? What budgets would be made available? I would like to add that two weeks ago I asked the Minister of Justice, Mr Geens, who explained to me that a committee of the various departments met monthly to follow up on the case. But he had no information to share with me, which I regretted, which is why I am speaking to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u33	Mr President, dear colleague, the letter from the Régie des Bâtiments, more specifically, from the Brussels Immo operational service, dated 29 November 2016, did indeed inform the other bodies of the municipal house of Saint-Josse-ten-Noode of the Régie's wish to plan the move of the justice of peace for the month of June 2017. At this stage, it appears that this dossier is not fully completed and that it will have to be presented to the Council of Ministers, which will approve, if necessary, independently. In view of the current circumstances, the move should instead be implemented after the big holiday 2017. Negotiations with the owner of the property most likely to meet the various criteria expressed are on track. At the same time, the Régie des Bâtiments is busy finalising its draft note to the Council of Ministers, which describes the situation to be solved (benchmarking) and the financial implications. As soon as possible, of course, if there is agreement of the Council of Ministers, the administrative arrangements for the conclusion and signature of a rental contract including, as is the practice, the fixing by common agreement between the owner and the Régie des Bâtiments of the amount of the first installation work (TPI) required, the designation of the contractor chosen and the implementation of the said IPR. The necessary budgetary amounts will form an integral part of the note submitted for approval by the Council of Ministers and, as a corollary, of the lease agreement. At this stage, it is not appropriate to disclose their height here, this being consistent and competitive with the reality of the real estate market of offices in the Brussels-Capital Region. The presentation to the Council of Ministers is expected in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. When you talk about negotiations going in the right direction, does it mean - without revealing any elements of the negotiations; we ourselves remain discreet at communal level - that they will be finalised in the coming weeks, that the real estate file can be presented in the coming months and that we can hope for a change of location by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u35	I'll confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u37	Deputy Prime Minister, in 2015, you announced additional investments for special units, including €2.5 million for the renovation of the special units buildings In your policy note 2016-2017, it is indicated, with respect to the special units buildings, that a study on the renovation of the F building of the Witte barracks in Haelen will begin in 2017. Minister, as you know, we are very vigilant about the development and development of special units. Can you tell me if the renovation of the Witte Barracks in Haelen has begun? Do you have a phase for work? Will they be finished in 2017? Are other sites under the Régie des Bâtiments planned to be assigned to special units of the federal police? If so, which ones? What about the Federal Police Training Centres? Are new settlements envisaged in 2017? And if so, in which communes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u38	Mr Flahaux, the needs of the DSU service – the special forces – have evolved over the last ten years according to the threat and, by corollary, the type of operations carried out by this service and the additional missions it has received. Adaptations had to be made. In the future, the DSU service will be installed in block F of the Haelen Witte complex. Renovation of this infrastructure will make it truly possible to provide it with infrastructure adapted to the functional needs of such a particular unit. The F Block project also includes the construction of an air bridge between the F and E Blocks as well as a secure airlock in the F Block. We have, with the agreement of the Finance Inspectorate, opted for a restricted tender for the designation of the study office. This means that the procedure takes place in two stages: first the selection and then the award. The publication of the selection guide was made in February 2017 and we are waiting for applications for 9 March, so tomorrow. Following an analysis of the applications, which will take three to four months, the allocation guide will be provided to the selected candidates. After analysis of the offers, the study team may be designated. The studies as well as the application for a town planning permit will be carried out in 2018. Work is expected to be completed in 2019. The overall budget for the work is estimated at 14 million, including VAT. The special units of the Federal Police already have several settlements in the country. For obvious security reasons, we cannot specify the exact location of these settlements. However, infrastructure development projects are planned within the framework of the Federal Police Infrastructure Master Plan, which also provides for the upgrading of buildings or premises occupied by special units in the territory. As I have already indicated, the Federal Police Infrastructure Masterplan provides for infrastructure development projects. Among these, the centralization projects targeted in different districts will also aim to upgrade the training infrastructure for all the entities of the Federal Police, in terms of both shooting stands and sports infrastructure enabling training in violence control. These infrastructures should also allow for the organisation of specific continuing training. Other sites will require renovations such as the Canine Police Training Centre and the Driving Training Site.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u39	I thank you for your very comprehensive answer, although, while understanding the reasons for security, I remain a little frustrated on the locations. But I can understand that very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic611x.u40	Questions Nos 17086 and 17087 by Mr Calomne have been postponed.
