ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u1	Minister, the F-35 has problems with software, which makes the testing phase more time-consuming. Moreover, the delay is likely to result in an increase in costs of 1.7 billion dollars. In a note dated 11 December 2015, the then American director for the evaluation of the aircraft, Michael Gilmore, already suggested that more tests were needed, which made the official planning of the technological developments unrealistic. This report was certainly not the first signal of problems around the F-35. A year earlier it appeared that the cannon, one of the most important weapons on board, is not working. This despite the fact that seven years were spent on it and despite a development cost of more than 700 billion euros. The Pentagon held on to all problems in the past, even though these are too many to mention, that the 2017 deadline would not be compromised. Meanwhile, the F-35 engineers warn of a five-month delay due to the problems in aircraft system software. According to other sources, this is even optimistic. Therefore, there is a risk of postponing the planned start of the full production lines for the F-35. The decision to do so, after the current test phase, is already planned for April 2019. In addition, on 13 June it appeared that some 50 American F-35s could no longer enter the airspace because of problems with the oxygen supply for the pilots. This measure comes as a result of five incidents in which the pilots were threatened with an oxygen deficiency. Fortunately, every time the emergency oxygen system came into operation. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Firstly, what is your assessment of the reports on the difficulties encountered in developments around the F-35? Secondly, the large number of problems raises many questions. For example, it was said earlier that a large amount of test points would not be carried out to counter the deadline problems. This is, of course, at the expense of safety. Is adequate attention given to this issue within the Ministry of Defence? Thirdly, the gap is getting worse and worse. Do you think this could cause problems in the event that Belgium opts for the F-35? Fourthly, to what extent do the additional costs affect our country, in case the government chooses this type of aircraft? Fifthly, it is not clear to me from the RfGP what timing our country is sticking to the capabilities requested. Should aircraft have the capacity today or is it sufficient to indicate that they will have the required capacities by the delivery date? Sixth, what is the effect of Trump's import charge on the prices of this device?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u2	(...) participate in the competition. They're clear on everything. If it wasn't clear, they'd have a chance to ask questions. They have also made visits in this respect. As you know, the acquisition procedure has started. It would be inappropriate for me as a minister to make statements today about any candidate. I am asking myself whether I should not include your question in the transparency register, because your constant concern about one particular manufacturer who would participate in our RfGP through the state agency, our question to the market, makes me think that you are acting as a lobbyist for the company in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u3	Minister, I do not even dare to speak to thank you for the answer. I am ashamed in your place that you do not even have the courage to answer a clarification I am asking about the request. I'm just asking you to clarify the capabilities. Should they be present today or should they be present at the delivery date? You won't even answer that. Is that because you don't want to or because you don't know? The insinuations...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u4	If you have read the RfGP, I suspect that you have done so, then you will find that we are not asking for capabilities, but solutions for specific scenarios that we are presenting. We ask the various state agencies to indicate to what extent they provide answers to these different issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u5	And so I still haven't gotten an answer. Is that by 2018, when you plan to place an order, or by the first delivery date of the first aircraft? I still haven't gotten an answer. Whether we are talking about capacities or something else, my question has not been answered. The insinuation that I would belong to the lobbyists of some constructor is on you. In any case, I am very sorry that you do not bother to answer the questions raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u6	I told you that I do not make statements about specific suppliers, Mr Top. I told you that, and I will continue to do so until we have made our choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u7	Madam President, I would like to have an answer to my last question that I added. What is the effect of Trump's import charge on the price of the device? That has nothing to do with the content of the request. It's just about prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u8	I can also give you a very clear answer. Today we have no prizes from any manufacturer, so I cannot answer that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u9	It is not about the prices of aircraft, it is about the levy, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u10	If I understand correctly, you ask what the impact of an import charge that Trump would charge on imported elements in the States would be on an export that the States would do. I cannot comment on that, Mr Top.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u11	I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u12	Minister, in an interview in De Morgen on 15 November 2016, General Vansina says: "We are taking as many measures as possible to minimise the risk of civilian casualties." Further: "That will be a lot harder if the battle in Mosul also takes place more in the city centre. We have ordered new ammunition that has only half as much explosive charge and is therefore usable in densely populated areas. As long as it is not there, we will have to refuse orders in residential areas." In the meantime, the evolution in Mosul has progressed a lot. During the press point of Defence in March 2017, no mention was made of so-called small diameter bombs. The lightest bomb mentioned during the press point weighs 500. As I said, the battle in Mosul has been going on for a long time, but I still have questions about the specific ammunition. What ammo was ordered for the fight in Mosul? Has this ammo been delivered in the meantime? If not, when is the delivery scheduled? The battle for Mosul has indeed been fought in the city center in recent months. What ammunition has Belgium used? Have orders been effectively refused in residential areas because of those unavailable ammunition?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u13	Madam President, Mr Top, in the context of the fight against IS in Mosul, because it is the only type of bomb that we are using, GBU-38 GPS-guided bombs and GBU-12 laser-guided bombs. Our F-16s are only assigned targets for which these ammunition types can be used, as explained in committee behind closed doors. As you know, Mr Top, I am not speaking in public about the rules of engagement. I refer to the Committee on the Succession of Foreign Shipments, behind closed doors, of which you are, by the way, a member. With regard to the small diameter bombs planned for the Belgian arms stock, these offer an additional capacity. Indeed, they will cause even less collateral damage. The first orders have been made. However, the first delivery will not be for the first time, but can be expected from 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u14	Minister, to clarify, did I understand the last thing you said correctly: delivery from 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u16	Then I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u17	Minister, almost a year ago, your plan for the future of the Belgian Defence Department or the strategic vision appeared. Recently we received the plan in book form. The plan sets out some lines for the future. For example, staff costs will be increased from 78 to 49 % by 2030, which means that by 2030 there will be 25 000 full-time equivalents within the Defence staff envelope. The strategic vision is that the different lines of action will be implemented in concrete implementation plans as soon as possible. The fall in staff will undoubtedly also result in a falling demand for infrastructure. In the field of barracks, the government will have to make choices. You would make those choices in 2016 or at least submit them. Meanwhile, we are six months further on and the recent SuperMinister Council would continue to look into the dossier. At least that was announced, but we have not noticed. I have the following questions. Was the file on the barracks discussed at the SuperMinister's Council? If so, what is the state of play? If not, will that file still be discussed? What are the next steps that will be taken in the context of your strategic vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u18	Mr Top, the extra Council of Ministers on 14 May was about internal security. You have undoubtedly read in the press what decisions were taken that day. What you call the barracks plan, neither the adjustment of the retirement age nor the defence budget were the subject of the agenda. As I have said on several occasions, the plans for the optimal geographical insertion of military quarters are, as far as I am concerned, ready. Those plans were worked out in close cooperation by my services and the Defence Staff. As long as there is no general agreement on this, I have the task of managing my department as a good housekeeper. This means that I will take the necessary measures to increase the efficiency of defence and to ensure its proper functioning. As announced in the strategic vision, it was translated into a long list of yards and domains, such as investment, outsourcing of non-military-specific functions, the modernisation of personnel policies, competence development and so on. For example, in the coming weeks and months, the purchase files will be submitted to the Parliamentary Commission for Army Purchases and Sales. A number of files have already been submitted. Some of them have already passed. The three major dimensions, air, land and sea, have already been discussed here. The necessary legal adjustments to staff and training policies will also be made through the appropriate procedures and thus through Parliament. I refer to our meeting last week. As regards pensions, as already mentioned in answers to several parliamentary questions, it was agreed with the trade unions that they would submit a memorandum early in 2017 with all their questions regarding pension reform. This has already been discussed twice with them in order to give our.... the Cabinet of Defence... the opportunity to explain the full statement of the memorandum to the Cabinet of Pensions. Meanwhile, both technically and politically, transition measures are being pursued that will have an impact both on the budgetary aspect of the dossier and on the quantitative and qualitative evolution of Defence's effectiveness. I can repeat that the objectives set out in the strategic vision for numbers and average ages must be fully respected. As far as the heavy-duty professions are concerned, I would like to reiterate that the reform of the military's preferential pension system is accompanied by the introduction of the new pension system which should take account of the gravity of the profession. This is a competence of the National Pension Commission and the Minister responsible. The government will therefore take a position on the latter, following a proposal from the National Pensions Commission. This is happening under the authority of the Minister for Pensions, as I said. Finally, I come to the defence effort. With the strategic vision, the defence effort will increase to 1.3 % of gross domestic product by 2030. So far, the government has approved it up to date. If the government believes it should do more under American pressure, then the government must decide. Doing more means making choices, and only the entire government can do that. So far I have been carrying out what we have declared ourselves to be in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation regarding the further implementation of the strategic plan. In my view, there are still a lot of difficult issues that need to be resolved. I will mention two that you yourself have indicated for a piece. It is about pension problems, linked to the problem of your position and objective of achieving 25 000 full-time equivalents. This issue will have to be discussed in the National Pension Committee. I await the proposals and decisions of the National Pension Committee to see to what extent your strategic vision remains realistic and whether it should not be adjusted. That will soon be on the agenda again. A second point that still worries me, you said just now that we are implementing what has been decided. So you do not carry out what has not been decided. Your strategic plan contained a proposal to rationalize the barracks. You say your plan is ready. I note that there is no consensus within the government on the barracks and that, in my view, this legislature will no longer be able to take any decision. The concern of the staff will therefore remain. People don't know if they can still stay in the barracks in their area. This concern, which has existed for a number of months, up to a year, will therefore continue at least until the end of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u20	Mr Top, I do not share your obsession with closing barracks. We have said that we will rationalise and we are doing so. It is clear that, somewhere in the future, on the road to those 25 000 men, something must also be done in the field of barracks. I have a proposal for that. I will do as I have to, but as long as there is no general agreement, there is no agreement. It's as simple as that. You're turning things around. It's not because I say I'm doing what's decided, that I'm not doing what I can best do within my jurisdiction. If you like to live on so-called raised uncertainty, I can only say one thing: as long as nothing has been announced and changed, nothing will change for the people in the various barracks. We agreed a long time ago with the unions that no changes will be made which will not be communicated at least one year in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u21	Mr. Secretary, I'm not insinuating anything and I'm not fixing it up. That was in the strategic vision. You have announced a rationalisation in your strategic vision. So you've hung a thunder cloud over the barracks that causes concern to the military. I'm not fixing it. You announced it. You're even saying more. You say that your plan is ready, and I simply note that there is no consensus within the entire government and that you are worrying the military. You're the man who drew up the strategic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u22	I'll tell the military they'll know at least a year in advance what's gonna happen. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u23	A year in advance? So they don't know yet. It'll take a long time. It'll be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u24	Of course, it is convenient for you to keep knocking it up, including through the unions, which is absolutely unnecessary. If you like to close barracks, go ahead. It's not my ambition to shut down barracks. Let me be very clear about that. It's my ambition to bring the DOD where she needs to be. We have drawn up a strategic vision for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u25	Minister, it is not my ambition either. You have written that strategic vision with an item Rationalization of the Barracks. Here's your plan. You have caused that concern, no one else. When questions are asked, you pretend it's someone else's fault. You filed your strategic plan and planted that bomb under the barracks and the military, no one else. That's what you're personally responsible for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u26	Madam President, Minister, during the first weeks of June, the General Directorate of Material Resources, off the Belgian coast, organizes tests with unmanned mine control systems in the context of the replacement of existing capacity. With a view to future technologies, both Marines intend to replace their mine-fighting capacity with autonomous systems to improve the operational performance and safety of personnel. A minefield is then laid off the Belgian coast where companies from all over the world show how their systems work. Performance is compared to traditional mine hunting. However, the focus is on autonomous surface and underwater vessels fighting mines remotely. In concrete terms, this means that the new mine control units must be equipped with unmanned systems which must be able to operate at a long distance from the mother ship. The mother ship can stay out of the minefield. This is not only safer because the personnel take less risks, it is also cheaper, because the safety requirements for the mother ship are lower. Resources will become increasingly important: air drones, unmanned vessels, underwater drones and divers that can operate autonomously from the mine-fighting platforms at a large distance. First, how many companies participated in the Technology and Industry Days? Secondly, in which countries are the different companies located? Thirdly, what steps are taken in the replacement dynamometer file after these test days? Fourthly, we are anxiously looking forward to developments in Dutch politics. There is a fear that if the cabinet formation takes place too late and the 2018 budget is drawn up, this may have a negative impact on the future project of replacing the mine hunters. What consequences could this have with regard to its replacement and timing? Fifthly, have you already had contact with Dutch party chairmen or others, such as the informant?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u27	Madam President, Mr Top, nine companies took part in the fight against mines. They were given the opportunity to give a presentation and to carry out a demonstration at the Technology and Industry Days on 15 and 16 June in Zeebrugge. Other companies from the maritime environment were also invited during these days. The participating companies came from Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Norway, Israel, the United States, Italy, Iceland and Portugal. The tests are intended to support the identification of the future MCM concept with the emphasis on autonomy, automation and collaboration with unmanned harnesses. This will determine technological progress and available technologies in the context of modern, unmanned and autonomous mine fighting, inter alia, for the hydrodynamic behaviour of the unmanned harnesses used. The trials fit into the concept of Development and Experimentation which, together with studies and operational war games, will form the basis of future capacity. The project is binationally supported. The various possibilities for acquisition are examined, inter alia in view of evolving national situations. There are regular contacts between the Belgian and Dutch Navys, as well as with the cabinet of the Dutch Minister of Defence. We wish, on our part, to submit to the Council of Ministers, by the end of this year, an application for prior agreement for both programmes. If this timing could be compromised, we must examine with our Dutch partner the possible solutions. In any case, at staff level, we are working very hard to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, also for clarifying the timing that we wish to maintain on the Belgian side, i.e. by the end of the year. I had also asked very clearly to continue to pay attention to the Dutch cabinet formation, so that the same timing could be maintained there. If timing were to be compromised, we should look for alternative solutions to avoid compromising your plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne's 19264 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u30	Mrs. Jadin didn't let me know. Her question is missing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u31	Madam Chair, Minister, the eleven C-130s of our Defence have been grounded following several incidents. This is a decision of the Defence itself and not of the manufacturer of the aircraft in question. I recently read on the Defence site that the C-130s were stealing, which is happy. The staff stated that an investigation was under way, but it would appear that the source of the breakdown was the use of an inadequate lubricant oil during the interviews. It would therefore not be the outdatedness of this aircraft which entered into service in the 1970s that is the cause of this disaster, even if the A400M will replace it soon if Airbus adventure succeeds in overcoming the numerous technical problems discovered during the development of this programme, which we have already discussed together here. In recent days, the Defence has been unable to deploy in a dignified and urgent manner on foreign fields of operation which would have required it. Fortunately, there have been no humanitarian or military disasters in the meantime, which I welcome. Mr. Minister, could you confirm or reverse this assumption of the use of oil inappropriately as the cause of this situation? Could you give me a detailed account of the results of the investigation ordered? What sanctions will be imposed on those responsible for the use of this inadequate lube oil? What are the costs involved in parking three of our aircraft that were at the time abroad where they were not flying? One was stationed in Kindu, Congo, another in Zaragoza, Spain, and a third in the South of France. In general, what is the total cost of this incident? Finally, what steps has Defence taken to address an international crisis requiring the mobilization of transport aircraft? Have contacts been made with neighbouring or allied countries to overcome this lack of temporary means of transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u32	Mevrouw de voorzitter, Mr Hellings, with regard to the technical problems encountered by the C-130, I refer to my reply of 14 June last to Mr Yüksel's oral parliamentary question No 18283. With regard to the oil used, it is true that the 15th Wing had changed hydraulic oil type since the end of 2016. It is a synthetic oil recommended by the United States Airforces for C-130. This oil is listed in the U.S. resupply system. Since at the beginning the cause of the breakdowns was not found and in order not to exclude anything, it was decided to empty this oil and to use again the old type of oil. In any case, no one has committed any fault and there is no question of sanction. Unfortunately, planes sometimes fail abroad. In this case, four aircraft were abroad. In the meantime, nine C-130 aircraft have returned to operation. The two aircraft that are still inoperative are located abroad, in Portugal and in Brazzaville. There is no extraordinary cost associated with this breakdown, as resources are provided for in the operating budget. The problems encountered do not jeopardize the continuation of the C-130 mission until the arrival of the A400M. The temporary unavailability of the C-130s has been absorbed by shifting missions and using our partner countries via the EATC.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am glad to hear that we have found the cause and that she is not the leader of our military. You're saying no one did anything wrong, but actually, yes. It is likely that the American ally, by inserting the use of this type of oil in any of the official documents used for maintenance, committed a mistake. I hope that the presence of this inadequate oil in any specifications...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u34	That's not what I said! I said we changed the oil so we wouldn't rule out anything. But it was not found that oil was the cause of problems with hydraulic systems. I did not say that oil was the cause of the problems, it is not yet proven. There was a problem with a plane and we stopped it for a safety issue, which is a normal procedure. We looked for the cause of the breakdown and, in order not to exclude anything, the oil was changed. But there is no evidence today that this oil was the cause of the breakdown.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u35	Minister, you told me that planes were on the ground to avoid any risk, which is the only thing to do. We found ourselves for several weeks without airlifted capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u37	Yes, via the allies. But in our own right, we no longer had airborne capacity. Secondly, you explained to me that we are not sure that synthetic oil is at the root of the problem. However, before, when synthetic oil was used, the aircraft did not fly. Once the previous oil was reused, the aircraft flew. This is proof that the oil was involved. Anyway, that's what I understand. What is very important is that I learn that four aircraft were grounded, two of which are now located in Portugal and Congo-Brazzaville. We are aware of the ultra-strategic importance of transport. Fortunately, we have not had any crises in Europe or Africa that would have justified the use of these aircraft. Fortunately, your services have found the cause. Fortunately, our system allows us to rely on allies when we do not have airborne capacity. Remember, when France, in Mali, asked us for our assistance in transport. We see how essential transportation is today, including for armies much larger than ours. It is therefore important to check that we can count on all our planes to respond to a possible crisis in the future. I am pleased to know that Belgium is not responsible for this technical problem which could have had serious consequences from a strategic point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u38	Mr Hellings, to clarify: I understand that you said that we must be able to count on all our planes. But in reality, that's not true. We have eleven had to achieve a rate ambition. The target rate is less than eleven. That is exactly why international cooperation systems, such as the EATC, exist. I have already said here that there are limits to pooling and sharing, but this is a good example of pooling and sharing that works. For example, the plane that was then stationed in Kindu. We had sent a Portuguese plane; but there were other problems, relating to visas, to return to the Congo. This was clearly a situation where we needed help; and the EATC partners were able to help us. This is to ensure that there will always be the capacity we need to achieve our ambition rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u39	I agree with you. Pooling and sharing is an important element. It was also seen in this case that it was able to respond to the strategic challenge of always being able to benefit from an airborne transport capacity. That's very good. I encourage you to apply the same method for our bomber fighters since Europe does not lack this type of aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u40	So you say we have to buy the same as our allies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u41	Minister, that is absolutely not what I said. But we can count on our allies by applying the same method as for airborne transport. Belgium has purchased seven A400M transport aircraft... which are not bomber fighters – plus the one from Luxembourg but this country is not yet annexed to Belgium, Minister, even if that is your wish. We could therefore apply the same method.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u42	Minister, I am not a lobbyist, but I am going to ask a question about flying aircraft. In about ten years, unmanned aircraft, the drones, will undoubtedly take over more tasks from their manned variant. If we want to modernise our air force, we must also use it, as described in your strategic vision. It is an en-en-story, as in the future manned aircraft will still have to carry out certain tasks. Other countries don't sit still. For example, the United States and Israel have been active in this area for a long time and the United Kingdom and France have also started a joint development programme in 2014. This Future Combat Air System is currently in a 12-month study phase. Both governments put £1.5 billion on the table for this. The development of two prototypes is foreseen before the end of this year. Afterwards, the testing and evaluation phases will follow to finally start production by 2030. If Belgian companies are involved in this part of the defence market, it can also be a huge lever and incentive for our research institutions and companies, with job creation and spin-offs in the civil sector, a good thing for the whole economy. In that context, I have a number of questions. How do you view a Belgian participation in the development of offensive and unmanned aircraft? What share will drones have in the Belgian army by 2030? What share do the drones already have in the European armed forces? How do you see this evolving? What role can the European Commission's recent proposals on research, development and procurement funds have in this context? What can that mean for our country? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u43	For the time being, the DOD uses drones mainly in the domain of intelligence, search, surveillance and reconnaissance. Our MALE drones that are eventually part of the replacement of the B-Hunter will also have the opportunity to act armed. So they're armorable. We have opted for a phaser, as described in the strategic vision. In a first phase, two medium-altitude long endurance or MALE drone systems will be purchased. In a second phase, investments will be made through participation in the European MALE development programme, which you mentioned, with the aim of acquiring four additional systems. In addition, Belgian soldiers in NATO participate in the NATO Alliance Ground Surveillance or AGS programme, providing a high-level UAS capacity. A UAS capacity is also provided for in the purchase of the new frigates. Defence is also currently studying the possibilities of counter drone capacity in close cooperation with the other security bodies of our country and the acquisition of mini drones and tactical drones for the armed forces. Providing a complete overview of the state of the drones situation in the European countries is not an easy exercise. Most European countries own drone systems of different classes. The drones will continue to be developed in the future in quantitative, qualitative and capacity-building terms, but they will continue to be complementary to manned aircraft for a long time to come. The European Defence Fund (EDF) is to be followed up by a further question on this subject, which will support research and development of programmes that will be identified by the EU Member States. The need for European reconnaissance drones has already been recognised. Belgium is currently an observer in the programme, which means that we do not participate actively in the research, but we can join the programme in implementing the strategic vision of the Belgian Defence Department. If EU Member States also recognise unmanned air combat capacity as a priority, the European Defence Fund could financially support research and development for such capacity. I would refer you to the answer I will give to another question in order to explain to you the correct mechanism. Today we already do tests with all kinds of drones, such as small drones, within various elements of mainly the land component. In the short term, we will also receive the first deliveries from the mini drones ordered together with Luxembourg, the Ravens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I am pleased to hear that we are observers in this programme and will be able to participate actively in it over time. That's good for our industry. Keep up the good work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u45	Minister, in De Standaard a few weeks ago a letter was sent to you by some of the staff of the Counter Intelligence (CI) department. They deal with a number of staggering issues: poor or non-existent personnel policy, inadequate staff, outdated and even dangerous infrastructure, a lack of professionalism in the management of the ADIV and so on. In addition, we are told that there are a number of problems with regard specifically to the civil servants of the service: different statutes that are mixed up, contractual arrangements that do the same work as statutory regulations for significantly lower wages, difficult recruitments, etc. A selection is currently underway, but it is far from certain that the ADIV will be able to choose the best candidates from that selection. Moreover, it is reportedly a missed opportunity to provide contractual staff with a full status. I would like to draw your attention to an in-depth audit of the ADIV carried out by the I Committee in 2010-2011. There were already major problems, such as lack of vision and planning, lack of staff management, lack of technical know-how, for example in data management, a problem that is also identified today in the report of the Committee of Inquiry, the material resources, the great progress of military management. First of all, how do you respond to the letter from the civilian staff of the CI? Do you know of the problems they raise? Secondly, do you have any knowledge of the specific problems of civilian personnel in all the divisions and departments of the ADIV? You are also the Minister of Civil Service. Can you, in this capacity, take initiatives to harmonise the statutes within the service? The report of the Committee of Inquiry also addresses this problem. Thirdly, the audit of 2010-2011 was very critical for the service. Has an improvement path been drawn up at that time? Has there been any reform? Have these reforms been assessed in the light of the audit conclusions? In other words, has the ADIV taken into account the results of the audit? Fourthly, you were undoubtedly aware of the recommendations of the 2011 audit when you took office in 2014. Did you insist that the conclusions of the audit should be taken into account? What measures have you taken to get the ADIV back on track?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u46	Minister, a leaked letter shows that the ADIV security service is not working properly. At the end of last year, a chief commissioner and seven commissioners of the Counter Intelligence department wrote an alarming letter of six pages to the CHOD and to you. I would like to read you a passage from this: 'internal competition, incorrect flow of information, confusion towards domestic and foreign partners and mistrust between the different departments creates problems'. According to the signatories to the letter, there is first and foremost a dramatic lack of staff at the service, resulting in discouragement and disillusionment. The service could no longer fulfil its obligations. Apparently, the Committee I will now review the ADIV. The coalition agreement of 11 October 2014 contains the following passage: "Defension will have a modern military intelligence service, organised and equipped for the security of national interests, as provided for in the law, and for support for military operations. A study is being carried out on the role, powers, funding, internal organisation and capacity of the intelligence services and cooperation between them, as well as on the direction and control of these bodies. On the basis of this study, an optimization of the operation takes place. This need will therefore be taken into account in the evaluation of the legislation on information methods." In your strategic vision for Defence, you state that the ADIV will place an even stronger emphasis on synergies with other national actors. There will be greater coordination of the missions of the two Belgian intelligence services, but also coordination with the integrated police and the police force, which should lead to greater efficiency, which will enable us to provide more security by the same means. On 20 June, Lieutenant General Eddy Testelmans announced his resignation from the ADIV as a result of the letter. I have the following questions on this subject: Firstly, when will the Committee I report be completed? Will that report be explained in this committee? Secondly, do you recognise the problem of lack of personnel within military intelligence? What measures will you take to ensure this? Thirdly, in its final report, the parliamentary committee of inquiry on terrorist attacks identified the sometimes inadequate exchange of information between the different security services as the main pain. According to your strategic vision published a year ago, synergies and cooperation will be strongly promoted. What steps have been taken in the past year? What is the state of play in implementing your strategic vision in this area? Fourthly, there is also a study in the coalition agreement which will examine the role, powers, funding, internal organisation and capacity of the intelligence services and the cooperation between them, as well as the direction and control of these bodies. On my oral question of 27 May 2015, you state that this study will be an integral part of the strategic vision of Defence. However, I have little or nothing to say about this. Is it possible to share that study with this committee? Finally, how are you going to deal with Lieutenant General Testelmans' resignation in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u47	Madam President, Minister, a well-functioning military intelligence service is essential to our security policy. That's where it turns out to be completely wrong. There has been a lot of discussion in the media about this. This has reached a climax with the resignation of the head of the service, General Eddy Testelmans. This resignation dates back to June 20th and came, among other things, following a critical letter indicating problems that go beyond the general himself. There are several legal proceedings and complaints about internal abuses with the ADIV, including the DKM... Complaints Management Service... and the services of the federal judicial police in the military environment. Even if these complaints were purely personal accounts, it is clear that this indicates a deep malaise in the ADIV. This malaise goes beyond just the head of the service. I have five questions for you, Minister. First of all, did you direct General Testelmans' resignation? How do you evaluate this discharge? Secondly, do you agree that the problems are much deeper and that the resignation of Testelmans does not essentially solve anything? What will you do to remedy the dysfunctions within the ADIV? Thirdly, are you prepared to advocate a full career for citizens within the ADIV, up to and including management? Are you prepared to plead for a discipline of intelligence and security services for officers? Part of the problem is undoubtedly that officers from other units are now entering the ADIV on high management positions without any military intelligence expertise. This is not conducive to the functioning of the service. Fourthly, do you confirm that there are legal proceedings in progress concerning a number of abuses of the ADIV? How many cases are we talking about? Are we dealing with serious files? What conclusions do you draw from this? Besides, regarding the operations of the ADIV, we are getting reports of direct micro-level intervention of such operations by management, in particular Testelmans and co. This would also be done through unprotected networks, which is not ideal for military intelligence. My final question is in line with what Mr Van Hecke has just asked you. There is an effective Committee I audit dating from 2010-2011 which contains a number of recommendations. You've been Secretary of Defense for some time now and have been responsible for the ADIV. Why did it take so long for the ball to roll? I am sure you have been aware of the problems with the ADIV for some time now. Why didn't they intervene here, if you know the report anyway? I think we could have avoided press leaks to a large extent if the problems of the ADIV had been addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u48	Military intelligence is, of course, an important part of Defence, especially in the context of international terrorism. Following a critical internal letter from a Head of Service, a Chief of Staff and seven Commissioners on the functioning of the ADIV at the end of 2016, Lieutenant General Testelmans resigned as Head of the Department on 20 June 2017. The Committee I began an investigation of the facts in January. I have a number of questions about that. I know that the letter is the subject of an investigation with the Committee I. Can we have access to it? Can you explain or estimate the problems mentioned in the ADIV? The resignation of Mr Testelmans and the appointment of General Van de Voorde is an important step. Pending the report of the Committee I, do you envisage new and additional measures? Within what timing will this happen? I have a very specific and important question. What about the cooperation between the intelligence services, the security of the State and the ADIV with regard to the fight against terrorism? According to the press, this letter identifies dysfunctions and does not cooperate with one another, nor with fellow Members from abroad. That's a serious problem. Even apart from the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, we know that sharing and dealing with information, including in military circles, is a major problem. I read in the press that foreign colleagues no longer trust our military intelligence services. What measures are being taken in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u49	I have two preliminary remarks to make. Madam President, I think you are doing an excellent job here today and that you are leading this sitting in a very neutral manner. I hope that the absence of the PS Group is not an act of rebellion. They may have other cats to fling. I would also like to wish General Claeys good luck in his new position. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to a question I raised in this committee on 14 June. I then asked a question about cybersecurity, but also about the problem that had just become known in the media, namely the pain points of the ADIV. At that time, the Minister said that he was unable to respond pending the results of the study conducted by the Committee I. In the meantime, I have taken the opportunity to raise the issue in the Committee I's advisory committee. There it has been reported that a report with the results will follow very soon. I certainly look forward to it. As has already been outlined by colleagues, there is now the changed context with the resignation of General Testelmans and the appointment of Mr Van de Voorde. I have a few more questions. Firstly, does the resignation of Mr Testelmans have an impact on the research being carried out by the Committee I? Secondly, when can we expect the results of this study? Thirdly, is the appointment of Mr Van de Voorde already official? Has he enlisted yet? If not, when will this happen? Fourthly, has he received a specific assignment, knowing that there have been a number of pain points uncovered in recent weeks? Fifthly, I would like to join Mr Van Hecke's questions on the 2011 audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since I was the recipient of the letter from some Commissioners of the Counter Intelligence service, I am of course aware of its content and have been able to take note of their grievances. In fact, I had already received those responsible in my cabinet every time they asked me to do so. That happened twice. Mr Top, on this basis, I asked the Committee I to conduct an independent investigation. When I receive a complaint letter, it is not always clear to me whether those complaints are justified. I would therefore ask the special committee to carry out an investigation. Mr Buysrogge, the dismissal of Lieutenant General Testelmans has no impact on this investigation. As far as the investigation is concerned, I was informed that the Committee will deliver an interim report by September. On the basis of that report, it will be necessary to consider what additional measures can be taken. Mr De Vriendt, this government has made the choice to restore the historical underinvestment in the security apparatus mentioned in the letter. I have done so for the services under my jurisdiction. For the ADIV, I can refer you to the strategic vision and the military programme law that guarantees the investments to be made. As far as the budget is concerned, in line with the strategic vision paper for Defence, this government provides EUR 54.5 million for investments in the large basic equipment for the benefit of the ADIV. The strategic vision also provides for it to be translated, because part of my answer has been written in French into a substantial increase in the number of staff. In addition to long-term measures described in the strategic vision, I have taken a number of short-term measures. For example, I have asked my officials to examine, together with the heads of intelligence, how recruitment procedures can be speeded up. The Defence Staff has also taken a number of measures by strengthening the ADIV with military coming from other units. In addition, I have decided that the appropriations made available under the interdepartmental commission on terrorism will be largely for the benefit of the ADIV. In addition to an additional budget of 4.4 million euros in 2016, this gave rise to an authorisation to recruit 92 full-time equivalents on top of the planned annual envelope. I refer in this connection to what I have just said about the Selor procedure, in particular that this recruitment does not, of course, take place overnight. Moreover, I have repaired the legal vacuum which prevented the recruitment and promotion of legal persons. This finally enabled a new Commissioner to be elected and appointed after a few years and the planned promotions to take place. You and I note that all the measures were taken prior to the date on which the letter was leaked in the press. The ADIV's order also took measures after the Committee I audit in 2011. Synergies were sought between the intelligence services through working groups. Those responsible for the management of staff were identified. Methods have been searched and found to improve the infoflow. I would also like to stress that citizens can develop a full career in the ADIV. I am referring here to the legal vacuum that existed until recently. For a few years, as you know, there have been citizens taking key positions in the ADIV. In addition, the status of civilian personnel in the ADIV has already been improved. On the recommendations contained in the final report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on 22 March 2016, it was decided, under the impetus of the National Security Council, that the intelligence and security services will draw up a common action plan after analysis. To my question... that question wasn't asked. So I won't answer them either. Now I come to the question about the dismissal of Lieutenant General Testelmans. He himself made his mandate available. He informed me first of all on 14 June that he would do so. In this respect, I also refer to statements he has made publicly, in which he particularly mentions the lack of trust of his closest associates. In that sense, working had become very difficult for him. I would also like to express my particular appreciation for the work done by Mr Testelmans. He was succeeded by Lieutenant General Van de Voorde on 21 June, as was already announced. Mr Yüksel, when it comes to cooperation between the services in the fight against terrorism, I can confirm that, contrary to what is often believed, the intelligence and security services cooperate fairly well. This cooperation is done, among other things, by sharing information through a fusion cell, in which all the services involved are represented. I refer to what I have just said about the report of the Committee of Inquiry on the attacks of 22 March 2016. We are awaiting a concrete plan from the services themselves to take further steps. However, I would like to conclude by saying that it always takes two people to dance the tango.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. When we see all the problems listed in this round of questions, I think that the operation of the ADIV is really not going well, and that is an understatement. In the report of our committee of inquiry, we also mentioned a lot of dysfunctions, which are diplomatically expressed, but the impression was that this could certainly be improved. There is a lot of criticism of the information position, there are problems with data management and data flow, also internally. If it cannot be properly arranged internally, it is difficult to exchange and cooperate with other services. That's a real pain in the ass. What happened to the information on the follow-up to the report of the soldiers on the street? The ADIV refers to the police and police to the ADIV. These are just a few elements that have emerged in the report. I believe that an improvement is absolutely necessary. You say that you will draw up a common action plan with the security of the state. Our committee of inquiry has also asked that these two services should sit together in order to identify the synergies that can and can be implemented. You say that working groups have already been set up following the 2011 audit to the ADIV and that synergies with State Security have been examined. I must say, we have seen very little synergies in our research. I would like to know what results the working group has achieved in terms of synergies. Just one more point. With regard to these additional resources, there is indeed an interdepartmental commission of 400 million and funds are allocated to different services, 92 full-time equivalents, 4.4 million. That is important but it is not so that because there are additional resources and staff the engine is also oiled. We need more than resources. Use those people, use those budgets, but also work on that management and the operation to get rid of that pain in the short term. That's our message.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u52	Mr Van Hecke, I would like to clarify a number of points. As you know, I concluded an agreement on a joint analyst's school very soon after my appointment with Minister None. Again I say: It takes two to tango. In the context of the fight against terrorism and in the context of data management, we noted at a certain point that a number of things had to be done together. Sometimes it slows down the file. If we say that our data management needs to improve, then the call for tenders is underway today. We have played pilot for the other services in order to be able to do open source research and to buy such more and for that purpose the necessary information technology, which is now in procurement. You are right, of course, that many synergies are possible and need to be sought, but that does not always make it faster. Our procedures are what they are. As I said, we are recruiting within the deadlines that are legally somewhat feasible. The same applies to public procurement in terms of data management and so on. There are also steps that need to be taken. The budgets have to be there. I refer to the past when those budgets were simply not there. In the priority lists, that sort of thing is usually at the bottom of the list. That there is room for improvement, let me be clear about that. It seems clear to me that we need to work on good management. Again, I can only express my displeasure but above all my concern about the fact that such documents leak from a service such as the ADIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u53	If documents leak, maybe it's because people have been trying for years in vain to raise problems and not see a solution. I am not going to comment on this, but many problems have already been clearly detected in 2011. If we are now asking for greater cooperation between State Security and ADIV, I understand that this needs to be properly considered. Between 2011 and 2017, there have been six years. I have the impression that the problems already identified were not really addressed. You refer to investments, open source and so on. That's all interesting, but the storage and data retrieval still pose a problem. All this was already noted in 2011. I'm not saying this is all your fault. You also have predecessors. However, I have the impression that this report has remained in the drawer for a long time and has not been done enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u54	I will not comment on the results of the Committee of Inquiry. It is good that you had this examined by the Committee I. You say there will be an interim report in September 2017. Will this be discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u55	The Committee I will discuss this. The author of a report determines the classification of the report. The I Committee shall be under the supervision of Parliament and not of the Government. There is a committee which can have access to everything that the Committee I does. There is a newspaper that has access to such documents before. We all know them. It is also possible to produce two versions of a report: a public one and a less public one. I put the question to the Committee I. To that extent, I believe my authority, whatever is normal, extends.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u56	With regard to the specific problem of the ADIV and the exchange with the other services, I refer to the government agreement in which there is a study on the role of the intelligence services and cooperation in this area. That study is very hard to find. Is it available or not? Has this study been discussed in some committee? This problem has been going on for years. With only additional budgets and additional staff, we will not be able to solve the problem. It will take more than that to straighten this out. You rightly refer to a number of procedures which do not make it easier. That's also correct. Is it possible to access that study?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u57	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u58	That's a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u59	Madam President, Minister, all of this gives a little picture of what is going on with the ADIV. There is little direction, a lack of competence, guerre des chefs, you name it. It is difficult to deny that the government is responsible for this and the previous one, as the previous overall audit report prepared by the I Committee dates back to 2011. You've actually let it go too far. You have been Minister for three years and this general problem, which has now surfaced through various channels...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u60	Two and a half years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u61	I am going to go upstairs because the problem is so serious. However, this general problem must not be new, the things that are emerging now, but also the report from 2011. You outlined a number of measures you took before the letter was leaked. It is good that there are, but they are not of that nature to solve those fundamental problems, such as data management. I do not think it is necessarily necessary for you to wait for an agreement with the Justice Department before dealing with internal data management at the ADIV. I think this should be a priority after all. The problem was also outlined, because you did not really consider that officers of other units, with no intelligence experience, should be brought to the top of the ADIV in high management positions. That might be a general problem with the Defense Department, that rotation that's possible. I would like to draw attention to that. Can't it be remediated? Then there is interference in operations and the like, of course not done, from the ADIV summit to the micro level, often without much consultation or strategy. You say you're going to invest more in the ADIV. More money, more staff, yes, but as Mr Van Hecke just said, there are structural problems. There is still so much money to be spent on this, it is also about management and competence, about a particular culture. That must also be clearly addressed. At least now there's a window of opportunity, I think. You've got two more years, completed. Now it really has to be better. Much has come to the surface, but we must not want any more bodies to fall out of the closet, that there really is a safety risk and so on because of the malfunctioning of the ADIV. This has taken far too long and I would not be surprised, as my colleague Mr Yüksel has just said, that colleagues abroad are beginning to ask questions, that this cooperation is being held up a little bit, that people are starting to get suspicious of working with us. The net result is less efficient safety operations. I think it's time to put a stop to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u62	On the basis of the information available to us, Minister, a number of things need to be done. You have taken a number of provisional measures. You expect measures to follow after the mid-term report of September 2017. I insist that the ADIV is an important key element in our information gathering and exchange. So there must be no weak link in that chain. I therefore believe that we urgently need to resolve a number of issues. Mr President, when the interim report arrives, it is not bad to invite the new chief of the ADIV here in committee to have a discussion on this subject on the basis of the measures, to see what he will do with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u63	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You outline that a number of improvements have been made since 2011 and since the arrival of the letter at the end of 2016. The problem shows that everything can and must be improved and that unfortunately the mill grinds slowly. We all benefit from a well-functioning military intelligence service. I hope that the results that are now emerging will also be used by the new leadership to be translated into action plans, into policy plans, into operationality. Nor is it entirely clear to me to what extent the new top man has been given a specific assignment to make work on that. I also think it would be useful to invite him here sooner or later to exchange views with him. In any case, the problem will not cease in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u64	Mr Buysrogge, I think the new general at the head of the ADIV knows very well what direction the ADIV should take in the future. He has a number of reports on the past and studies available to him. I think he will concentrate primarily on getting to know his people and getting a good look at the problems that arise there. Problems can be raised and letters leaked, but each individual still has a certain responsibility for cooperation within his service. This applies not only to the military heads of service, but also to the civilian heads of service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u65	Mrs Kattrin Jadin has not informed us, so her question No. 19353.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u66	Madam President, Minister, the law of 10 April 2016 regulates distance working within the Ministry of Defence and has been in operation for several months now. A few weeks ago, I already requested the figures to get a look at the number of military and civilian personnel using satellite, home or teleworking. I want to thank you for the answers I have already received. In that list, it is noted that there are almost no volunteers working remotely and that only a very limited number of soldiers use them. In addition, there is no combat unit on the list. However, that unit also has administrative functions where remote working might be possible. Mr. Secretary, can some members of the combat units work remotely? Is there any obvious reason why volunteers hardly make use of this possibility? What information channels were used to inform the military about the remote working possibilities? How many applications were submitted in total and how many were possibly refused? Are actions being taken to further promote work at a distance among military personnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u67	Madam President, Mr Top, staff in combat units can also work remotely, of course, in so far as their function is appropriate. Remote work is possible, both on a regular and occasional basis, depending on the staff member's service capabilities and assignments. A decision on whether or not to work at home is therefore made between the person concerned and his head of service. It is true that voluntary tasks, such as fuseliers, cooks, drivers and technicians, tend to be more difficult to work remotely. I don't think neighbors would appreciate it if people wanted to practice in their own garden. As you can see from the figures I gave you in reply to your written question No. 1116 of 27 March, mainly the bars and administrative units use the measure and that applies in principle to all degrees in those units. The directives on remote working can be consulted by all Defence personnel via the military network and are therefore well known. For the time being, no statistics were kept on refused applications. Earlier this year, in response to an oral question by Mrs Hufkens, I said that we are making efforts to replace desktops with laptops as far as possible, because they are more convenient for working remotely, but no other actions are being taken to promote working remotely. By this I mean that remote working is a measure taken to achieve a better work-life balance, and it is therefore a favour that we should not actively promote. If the possibilities are known, then that should suffice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u68	Minister, there is a difference between being aware of the possibilities and offering them effectively by sufficiently communicating them with the employees in the field. You do not need to call it a promotion for me, but there must be sufficient communication about the possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u69	(...) I still believe that coming together in a combat unit, where, for example, some things are prepared together, has added value.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u70	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u71	So if you're asking me what I'm doing for promotion, I'll answer that I'm facilitating. I've created the legal possibilities. The possibilities are known. I will not take any active action to tell the staff that they can stay at home and not come to their unit. I'd like to add that nuance to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u72	Minister, in your first reply it seemed as if it was purely negative. However, the possibility is provided for in the law and the law was extended, giving the military that possibility. That is why I call upon you to do so. There are also advantages to it. I agree with you when you say that working in one unit is conducive to cooperation and group feeling, but for some functions and tasks it is not necessary to go to the workplace on a daily basis, because they can also be carried out from another place by telework. In reply to my question about the volunteers, you have said that it is indeed sometimes more difficult to facilitate work at home or telework. That's right. However, I believe that the number of refusals should be evaluated in the future. The law dates back to 2016, but you replied that there are no figures on the refusals today, because there are no statistics on them. I would suggest that we do so in the long term, so that we can find out where there may be a glitch or so that we can see whether there are differences between the units in the judgements on the questions of the military.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u73	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Delannois' 19409 and 1941 are being postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 19473 is still being presented today, but he is now going to the Health Committee. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 19554 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 19618 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u74	Minister, I quote an article from De Morgen of 24 June on Operation Vigilant Guardian. The military are concerned about the workload: overfatigue weakens our attention. ........................................................................................ A second quote: "Behind the barbed wire of the barracks in Peutie, where the soldiers stay the night that secure Brussels, some hang their helmet permanently on the hook." In one unit alone, four officers left voluntarily in the last month. A third quote: "Our current working conditions are too poor, which is very high for us. There will have to be higher echelon actions to change anything or even more of our people will leave Defense, with even more negative consequences for our undermanned assignments. The expectations of our military are no longer realistic. They can go home once in six weeks for a short period of time and work hours through, get too little space to relax. No human being can sustain this for a long time. Six months ago, I asked you a question about the number of redundancies in the Defense Department after 20 out of 82 pilots in Melsbroek considered a switch to the private sector. This would be a direct consequence of the government's intentions to raise the retirement age of the military to 63 years. In addition, many soldiers carry out more tasks than the main occupation for which they were recruited. Your answer at the time showed that there was an increase in the number of recruitments. However, not extreme or substantial. Over the last few months, we have again received several signals from military forces who would like to leave the Defense Department but did not get that chance because they would not have made enough progress within the Defense Department. Mr. Secretary, I would like you to update the following figures. How many applications B, C4 did Defence receive in the first half of 2017? How many layoffs were refused? I would also like to receive an answer to the following questions. For what reasons are dismissals refused? Can Defense continue to motivate military personnel who have previously resigned but have been refused? What steps are being taken to this end? What prospects do you see for the future, including through the creation of the security corps? What are your deadlines for this, together with your colleague? Finally, can you confirm that the Homeland operation is becoming more and more the character of a permanent operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u75	Minister, as part of the anti-terrorist measures, our soldiers have been on the streets for two years now. Last week, the Vigilant Guardian operation was extended by one month until the beginning of August. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the military once again for their efforts and for the efforts they have made in the past period. Their contribution is absolutely not in question. I would like to stress this formally once again. The stakes of course continue to weigh on the Defense Department. That's not new. According to my information, in 2016 and 2017, more than 100 officers would have left Defense. How many soldiers left the army in 2016 and 2017? What was the main reason for their departure? What measures will you and will you take to combat the spill-over, which is, of course, linked to the problems raised?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u76	Madam President, Defence received 130 applications for dismissal from 1 January 2017 until 29 June 2017. 19 of these applications were currently refused because they are contrary to the interests of the service or because the return condition was not met. Defence must invest in the formation of the military, and it is clear that defence can also expect a return from the individual. The return is an integral part of the G1 Statute. As far as the figures for 2016 are concerned, I would like to refer you to the answer given to the written question No. 1008 of 11 January 2017. As has often been mentioned in the committee, military personnel leaving the Defence Department must not give up any reason to leave. In any case, Defense remains committed to improving the working conditions of the military. For example, in the case of people whose dismissal was refused, a change of place of employment or position, the provision of an adapted work schedule, distance work or a better distribution of the workload could provide a solution. There is also a focus on recruitment. For example, the recruitment of new young recruits will in future allow a better distribution of the workload among the operational military. The government has also decided to set up the security force in the federal police. The timing and modalities of that security corps are not within my jurisdiction. I would like to reiterate that the need to carry out the Vigilant Guardian operation is linked to the level of threat. The threat level is determined by the OCAD and is still 3. In this light, the government still considers it necessary to call on the military. However, this does not prevent Defence from looking further at how to optimise this effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for the figures for 2017. It is a remark and a concern that lives with you because you yourself have said that you want to improve working conditions. You are now even referring to the possibility of teleworking, and to changing and improving conditions for the military. That is, in fact, to ensure that there are no redundancies or that the return demanded under the Staff Regulations is achieved without a military decision to submit his resignation letter. You rightly referred to the service interest or the return period of a military, because there was investment in those military. It remains for me, and probably also for many leaders, a concern that a soldier, who has submitted his resignation letter, has already turned the key and closed the door behind him, even if that resignation is refused. It is of the utmost importance, also for the safety of his colleagues, for example, that every effort should be made to motivate those soldiers so that the safety of the person concerned and his fellow Members, who must be on the streets with him, can be guaranteed. There's one last thing to worry about. In your answer to my last question on Operation Homeland, you referred to the level of threat. However, I would like to refer to your colleague, Minister Jambon. In an interview he indicated that the tasks of the paratroopers are not fun at the moment. He made the comparison with the tasks of soldiers in the trenches of the First World War. That was a dull job, too. He also speaks of a crisis situation. At the start of this operation, it was also presented to the military as a crisis situation. That situation has been going on for a long time now. The terrorist threat level 3 must have been correctly assessed by the OCAD. But we need to take steps to ensure that the military do not continue to be used for street surveillance, but can be replaced by the police in a structural way. In this way, we will probably also be able to reduce the number of military layoffs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for the figures. If we look at the first half of this year, we can see that 130 people have left DOD. That's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u79	Sometimes we have to put things in perspective as well. Is it such a tragedy that 100 people out of a total of 30 000 are asking for their resignation? I think the private sector would be pleased with this kind of relationship. There'd be a lot of jealousy. If you look at other services, you will undoubtedly stumble on figures that go at least in the same direction. So let's put it into perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u80	In fact, I think you're right. These ratios may be negligible, but the number of more than 100 people is also a signal. For some, it is inevitable that they want to leave Defence at some point. It's a choice of its own. On the one hand, we need to look for ways to relieve the pressure. In that respect, it is good to evaluate this operation, which will probably happen again soon. An evaluation of the way in which a contribution is made must be made. On the other hand, the security force is targeted every time we talk about that operation. This problem has been going on for a long time. In the past, I have asked you and your colleague from the Interior about this. The security force can now become concrete. I'll see what's going on with the Home Office. This will not solve all the problems, but it could be the beginning of a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u81	Madam President, Minister, everyone remembers the ten paratroopers who fell in Kigali, Rwanda, on 7 April 1994. Street names are given to them so that their sacrifice does not fall into oblivion. Belgium participates in many operations outside its territory. It must be his pride. Minister, what has been the human impact since then in the various operations that have been carried out? Can you tell me what happened to the families of the military victims of these conflicts? Do they receive a pension? Financial assistance from National Defence? Psychological help? What is National Defence's support for injured soldiers in external operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u82	Mevrouw de voorzitter, Mr Flahaut, since 1995, 16 Belgian soldiers have died during external missions. In the event of death, the family members are entitled to a funeral allowance corresponding to the last gross monthly salary. Survivors of the active member or member of the deceased Reserve Force on duty may receive a survivor's pension. In addition, an increase in family allowances is possible under certain conditions. In addition, the Defence may award specific compensation as a result of intentional violence, demining, parachute jumping, an accident aboard a military aircraft or a military mission abroad. In the event of a death in a transaction or humanitarian aid action, the insurer may refuse to cover the life insurance or any remaining balance due. In this case, the Defence may, under certain conditions, pay the beneficiary the amount of the insurance. At the time of the announcement of the death and repatriation of the body, the deceased beneficiary's entourage is provided with psychological support. Subsequently, the family continues to receive administrative, financial, psychosocial and legal support from OCASC. When a soldier is injured in operation, the military medical chain provides care from the place where the person is injured and takes care of the patient until final treatment in Belgium, while providing further care and preparation for reintegration. In addition to medical care, each member injured on mission abroad will be cared for by a psychotherapist. The Defence naturally oversees the rights of the member when he or she is on a mission abroad. Two commissions support members in the event of illness or injury contracted during the performance of their mission. The Committee on Reparation Pensions and the Military Fitness and Reform Committee both have the right to grant a pension. The two potential pensions are cumulative. Entitlements may also claim this pension after the member's death. If the member is the victim of an accident or illness during a military operation or humanitarian action abroad or even during a demining mission in Belgium, the pension shall be increased by 25%. HZIV covers its health costs for the rest of its life. It is also able to rely on moral assistance and social borrowing. To be brief, I believe that if there are problems, we contact the OCASC and help those entitled to them touch what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u83	I would like to thank the minister for his answer. Indeed, I think our military is doing a great job. I would also like to say, unlike my colleague Top, that I am also very proud to see the protection work they do in Belgium in public places. I consider that to reassure people. I hope that this will not happen, but if anything happens, they will be covered by the aid you have presented to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u84	Madam President, Minister, on 22 and 23 June last, meetings and exchanges took place between the socio-economic world, the defence sector and the government. The new security challenges and the partnership between Defence and the business world were discussed. The Defence website indicated the reasons why it was important to participate in the event: exclusive information to adapt product and service security policies, the opportunity to establish new and costly professional contacts, and the opportunity for industrialists and service providers to directly valorise the company among key managers at Defense. The lobby event was sponsored by United Technologies and Honeywell, two major players in the industry, with anything but a flawless reputation. In 2012, United Technologies still violated the arms embargo against China through the sale of military technology, enabling the country to produce attack helicopters for the first time. Honeywell is an important supplier of Israel. The company maintains the Israeli F-15 and F-16 fighter planes, which are regularly deployed in the bombing of the Gaza Strip. Several gun lobbyists spoke at the lobby event. Among other things, Renaud Bellais of Airbus, the manufacturer of the Eurofighter Typhoon, sat in the opening panel and spoke about "New Partnerships Defence Business World: Opportunities for Employment and Economy." Firstly, do you believe that such lobbying event can be problematic for our government's sustainability policy? Secondly, what conclusions were drawn from the event? Could this committee possibly obtain or discuss the conclusions reports? Thirdly, for what reason did the event invite one of the manufacturers of candidate substitutes for our F-16 chassis? All four candidates were invited? Was this contacted in a lobby register? Finally, for what reason did the DOD choose to cooperate with United Technologies and Honeywell, despite their questionable reputation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u85	Madam President, Mr Top, perhaps I should have entered this in the transparency register. However, I can reassure you, although you are apparently not satisfied that there may have been a company that is not your favourite. All madness on a stick, the event you mentioned was an organization of the Royal Circle Mars & Mercurius vzw, a non-profit association that is not under my custody. I am therefore in no way responsible for the selected sponsoring or for the companies present. Having said that, the Koninklijke Kring Mars & Mercury is of course close to Defence and has quite a few former staff members and reserveists among its members. They organized the event Defence and industry together to the future in the context of their interpretation of what is called the search for a triple helix model. In that story, I can imagine that external organisations, not Defence itself, want to get a broad view and offer their members a broad view of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u86	Mr Minister, for the record, I have no preference for any of the four. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u87	I note that you are always so concerned that something would go wrong with the American offer. You are now making a comment about the fact that someone who is linked to Typhoon was present at a particular event, not organized by us. One and one is two, I'm just adding it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u88	This conclusion is on your behalf, Minister. You know our position very well. We have no preference for any of the four or five, for the sake of clarity. It is, however, a concern which I would like to express in my question. You refer to the fact that it is a non-profit association which is not within your competence, and I can follow you in that. However, there will probably have been a lot of soldiers who are still in service, including senior soldiers. The presence alone can sometimes give rise to false insinuations, as you do with me when I ask questions in committee. Insinuations can also be made about such an event. It is important to maintain a clear distinction between official events of Defence and ancillary organisations for which Defence is responsible, and those for which there is no such responsibility. If there are military such lobby events, allow me to use this word, where they meet the people of industry and other organisations, they must be made clear how to deal with it. In that case, the lobby register or the transparency register should also show that those contacts have been there. I made the point that only one of the manufacturers was present. I read that on their website. You are not responsible for that and I will not ask you any further questions about it, even if it remains a concern for me...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u89	I understand your concern, Mr Top, but we must also have the courage to think with a sound sense of farming. We encourage everyone to see that Defence is part of society and has the widest possible view of industrial partners. It seems rather obvious to me that people from Defence participate in network events on which, for industrial participation, any candidate is present under the F-16 replacement programme, or the land component, or the Navy or other investments that are to take place. With industrial participation I think of triple helix, collaboration of companies, government/user and research institutions. Let me give you another example. At the end of August, a very good air show will take place in Leopoldsburg, Sanicole. There will also be two events in which industry is present and sponsored by industry. Sanicole is also a non-profit association that has nothing directly to do with the Defense Department. The industry will be there and there will be a lot of soldiers there, which I think is quite obvious. I would like to address your concerns, in particular, because I can confirm that the people who participate in events like this on behalf of the Defense Department comply with a very clear deontological code and know very well what they are doing. In my view, therefore, there is little to fear from this point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u90	Then we share the same concern, for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u91	But it's regulated, it's autoregulated. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u92	We have the same concern, but my only point is that the two sponsors are companies with a rather questionable reputation. That could be dangerous. I'm just turning it in.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u93	Mr Top, it is normal for defence-related industries to sponsor such events. If you as mayor want to sponsor Harelbeke as a football team, it will be difficult to get it done by a baker who only supplies bread in Limburg. You will also look for sponsors for such matters in your area. I can understand that an association like the Royal Circle Mars & Mercury is trying to call on sponsors to organise such events, which is its objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u94	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delannois' 19690 was postponed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Fernandez Fernandez' 19730 and 19754 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u95	Minister, following the frequent American criticism of the imbalance in NATO in the field of defence efforts, the European Commission has now also announced an initiative in the field of defence. It is envisaged to set up a Defence Fund that could invest up to EUR 5.5 billion annually in European defence needs. Defence is not a competence of the Commission and there is no expertise in this area. Minister, what is your view on this Commission initiative? What's the government's attitude? How will the Commission determine what defence needs are and where best investment is made? How's this defense fund gonna get shut down? Will Belgium have to contribute? How much? Will all EU Member States participate in that fund? Do we already know who will or will not participate? How will this Defence Fund contribute to better European defence capabilities? Is there a distribution key among the Member States for the grants that this fund will grant?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u96	EU Member States will determine intergovernmentally the defence needs that can be supported by the Commission. The intention is that this process will be accompanied by the European Defence Agency (EDA). The focus is on addressing the capacity gaps in areas where the EU is unable to act autonomously or insufficiently at present. The European Defence Fund is divided into two parts. The first part supports research in the defence domain. These support projects will be financed entirely from the European Union budget. For all these projects, the Commission together provides for an annual amount of EUR 500 million from 2021. The second part supports the development phase of capacity-building projects, with only part of the development costs being borne by the European Union budget. The Commission shall make available an annual amount of EUR 1 billion to finance all these projects from 2021 onwards. The remaining share of development costs and full series production of equipment will have to be financed by the Member States participating voluntarily in these capacity projects. There is therefore no obligation for Member States to remain sidelined. Conversely, it is intended that a country can only benefit from the fund if it also contributes to it. These contributions are estimated at EUR 4 billion per year. A total annual budget of 5 billion is therefore envisaged for the whole. The identification process of projects which may be subsidised by the Fund has not yet begun. I cannot therefore draw any conclusions on this. The projects will be realised by industrial consortia which will be selected through a public and competitive process at European level. The most attractive thing for the Member States is that, despite the Commission's substantial financial contribution, they will still own 100% of the capacity acquired. We will participate actively in the negotiations in the next three months. These negotiations will have to result in the final definition of the arrangements and the criteria. You also know, of course, that we continue to participate in bilateral and multilateral initiatives, as we have done in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u97	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It sounds pretty positive and fairly optimistic. We can only hope that the Defence Fund will help to counter the fragmented defence landscape in Europe. We all know the stories of the 17 different armoured vehicles and the 12 different warships, built...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u98	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic703x.u99	Indeed, there are 27 versions of the NH90. They are all developed and built in Europe, to do the same work. That is one of Europe's weaknesses in the military field. We can only hope that the Defence Fund will not become a subsidy mechanism that maintains or exacerbates the situation. A mechanism such as agricultural subsidies is not what is needed for European defence. That's obvious.
