ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u1	If I may, Madam Secretary of State, in the absence of Mr. Van Hecke, who was to ask the first question, I will ask you my question on item 2 of the agenda from this seat, since there are not many of us. Mr. Van Hecke isn't here, but he can still arrive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, the two main Communities of the country have adopted decrees on the protection of property of particular importance with regard to cultural heritage. These are the Decree of the Flemish Community of 24 January 2003 on the protection of movable cultural heritage of exceptional interest, the topstukken or master pieces, and the Decree of the French Community of 11 July 2002 on movable cultural property and intangible heritage. The date is undoubtedly a pure coincidence. Could you please indicate whether any of the documents or collections of documents under your control have been the subject of an application of one of the two decrees I have just cited? If so, could you give me a list of the documents concerned, indicating their current location and the administration or establishment on which they depend? Finally, could you clarify to me the effects of the application of these two decrees on the heritage which would be the responsibility of your administration, and on the documents concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u3	Mr. Chair, the impact of the two Orders in Council on federal scientific institutions is now very limited. Only the Royal Museums of the Fine Arts of Belgium have works subject to application of the Flemish Government's decree of 24 January 2003. These are two parts of the polyptych of The Mystical Lamb. 1. Jan Van Eyck, upper left shutter of the altarpiece The Mystical Lamb: Avers Adam, reverse part of The chamber of the Annunciation and the Eritrean Sibyll (oil on oak, 204 on 38 centimetres - inventory 1460). 2. Jan Van Eyck, upper right pane of the altarpiece The Mystical Lamb: Avers Eve, reverse part of The chamber of the Annunciation and the sybil of Cumes (oil on oak, 204 on 38 centimetres - inventory 1460). The two works are in storage at Saint-Bavon Cathedral in Ghent and therefore depend on the cathedral council. The inclusion of the two panels in the list of major works is an acknowledgement of the exceptional value of these elements. Therefore, neither of these works can be moved or manipulated without the permission of the Flemish government. In any case, it seems to me deontologically unthinkable that the federal state can unilaterally separate these two panels from the rest of the Lamb of God. In addition, the Flemish Government has been heavily involved in the costs of restoration and conservation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers, which I take note of. With regard to the limited impact of these two decrees, I would point out that at no time did I wish or suggest unilateral intervention by the federal state. That wasn't the meaning of my question. I wanted to see if there were any contentious elements in relation to the location of these works. I take note of your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u5	Question No 18178 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, this is not new, federal scientific institutions (FSIs) have many challenges to face in the years to come. Among these, it is essential to review the recruitment procedure, since they are no longer at all adapted to the specific needs of the FSEs and prevent them from fully engaging in interesting scientific projects. It is therefore more than necessary to put in place an effective personnel policy. Indeed, the fact that each ESF has its own staff is no longer sustainable and time is running out. This is obviously extremely important! What are the solutions to modify or derogate from recruitment procedures and ensure that projects are carried out? Do you have a schedule for this file? If so, can you communicate it to me? In your policy guidance note, you indicate that the Directors General of the FSEs have put forward several avenues and interesting elements. Is this particularly relevant to the recruitment procedure and, if so, have you been able to dialogue with them and find solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u7	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Cassart, the Federal Scientific Institutions (FSIs) often have specific needs for the recruitment of qualified personnel. This is the result of their activities, the specific tasks assigned to them and the implementation of the scientific projects entrusted to them. This specificity is recognised through, among other things, their derogatory status as an ESF. Their specific needs can be reduced to two black spots. On the one hand, FSEs often look for very specific profiles to fill in. I am thinking, for example, of the current job vacancy at the Royal Observatory, in solar physics and knowledge of optical design. On the other hand, it is expected that the FSEs will be able to start the research project assigned to them quickly. This means that they must also be able to recruit the necessary personnel quickly. In practice, FSBs note that existing recruitment channels and procedures do not always allow for the proper and timely performance of a number of critical functions. This issue was also communicated to me by the various Directors General at meetings I have already had with them. At my request, the P&O staff of the Science Policy PPS, in collaboration with the FSEs, is working on a documented analysis. This analysis is expected to be completed by the end of this parliamentary year. On this basis, I will, in consultation with my colleague, the Minister responsible for the Public Service, the managing director of the Selor, draw up a number of proposals for a solution. I would not already wish to prejudge the results of the analysis or possible solutions. It seems to me more important that this exercise can be carried out in depth and lead to concrete solutions. I would also like to add that the processes of recruiting staff will already be considerably simplified by integrating staff envelopes into the FSE endowments. From 1 January 2018, it will be done. There will be only one workflow for all contractual commitments. The issue of staff is one of the points raised by the Directors-General. These points will be reported in the current analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u8	Indeed, we are well aware of the need for a specific status for the ESF. The various meetings with the Directors-General seem indispensable to me and this has been done. You are waiting for a detailed analysis by the end of the year. That's good, but since patience is not one of my virtues, at some point this case must be completed. I am aware that there must be consultation between you and the Minister for the Civil Service, because legislation governs the functioning of the Selor. Research is a specific area in which we need to invest, because a euro invested brings a lot to the economy and the state. I'll come back to you in early February. It is necessary to succeed. I believe you of good will and I think you have the same wish as I do. The results of this study are yet to be achieved, but we must not fall into the exclusive administrative category. Thank you for taking this case with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u9	Questions No 18633, No 19625, No 20780 and No 20782 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux and No 18569 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u10	Madam Secretary of State Albert Einstein said, as part of a scientific approach, that "The important thing is not to stop asking questions." You will notice that I apply this quote to the letter! The ESA Ministerial Council in Lucerne in December 2016 covered the period 2017-2021. In this regard, it has been decided that Belgium (like the other Member States) will pay a mandatory contribution to the basic activities of ESA and its scientific programme in the amount of GNP, i.e. 2.74 %. ESA's annual resources for the period 2017-2021 amount to €232 million for core activities and €508 million for the scientific programme. For Belgium, the overall increase is EUR 2.68 million. Madam Secretary of State, can you give me the distribution of the contribution of 2.74 % of GNP? Does the federal state alone support this contribution? Are the federated entities involved? If so, how high? Can you give me the breakdown of the overall increase for Belgium? Will the federated entities be associated? What allocations will this amount be used for? Can you tell me if this budget comes from core activities and/or the science program?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, our country has played an important role in the development and operation of the European Space Agency from the outset. In December 2016, the Council was called back to the ERA for the 22 participating countries to agree on the budgetary targets. The federal government is competent in the context of that international cooperation. Following the Council of 16 December 2016, a number of recommendations were made by the Flemish Council for Science and Innovation on the voluntary projects in which Flanders, and by extension Belgium, should preferably participate. These projects were chosen on the basis of the economic activities in which Flanders excels within the agency. For example, the VRWI pointed out the GSTP and ARTES programmes, given the importance of these telecom projects for Flanders. The Council finally decided that Belgium should contribute 2,74 % of GDP to the Agency. How will the Länder be involved in the preparation of the ERA Council? Were the recommendations of the Flemish Science and Innovation Council taken into account? Which voluntary ERA projects can Belgium contribute to in the future? Is the financial contribution proportionate to the projects in which Belgium can participate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u12	We listen with great attention to your reply, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, in Lucerne, the ESA Member States undertook to allocate EUR 3.813 billion for all compulsory activities for the period 2017-2021. Those mandatory activities are the core activities and the scientific programme. Under the scheme in force, all Member States contribute to that amount in proportion to their gross national product. This means that Belgium currently has to contribute 2.74% of the total, which amounts to EUR 104.5 million. This amount will be added to the part of our contribution in the optional programmes. The only obligation for those wishing to participate in those optional programmes is a minimum total contribution threshold of one quarter of our contribution to ESA. Belgium was more or less involved in all optional ESA projects of the Ministerial Council held in Lucerne in 2016. As a reminder, all our commitments in Lucerne are in a note dated 2 February 2017, of which the Council of Ministers took note on 10 February 2017. The next meeting for new decisions and contributions is scheduled for 2019. The federal government only takes these contributions into account because space policy in relation to ESA is exclusively a federal jurisdiction. The federated entities are therefore not involved at this level, but they were obviously consulted in the preparation of the ministerial conference in Lucerne. Representatives of Belgian space actors are always consulted in advance, as is the Flemish Council for Science and Innovation. Both the Belgian actors in the field of space and the Flemish Council for Science and Innovation are consulted. In preparation for the 2019 Ministerial Council, I aim for maximum transparency. For this reason, I plan to set up an advisory council, composed of academics and scientists, executives of the aerospace industry and users of space infrastructure and applications, in order to be able to accompany this process. The increase for ESA's mandatory activities for the period 2017-2021 is EUR 113 million, including EUR 97 million for internal costs and for the operation of the ExoMars mission. There is therefore no direct return for the participating countries to this programme. The remaining 16 million euros will be allocated to the scientific programme with a slightly higher Belgian return in this area in proportion to our contribution. In the end, there is no increase in key actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, I have heard the information and figures you have given us. I will analyze them and return to you if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Although the Länder are not involved, it is a good thing that they have been consulted. For maximum transparency, it is indeed good that you will set up an Advisory Council. We will look at the figures you have given in the report and, if necessary, come back to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, your bill to introduce a program of sustainable research cooperation between federal scientific institutions and universities has been unanimously passed - and I congratulate you on that. However, there is still work to be done, as another equally important bill has to reach the benches of Parliament, namely the reform of the Federal Scientific Establishments (FSEs). The latter, which you have announced, will strengthen and energize federal science policy by empowering and empowering FSEs. Your predecessor had met with the directors of the FSEs to discuss the various avenues to be considered. Relationships were tense and communication difficult – and I weigh my words I hope the situation has normalized since you arrived. I think that's the case and you've re-established the dialogue. In any case, I would like to take stock with you of this reform. Madam Secretary of State, have you ever met with all the directors of the federal scientific institutions? If so, what has emerged from these meetings? If not, would it not be appropriate to organize a meeting with them? Do you have a timetable for the reform of the ESF? Can you communicate it to me? When can we hope to analyse it on the benches of parliament? Do you already have an idea of the possible solutions for FSEs? If so, what are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, some federal scientific institutions are currently deprived of a Director General. For example, the Royal Meteorological Institute has had an ad interim director since 2010, the date of retirement of the last Director General to have been appointed. So it's been seven years! If arrangements are not made before the end of the legislature, the vacancy will be a decade. It would still be a little long... Over the past seven years, federal scientific institutions reform projects have been sketched but not completed. The absence of an appointed Director General certainly provides a plausible explanation for this problem, as well as the savings that have been imposed on them. Yet the need to reform the institutional framework is acute. Unfortunately, these organizations are often related to administrations. Their empowerment has, as you have indicated, been included in the government agenda of this legislature. The disappearance of Belspo, the administration on which the ESF depend, makes this need for appointments and reforms more urgent than ever. You have announced that you want to reform the Federal Science Establishments with the Directors General. It may be necessary to begin by appointing one in each federal scientific institution. To my knowledge, of the ten federal scientific institutions, half must now operate without a Director General appointed as such for several years. Tell me if I'm wrong. This situation is obviously detrimental to the operational functioning of the institution in the short term and to its long-term strategic development. Where directors-general are lacking, heads of departments are not appointed either. It is the whole pyramid that is incomplete, which makes the operation very random and uncomfortable. As far as the heads of departments are concerned, it seems that the situation depends on your decision. I do not know if the additional costs are included in the decision, but they may have to be modest. Indeed, people in-house can probably ensure these "promotions". In principle, these posts were provided for in the budgets and staff plans. Second, would it not be desirable to select a Director General by federal scientific institution, whose first mission would be to advise you in the development of the institutional framework change for the FSS he is leading?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, thank you for your question. As you know, I am working on the implementation of the reform of the federal scientific institutions, as reflected in the government agreement. The governance management structure will be examined as part of this reform, as will the internal functioning of the ESFs. I shall submit a proposal to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible, again during this term of office. I have met on several occasions during the previous period with the various Directors-General, continuing the reform by involving them structurally. I will further intensify this type of consultation. I will provide a more precise answer in my policy note 2018. It is a fact that some federal scientific institutions have long been led by a Director General appointed ad interim. Of the 10 federal scientific institutions, 5 are headed by an ad interim Director General appointed by Ministerial Order to act as the Director General of the institution. It follows from this designation that the person concerned must exercise the function with all his or her related prerogatives and responsibilities. In all cases, acting directors have been appointed carefully, taking into account the requirements of the function and on the basis of the necessary skills, experience, knowledge and expertise available to them. The appointment of an acting Director, an action explicitly provided for by the legislator, ensures that the institution will be properly and appropriately directed and managed, both operationally and strategically. Contrary to what you seem to say, this does not endanger the operational leadership of institutions. On the other hand, I recognize that such a measure, even in the case of good management and good administration, should not constitute a permanent situation. I therefore recognise the need for a structural solution as indicated in the planned reform. The management and good governance structure and the internal functioning of these federal scientific institutions must also be taken into account. It seems to me logical that these two aspects should be incorporated into each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. Wait and see! This file is going to evolve again. I'll come back to you in good time, but I'll let you work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. You confirm that of the ten, five exercise this function on an ad interim basis, i.e. half. I understand that they have all the prerogatives and that they can fully exercise their function, but it is not the same. The method of recruitment is different. Someone can perform an ad interim function for six months, but if these six months become six years, this is a problem. I therefore agree with you that this should not be a solution. A permanent solution, a structural response, would be needed if these scientific institutions were to have a director who was open-minded, who felt fully invested. In some cases, being ad interim may actually be a problem. I will read your policy brief carefully. You're telling us things are going to change. I assume that you will give a timetable for the regularization of all these situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u21	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, this is the first time I have asked you a question in your capacity as Secretary of State for Scientific Policy. On Wednesday, May 31, the United States made the event announcing the upcoming launch of a NASA probe that will plunge into the sun's atmosphere. This will be a great first: never has a man-made device so close to our star and therefore never been subjected to such temperatures and radiations. We already know that the sun, 109 times larger than our planet, is made up of hydrogen and helium, and that life on Earth depends essentially on it. But many questions remain, and this mission will be historic. The probe will be equipped with a thermal protection made of thick carbon composite of more than 11 centimetres, even if, where it will go, it should be confronted with a temperature of "only" 1,400 degrees. Madam Secretary of State, is Belgium participating in this NASA mission? If so, in what form? Which universities in the country would be affected by this scientific experience? What would be the expected impact of our country's participation in this scientific experiment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u22	Mr.President, Mr.Flahaux, the question concerns the Parker Solar Probe mission to be launched by NASA in August 2018. Indeed, Belgium participates in it. In particular, it is involved in the development of one of the four scientific instruments that will be on board the satellite. It is Whisper who will have to observe the crown and the solar wind. Belgium contributes at two levels. First, the Liège Space Centre will participate in the design and construction of Whisper. More specifically, the aim will be to optimize and verify optical instruments, including the development of components to reduce parasitic light. This is extremely important because this instrument must analyse the detailed structure of the solar crown and wind, in the presence of a very strong solar irradiation. The Royal Observatory of Belgium (KSB-ORB), which is co-investigator of the Whisper instrument, provides scientific support for the mission. KSB-ORB works with the leading American investigator to determine the scientific parameters and how to observe them. The KSB-ORB will also analyze the data after launch. The CSL is part of the University of Liège. The KSB-ORB is responsible for scientific management in our country. It is planned that other research groups in our country will carry out research on the data of this mission, such as the Belgian Institute for Space and the Astrophysics Plasma Centre of the KU Leuven. The CSL's contribution to this mission is part of its long policy of specialization in high-tech optical instrumentation for space. By participating in this prestigious NASA mission, the CSL strengthens its position in the world. Belgium is among the world leaders in the field of the study of the Sun and its interaction with the Earth. This concerns both the study of phenomena on the surface of the Sun, their origin and evolution, and the impact of solar eruptions on the Earth. Thanks to the contribution to the development of the Whisper instrument, our scientists will have privileged access to the data of this satellite to be able to carry out high-level research that will lead to a better understanding of our star and its impact on the Earth.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. If this mission succeeds, you may be called the Queen Sun, by analogy with the Sun King. What grows up makes us stronger: we join international teams – I would have preferred them to be only European – to study a star like the Sun! Union is strength!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u24	Question No 19625 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u25	Mr President, the Secretary of State, iPot, lndustrial Potato monitoring, i.e. the monitoring of industrial potatoes for the Belgian sector, is a three-year pilot project. It started on June 1, 2014 and is funded by a federal science policy research program, BELSPO. In concrete terms, until December 2015, this was the development of the geo-location information platform. Until 2016, it was the demonstration and optimisation of the project with the partial monitoring and improvement of observation techniques and models. The finalisation and extension of the project were planned for spring 2017 with, in the long run, an availability for all stakeholders in the sector. At a time when Belgium has become the world's largest exporter of frozen potato products, the potato and research sectors have joined forces to create the Internet-based geoinformatics platform, iPot, which aims to collect all data on potato cultivation. The objective is better monitoring of crops for better estimation of yield per plot, both in terms of volume and quality. Madam Secretary of State, is the pilot project complete? If so, what conclusions can you draw? If not, when will it be completed? What is BELSPO's contribution to this project? Has the collaboration between the researchers from Flanders and Wallonia (VITO, CRA-W and ULg) been optimal? We are talking about scientific research, but the link can be made with the agricultural sector. Potato cultivation, optimisation and research, and the fact that we are exporters of frozen potato products is also important for the agricultural sector, because it is also diversification. I really want to take stock with you of this beautiful project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u26	The main objective of the iPot (Industrial Potato monitoring for the Belgian potato sector) project was the development of geo-information products for industry and research centres dealing with potato cultivation. In this context, an online information exchange platform, powered by field data and earth observation data, has been developed. It can now be accessed via the watchitgrow.be link. At the end of August this year, 3,320 Belgian users were already registered on this platform, representing 10% of the cultivated areas reserved for potatoes in Belgium. Registration is free and a business model is being developed to ensure the sustainability of the platform over time. The Science Policy PPS contributed to this project in two ways. Firstly, by making staff available; secondly, by fully financing the scientific partners of the iPot project to the tune of €304,739. This project was set up within the framework of the stereo programme by scientists from different institutions in the country working for a national end-user, Belgapom, the professional association defending the interests of potato traders. The consultation was very fruitful between the partners of CRA-W, VITO and ULg on the one hand, and Belgapom on the other, the project's initiator and technology transfer applicant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u27	I thank the Minister for taking stock of this pilot project. I think he's not the only one, but he's interesting. Madam Minister, you have answered all the questions I asked you and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u28	Question No. 19938 by Mr Flahaux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u29	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the von Karman Institute, which brings together 15 participating countries and to which Belgium provides most of the means of operation, is experiencing a dramatic financial situation. We talked about it in your policy statement. It has a debt of 8 million euros. This situation has several causes, including errors made by the previous management, shortcomings in the follow-up of invoices and the bankruptcy of a large customer. This Institute, which conducts research in the field of fluid dynamics and aerodynamics and has fifty PhD students, is threatened with survival. In fact, in your policy note, you write that you asked your services to examine whether the federal authority, in addition to the other partners, should intervene, and how, in order at least, the scientific value of this Institute would not disappear. During the discussions, you announced that your firm, in collaboration with others, was working on a rescue plan, in which a serious vision of governance and corporate management would be an essential element. Madam Secretary of State, have there been any concrete progress on this issue? If so, what are they? In the absence of concrete progress, what solutions do you envisage in the short and medium term? Do you have a schedule for this delicate case? Can you communicate it to me? Do you have any contact with your counterparts in the French and Flemish Communities? What does it show?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u30	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, first of all I would like to congratulate you on your pregnancy. It's an important part of life. I wish you sweet and light. The von Karman Institute conducts research in the field of fluid dynamics and aerodynamics. It also offers a home for fifty PhD students. The von Karman Institute is not a federal institution but an AISBL with 15 participating countries, to which Belgium provides most of the means of operation through the Federal Science Policy. When you arrived, you found a dramatic situation with a debt of 8 million euros. There are several reasons for this, including errors made by the previous management, shortcomings in the follow-up of invoices, the failure to pay 600,000 euros from a large Swiss customer who went bankrupt and the reduction of the federal subsidy from 1.4 million euros to 800,000 euros. Your firm has worked with others to develop a rescue plan in which a serious vision of governance and corporate management should be an essential element. The situation and the future of the von Karman Institute are of particular concern to us as the Federal State is partly responsible for its financial difficulties. Madam Secretary of State, what kind of intervention are you considering to re-float the Institute? Can you tell us the current status of your rescue plan? Will you refinance the von Karman Institute? Will you restore the government's subsidy to its historical levels? How do you intend to bring in new capital? Through new partners? Will you involve the Regions? Will you require synergies or collaborations with other organizations? Will you require incorporation at a university or research centre? As far as I am concerned, I would stress the importance of preserving the autonomy of the von Karman Institute.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u31	Mr de Lamotte, thank you for the congratulations you have extended to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, I associate myself with this. I saw him last week in session, but I forgot about him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u33	Your questions show great concern about the future of the von Karman Institute, and I share it. As soon as I took office, I mentioned in my policy statement that this problem needed to be clarified. Indeed, I have to say that this Institute suffers from a lack of effective management and is therefore facing serious financial difficulties. I have been able to make an emergency loan of EUR 5 million in order to have enough time to improve its situation structurally. The federal subsidy has been increased. By the end of 2014, a 20% savings had been achieved on this grant. On that occasion, a calculation error was made in the total amount, including NATO's mandatory contribution. I had this error corrected. The grant to the von Karman Institute increased by €283,000. This gives him a little financial margin. The first initiative was to renew the Board of Directors. From now on, it is composed of a limited number of members. Thus, a new dynamic was instilled in him. The new Board of Directors monitors liquidity developments month after month. Priority was given to the clearance of old debts. For example, there was a large backlog in payments to the National Social Security Office. For this reason, the imposition of fines has aggravated the total debt. Various projects that were launched previously have proved to be in deficit. It has, of course, resulted in a significant impact on the financial health of the von Karman Institute. In order to remedy this mismanagement, I have given instructions for the development of a good governance charter, which will clearly include the allocation of responsibilities. In addition, the Institute will seek a new CEO. The vacancy announcement was issued very recently. The objective is that the entry into office will take place by the end of the year. Second, there is also an internal reorganization that will provide the Institute with a sound financial base. It must also develop cost-effective research projects. In this context, one of my objectives is to strengthen the organization's cooperation with other research institutions, both high schools and universities. However, it is premature to provide you with information on this matter. First and foremost, the Good Governance Charter must be approved by the Board of Directors. Then, the new or, better still, the new CEO will mark the von Karman 2.0 Institute with its imprint. I am confident that all these measures will attract potential partners and persuade them to enter into a cooperation agreement with the Institute. Discussions on this subject will begin as soon as the new CEO takes office. Finally, I would like to point out that there is currently no question of integrating this Institute into a university. Moreover, it is up to him – and to him alone – to submit this trail to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. I realize that this is a difficult case, in which your first objective is to find solutions. You are listening to the von Karman Institute, but you are proactive, in the sense that you want solutions to be found. I think we still have to give some time. We're going in the right direction. I will come back to you at the beginning of next year to see how the file is evolving.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u35	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I have taken note of the information you bring to the attention of the committee and Parliament. I think we will come back to the matter. I wish I had insisted on one point. You talk about collaboration and partnership with higher education, but without integration into a university. This means that development autonomy is guaranteed at the Institute, which will require at least a balanced financial plan. It's an option. We will examine it over time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u36	Madam Secretary of State, to assess the evolution of climate change and its impact on our environment and biodiversity, quality research is an absolute necessity. Hasselt University has a unique facility for research on the environment, climate change and biodiversity, the so-called Ecotron in Maasmechelen. With an area of 1 000 square metres, consisting of 12 ecosystem chambers, it is an excellent infrastructure for that type of research. The Flemish government financed the research infrastructure, but also the federal government has a role to play in these research themes. Madam Secretary of State, what else can the federal government do to support that type of investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u37	Thank you, Mr Janssen, for your brief and concise question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u38	Madam Secretary of State, on 30 June, after months of turmoil, the case concerning the polar station landed smoothly with an agreement between the Belgian State and the IPF concerning the Pax Antarctica. On the same day, in the press, you stressed the importance of climate research, which is precisely an essential area of research in Antarctica. In particular, you said: "Climate change also affects Belgium and research in this sector is therefore important for the country." Madam Secretary of State, of course I can only agree with your analysis. Could you clarify what you're saying? What are your next projects in this area? How do you envisage working with the climate minister and her administration? During the exchange of views in the Committee on the Economy on 18 July, you announced that you would like to meet with the Minister to discuss this point. Can you tell me more?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u39	Colleagues, climate change is a major concern that requires the mobilization of all. I'm perfectly aware of that. Continuing research efforts in this area is imperative. These efforts require strengthened and coordinated actions at all levels of government (national, pan-European and international). This is why, in collaboration and consultation with its federal and regional partners, the Federal Science Policy invests in the development of scientific infrastructure as well as in coordinated research programs that enable the scientific community to further develop and fully exploit its rich expertise in many climate-related research areas. The Ecotron of Maasmechelen is one of ICOS' main modules, a European infrastructure for measuring greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, terrestrial ecosystems and oceans. ICOS can provide accurate data for climate development and impact research at any time and as appropriate. The financial support of Belgium from ICOS is the result of an interfederal cooperation. My services pay for the access ticket to the infrastructure. Two federal scientific institutions, the BIRA-IASB and the RBIN, host components of the infrastructure for atmospheric and ocean measurements. The Walloon and Flemish regions strongly support the construction of the ecosystemic components. The government will set out the research priorities for the next phase of the BRAIN programme. My colleague, responsible for Energy and Climate, will have to make her voice heard when the research priorities in support of environmental challenges are raised worldwide. Climate research involves five FWIs: the RMI, the BIRA-IASB, the ROB, the KMMA and the KBIN and several university teams from all over the country. The CORDEX.be project, financed by my services, aims to develop small-scale climate models and scenario scenarios in the framework of research in the field of climate services. In particular, it concerns the development of tools and information that are useful for decision-makers in all sectors involved in climate change, so that appropriate decisions can be taken in the context of the transition to a low carbon and climate-resistant society. In this context, I think it is important to point out that part of the budget of the BRAIN programme is intended for research activities of Belgian teams within a pan-European and international framework. This can be done thanks to Belgium's involvement in the Joint Programming Initiatives for the climate in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u40	Madam Secretary of State, it is good to hear that the Länder have already taken responsibility. It is indeed not only your competence but also that of other ministers. I am pleased to hear that money is being released and that you are doing what you can with the powers you have.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u41	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your frank answer. This decision is not just up to you. There is collaboration with federated entities and a shared responsibility. But, as you said, climate change is a priority and scientific research in this area is paramount. I therefore think that you will continue to deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u42	Question No 20763 by Mr Vercamer is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u43	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, after months of turmoil, the case concerning the polar station lands smoothly with an agreement between the Belgian State and the IPF concerning the Pax Antarctica. I congratulate you. This agreement will provide the necessary serenity for scientists to work properly. Have the guarantees been enshrined for this purpose in the agreement? I am not just talking about the fact that there is scientific advice in the future AISBL, but, more specifically, in the choice of scientific programmes to be carried out. In other words, who now decides and who will decide in the future? This agreement provides for a five-year concession, renewable for three years, with the IPF. Can you tell me if an evaluation of the collaboration after each campaign is planned? Are you going to ask scientists every year if they are satisfied with this collaboration and what they would like to improve? What if the collaboration is not satisfied? However, when I presented this agreement to the Committee on the Economy on 18 July, I asked you about a possible second Belgian polar station that is about to come into being. Indeed, this information relayed by the press refers to a project to build a new base. Can you give me more details about this possible project? Are you aware of this? Would this second polar station replace the existing one or complement it? What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u44	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, first of all, I thank you for your answer to my written question, which came to me a few days ago on the same subject. I come back with further questions on this issue, relating to certain aspects of the agreement. As a reminder, on 27 June 2017, you announced an agreement with the Polar Foundation on the management of the Princess Elisabeth Polar Station, entitled Pax Antarctica. You had responded to my numerous inquiries and my colleague Dallemagne's since February 2016. These inquiries were aimed at negotiating with the Polar Foundation. This agreement proves that the negotiation was the right path and we can only welcome and welcome this agreement. In the answer to my written question, you wrote "to insist that these commitments were not taken in a climate of suspicion or coercion. Here too the adage is true that good agreements make good friends." I sincerely hope that this adage will be verified. Unfortunately, this recipe has not worked in the past due to a mountain of problems to be solved. So I have four additional questions to ask you. Madam Secretary of State, the assessment is based on a number of fixed criteria, as set out in the 2018-2023 agreement. What is the exhaustive list of the criteria mentioned? Secondly, what is the contradictory aspect of annual evaluation reports? Third question – first of all, I come back to the ISBL fully empowered to do so – we need to check whether the management is properly carried out by the IPF operator. In the proposed structure, this control is also made possible by the necessary mechanisms put in place. What is the exhaustive list of mechanisms mentioned? And last question, starting from the 2018-2019 season, the federal grant will only cover support for research projects within a specific area. What is the specific perimeter in question? Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u45	Mr. President, thank you. I do not have a translation of my answer, can I continue in Dutch? [[Sentiment]] Thank you very much! The International Polar Foundation (IPF) has made effective plans for a second polar station. These plans are primarily a proof of concept. It's about a completely private project of IPF. I would remind you that as a private foundation, IPF is allowed to work with partners other than the federal government at any time. Of course, IPF will always have to have the necessary permits, either from Belgium or from another Antarctic Convention State. Within the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, clear rules have been agreed. The draft agreement between the Pool Institute and the IPF allows both parties to use each other's material free of charge in the context of a social purpose, in so far as it relates to the Belgian Antarctic Base. I would therefore like to make it clear that there must be a link with the Belgian South Pole base. Of course, such a private initiative is not intended to be financed by the resources invested by the federal government in the operation of the Princess Elisabeth base. Together with my fellow Minister responsible for the Environment, I will ensure that these conditions, namely having the necessary permits and proper use of the material of the Princess Elisabeth base, are respected. At present, the evaluation of scientific projects is taking place in two stages. Initially, the Science Policy PPS provides a scientific and substantive evaluation of the Belgian research projects through an international peer review. The selected projects are then financed by the federal science policy. IPF can also make projects. All proposals are submitted to the Strategic Council of the Pool Secretariat which makes a choice, taking into account their logistical and budgetary feasibility. A similar procedure will remain in place in the future. The logistical evaluation will be carried out by the Board of Directors of the Pool Institute. On this board, the operator IPF will only be represented by an advisory vote. The supporting scientific advisory committee will be represented in the same way. This should allow for an independent and well-founded assessment. This will also be specified in the management agreement between the federal government and the polar institute. This new procedure also clearly separates the roles of the polar institute, which gives the order, and of IPF, which executes the assignments. This has already eliminated the main issue of potential conflict of interest. In addition, the draft agreement also provides for a number of other control mechanisms. These mechanisms largely concern the financial sector. For example, monthly financial reporting, external audit of accounts and accounting by a company auditor, annual general reporting, online monitoring of certain data, etc. are foreseen. Currently, the Pool Secretariat receives a donation. It transfers most of this, the campaign budget, to IPF on the basis of invoices. As you know, due to the particular nature of the current cooperation agreement between IPF and the Belgian State, it is particularly difficult to properly qualify this last transfer. However, this problem is remedied in the new structure. It is normal for the operator to respect the public procurement procedure for purchases carried out under his or her contract. Of some parts, in particular the advanced technology of the South Pole Base, it is not evident to acquire this through a public contract. On the other hand, several suppliers are available for some of the items of clothing, boots, spare parts, vehicles, instruments and other equipment. The essence of the whole South Pole story is that the basis exists in the grace of the scientific research that is being carried out. I want the Belgian scientists to have the opportunity to conduct high-quality research on our basis. They should be able to carry out that research in the best possible conditions and therefore the new agreement also provides for an annual satisfaction measurement of the scientists concerned. The polar institute will also organise this measurement. Since the correct support of the scientists is so important, this measurement is also one of the criteria set out in the cooperation agreement between the polar institute and IPF. If this satisfaction measurement is not carried out or if the satisfaction is systematically inadequate, this is a ground for not extending the concession. This satisfaction measurement is only one of the evaluation criteria agreed. The evaluation criteria include the reception of Belgian and foreign scientific delegations in accordance with the modalities laid down in this Agreement, the provision of the IPF's annual environmental report, the exploitation and maintenance of the base during the summer in Antarctica from November to February, in accordance with the modalities laid down in this Agreement, except in cases of force majeure, the guarantee of a link with the base and certain scientific equipment during the winter in Antarctica from March to October, and the application, implementation and compliance with safety standards for persons and goods. Another of the evaluation criteria is the sound financial management of the basis, including the timely payment of subcontractors, transparent invoicing with evidence that the budget for a given campaign was used exclusively for the specific expenditure related to the campaign concerned. A further criterion is the annual establishment of a site description and an inventory, including the stock statement. The annual preparation or adaptation of the infrastructure and investment plan should also be carried out. Furthermore, a satisfaction survey should be submitted to any scientist who has been present on the basis or who has sent out scientific activities on the basis or in its surroundings. Another evaluation criterion is the non-structural deficit in the obligations provided for in the agreement. These criteria also form the basis for a contradictory annual report. In doing so, the polar institute will review the activity report of IPF against these criteria. The agreements also constitute a balanced set of transparent rules and procedures for the following campaigns. A lot of time and energy was put into working out these agreements by both parties. Now they will also have to prove themselves in practice. If I am not mistaken, in mid-November, a first batch of five scientists left for the South Pole base for scientific research. Mr de Lamotte had another question about the perimeter. It consists of a quadrangle. I have a picture of it that I'd like to hand over to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u46	Madam Secretary of State, as far as my first question about the Pax Antarctica is concerned, your answer is very comprehensive, but as far as the second question is concerned, I remain puzzled. This is the second time I've asked you the question, in July and now, and you're not talking about it. Either there's an eel under rock, or you're telling me that you're not answering me because you're in the negotiating phase with this second polar station. I wonder why I don't get an answer. In July, you did not answer me and I said that I would ask the question in writing. I come back to the subject today, saying that I leave time to the time, the time of parliamentary leave. I have a very specific question here with regard to the project to build a new polar station. A press article on this subject was published in July. At the time you made your general policy note, I asked you the question. I didn't formalize myself because we were busy with a debate. Now I ask you whether there is really a project to build a new polar station and whether it will replace the existing one. I'd like to know a little more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u47	The plans for the second pole station are primarily a concept. Right now, there are no financiers to my knowledge. It is also a completely private project of the IPF. All I know is that there's a concept, but no funder yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u48	Thank you for the answer. An article appeared in the press, which had drawn my attention. There was a debate following the presentation of your policy note, and I had opted for a written question. I came back with this because it had kind of stopped me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u49	I know, but you shouldn't always believe what's in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u50	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u51	That's what I've learned in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u52	In the meantime, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u53	Madam Secretary of State, you are absolutely right. I am not a fan of the press, but faced with such an important title on a second polar station, I still wanted it to be clarified, for me, but also for you. Thus, the debate is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u54	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I will read it to see the monitoring criteria that you mentioned and the mechanisms that you mentioned. I'll come back if necessary. Thank you for the document, which defines the scope within which the federal grant will support the research project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u55	Questions No 20780, No 20782 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux and Question No 20820 by Mr Calomne are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u56	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the reorganization of BELSPO has been waiting for several years while the morale of the organisation's staff is at the lowest. With regard to the timing, when you presented your policy brief, you said that several studies on the provision of scientific services and services to the public were to be completed by the summer and that the autonomous institutions would be set up in collaboration with an independent office. We asked you a number of specific questions about human resources, financial resources and synergies. You told us that these questions are precisely within the scope of the mission and that it is therefore not yet possible to answer them on 17 May. We hope to receive our answers today. What is the timetable for the reform of BELSPO? Have the summer studies on the provision of scientific services and services to the public been completed? Can you provide us with these studies: the one on legal conditionalities, the one on vision and organizational structure and the one on communication management? You said that "the empowerment of FSEs is a healthy exercise in terms of rationalisation and efficiency". I assume that this is supported by an economic study. Have you drawn up a business plan and done a comparative analysis between the current model and the future model? Can you pass them on to us? Has a call for tenders been launched to select the independent office that will collaborate in the establishment of the autonomous institutions? What's the status of the selection? Has the office been designated? Which one is it? Will there still be centralized services common to all FSEs - e.g. those dedicated to communication technologies, human resources and legal services - in the form of a Shared Service Center common to all empowered clusters? What kind of quick wins do you think you're getting by integrating the PPS into the FPS Economy? Why do you integrate the Science Policy PPS into the Economy FPS before the overall reform of BELSPO? Is the integration of the Science Policy PPS into the FPS Economy not costing, for example, due to relocation of offices? What is the status of the Inter-federal Space Agency? Have the negotiations with the unions taken place? Can you tell us about this? How did you respond to the Minister of Budget's four questions? Can you provide us with these answers with an overview of financial flows and returns on investment and a management plan that includes demonstrable savings? The Walloon Union of Enterprises has asked the government to open a discussion on the modalities of the reform of scientific policy, particularly in the field of space. It is important that this consultation with a view to an agreement takes place on the basis of a precise description – functioning, governance, involvement of the Regions, etc. –, in order not to create an organ that has quickly made to be sclerosed. Have you consulted with stakeholders for this purpose? The governments of the Brussels-Capital Region – including your federal coalition partners CD&V and Open Vld – and the Walloon Region have referred the consultation committee to ask the federal government to withdraw the proposed reorganization of BELSPO and the creation of ISAB. Has it responded to this request? Minister Koen Geens takes care to pass on to Parliament important organizational projects early enough to ensure that youth diseases will occur when he is still in charge of the issues. Will BELSPO's reorganization still be possible under this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u57	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, I do not have a translation of the answer to this question, for which I apologise. The reform of federal science policy is a major operation. This includes not only the inclination of the Science Policy PPS and the FPS Economy, but also the independence of the FWI and the establishment of an inter-federal space agency. At the same time, the provision of services must be guaranteed. You will agree with me that proper preparation is needed for such an operation. I have to admit that the timing for this operation is starting to get pretty sharp. However, that is no reason for me to be hasty. Hurry and rush is rarely good. As you know, I was not appointed until the end of February 2017 and although I immediately flew into work, there is a lot of work on the shelf. I would prefer to work out a well-founded and structurally sound reform, with the risk that it will not be fully implemented by the end of this legislature, rather than a half-hearted reform that will handicap federal science policy for years. I want to gather as much information as possible for the independence of the FWI. You refer, among other things, to the so-called peer reviews and the screening of the functioning of the FWI by the study firm Technopolis Amsterdam. These peer reviews have been finalised with some delay and are currently being delivered to the FWI. If you wish, I can provide you with a copy of the study and I can also ask that the staff of the study bureau should come and give an explanation. These peer reviews are primarily an evaluation of the current functioning of the FWI, their weaknesses and strengths. Following on and building on this, I would also like to support substantively the development of a future management model of the FWI. For this, I will have to call on a consultancy firm. To this end, a framework agreement is in place at federal level with Deloitte. They have already made an initial research proposal. I am currently assessing whether this meets the needs and expectations. Without prejudging the results of this study, I can tell you that it is my personal conviction that there will still be a need for one shared service centre. The level at which this should be organised is also part of the study. The reversal of the Science Policy PPS in the FPS Economy was already decided in principle by the Council of Ministers. A joint working group is working on the practical arrangements for this. This includes the timetable, the transitional measures and so on. Indeed, in all scenario scenarios, both the public service provision and the proper support of the FWI must remain guaranteed. Indeed, the cost must also be taken into account in these discussions. Luckily in an accident, perhaps, but the rental contract of the Platinium building where the Science Policy PPS is currently housed ends in 2019. This requires moving anyway, but creates opportunities at the same time. The dossier for the establishment of the Belgian Inter-Federal Space Agency was approved by the Council of Ministers at first reading at the end of 2016. As you point out, the Minister for the Budget set four conditions when it was adopted at second reading. That has not yet been met. For example, I am still waiting for the report to be drawn up by the Finance Inspector appointed by the Minister for the Budget. In order to be well armed to further develop this dossier, I am engaged in a consultation with the various stakeholders in the space sector. I haven't been able to meet the Union Wallone des Entreprises yet, but I will certainly invite them soon. I am aware of the démarche of the Brussels-Capital Region and the Walloon Region into the Consultation Committee. This is motivated by a legitimate concern about the continuity and efficiency of federal science policy. This concern is also shared by the federal government and is taken into account in the reform plans. I admit that there is still a great deal of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u58	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. I didn't count the question marks in your answer, but I think you have as many questions as I do! I will read your answer again, but I do not hide from you that we will return to this important element when presenting your policy note. There are still a lot of questions, especially to reassure BELSPO staff, researchers and operators. I understand that you will go step by step and that not everything will be implemented at the end of the legislature, but we will certainly come back to this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u59	Madam Secretary of State, since we are one-on-one, if you have a new name, you can communicate it to us. He's not getting out of here. It was pleased that the terms of reference for the replacement of the Belgica oceanographic research vessel had finally been finalized. You say, however, want to find a new name for the replacement ship. Madam Secretary of State, why don't you keep the name "Belgica"? This name is, in fact, historical and associated with scientific research since it is derived from the name of the Belgian scientific exploration vessel used during the Belgian Antarctic expedition of Adrien de Gerlache. Beyond this historical fact, if it is not "Belgica", what is the procedure that will allow to choose a new name?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u60	Mr President, in 1899, the original vessel Belgica wrote history when it became the first ship to winter in Antarctica. This fact is certainly historic and deserves recognition. For me, however, this is not enough reason to name every Belgian research vessel. I believe that the best form of recognition for this achievement is the active role of the federal government in promoting scientific research in Antarctica. As I mentioned in my policy statement, I want to involve the public more closely in the various aspects of scientific research. Allowing people to decide on the name of the new ship can contribute to this. In the United Kingdom, for example, the public was consulted to find a name for the new research vessel Sir David Attenborough. This created a momentum and involvement in this ship as well as in the investigation it will carry out. That is why it is my wish that our new research vessel, too, should be involved in this. I have already said that I personally would like the ship to be named after a female scientist, but I would also like to tell you that another ship called Belgica is being built. Vzw De Steenschuit in Boom started construction of a seaworthy replica of the original ship of Ardrien de Gerlache in 2007. This new Belgica project is both a way of getting the long-term unemployed into work and a training place for the VDAB. It is Belgium's largest social marital project and for me this can also count as a tribute to the original Belgica.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u61	What will be the procedure? A survey, a quiz, an investigation? How will the choice be made? Is the procedure already defined?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u62	Mr de Lamotte, the procedure has not yet been completed, because in principle the ship will not be ready until 2020. So we still have some time to unsubscribe the procedure. Let us hope that the ship is there before we talk about the name. Of course, this will be done by means of a procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u63	I take note.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic749x.u64	We conclude that you will remain attentive to this, among others.
