ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 July 2017, I propose to you. to be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law amending the Law of 2 August 2002 on the supervision of the financial sector and financial services, with a view to implementing Regulation (EU) No. Directive 2014/57/EU on criminal penalties for market abuse and implementing Directive (EU) 2015/2392 as regards the reporting of infringements, and laying down various provisions, Nos 2504/1 to 7; - the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and restricting the use of cash, Nos 2566/1 to 4; - the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and restricting the use of cash as regards certain accelerated review procedures before the Council of State, Nos 2567/1 to 3; - the draft law laying down various provisions on social affairs, Nos 2592/1; - the draft law amending the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and other pipelines and the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market, Nos 2583/1 to 3; - the draft law establishing an appeal procedure against a decision on the selection procedure for the limited categories of groundhandling services at Brussels National Airport, Nos 2570/1 to 3. . to be entered on the agenda of tomorrow afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law laying down various health provisions, Nos 2599/1 to 4; - the draft law amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights with a view to reforming registry rights, Nos 2569/1 to 7; - the proposal (Mr Francis Delpérée, Mrs Meryame Kitrir and Mr Peter De Roover, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Patrick Dewael) to revise Article 12 of the Constitution, Nos 2611/1 to 4; - the proposal (Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Marcel Cheron and Mrs Muriel Gerkens, Mrs Anne Dedry and Mrs Evita Willaert) to revise Article 12 of the Constitution in order to allow an extension of the time limit for arrest to 48 hours, No. 1712/1-2; - the proposal (Mr Hans Bonte) to revise Article 12, third paragraph, of the Constitution as regards the extension of the time limit for arrest to 48 hours, Nos 1713/1 to 4; - the proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Christian Brotcorne and Mr Georges Dallemagne) to revise Article 12, third paragraph, of the Constitution, Nos 1741/1 to 3; - the proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck, Mr Benoît Lutgen, Mrs Vanessa Matz, Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Benoît Dispa, Mrs Isabelle Poncelet and Mr Michel de Lamotte) to revise Article 12 (3) of the Constitution, Nos 2047/1 to 3; - the proposal (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) to revise Article 12 of the Constitution in order to bring the period of insurance to 48 hours, Nos 2132/1 to 3; - the appointment of the effective chairman of the Disciplinary Board of the CREG. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 July 2017, I propose you. to include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law amending the Act of 2 August 2002 on supervision of the financial sector and financial services, with a view to implementing Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 on market abuse and transposing Directive 2014/57/EU on criminal penalties for market abuse and Implementing Directive (EU) 2015/2392 on reporting of infringements, and introducing various provisions, Nos. 2504/1 to 7; - the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and the restriction of the use of cash, Nos. 2566/1 to 4; - the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and the restriction of the use of cash with regard to certain expedited procedures of appeal to the Council of State, Nos. 2567/1 to 3; - the draft law on various provisions in social matters, Nos. 2592/1 to 3; - the draft law amending the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipeline and the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market, Nos. 2583/1 to 3; - the draft law establishing an appeal procedure against a decision on the selection procedure for the limited categories of groundhandling services at Brussels-National Airport, Nos 2570/1 to 3. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - the bill on various provisions in the field of health, Nos. 2599/1 to 4; - Bill amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Fees to reform Registry Fees, Nos. 2569/1 to 7; - the proposal (Mrs. Francis Delperée, Meryame Kitir and MM. Peter De Roover, Denis Ducrame, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael) to review article 12 of the Constitution, Nos. 2611/1 to 4; - the proposal (MM. Stefaan Van Hecke, Gilles Vanden Burre, Jean-Marc Nollet and Marcel Cheron and Mrs Muriel Gerkens, Anne Dedry and Evita Willaert) to review article 12 of the Constitution in order to allow the extension of the period of arrest to 48 hours, No. 1712/1-2; - the proposal (Mr Hans Bonte) to revise Article 12(3) of the Constitution with a view to extending the period of arrest to 48 hours, Nos. 1713/1 to 3; - the proposal (Ms Catherine Fonck and MM. Christian Brotcorne and Georges Dallemagne) to review article 12, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, Nos. 1741/1 to 3; - the proposal (Ms Catherine Fonck, Benoît Lutgen, Vanessa Matz, MM. Georges Dallemagne and Benoît Dispa, Mrs Isabelle Poncelet and Mr Michel de Lamotte) to review article 12, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, Nos. 2047/1 to 3; - the proposal (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) to revise Article 12 of the Constitution to extend the time limit for police custody to 48 hours, Nos. 2132/1 to 3; - the appointment of the effective Chairman of the Disciplinary Council of the CREG. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u3	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Annemie Turtelboom, Tim Vandenput, Fatma Pehlivan, Roel Deseyn, Karine Lalieux, An Capoen, Wouter De Vriendt, Kattrin Jadin, Jean-Jacques Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u4	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2040/13) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2040/13) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Crusnière and Mrs Bellens are the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u5	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u6	I call Mrs Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been co-chairing for many years now, alongside Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Roel Deseyn, the group of parliamentarians for Agenda 2030, which is focused on the importance of a focus on sexual and reproductive rights, a group that – and we will thank them here in plenary – thanks to the support of Sensoa International, is at the origin of many symbolic advocacy initiatives or, as here, the drafting of parliamentary texts. Every colleague here usually participates in all these initiatives. It is therefore in this context that I have co-signed this motion for a resolution. This also shows that the majority and the opposition can work hand in hand when it comes to texts for women's rights in particular. Belgium has been a pioneer in this field for years. I therefore welcome the initiatives taken by our country at international level in particular to combat any form of discrimination based on gender or sexual orientation. I also welcome Belgian proactivity at the She Decisions Donor Conference, which raised as much as EUR 181 million to enhance the safety of the practice of voluntary termination of pregnancy, while the Trump administration decided, in a scandalous way, to cut food off from such projects in developing countries. If we are lucky enough to live in a country that has for years made sexual and reproductive health and rights a cross-cutting priority of our international and development efforts, this is unfortunately not the case in many countries and even in the European countries. This fight reminds us that nothing is gained as far as the conservative pressures in many countries and in international forums are strong, pressures that deny the extent to which underdevelopment in family planning or the fight against AIDS and STIs undermine efforts to eradicate hunger or poverty in the world, for example. For example, millions of women do not have access to contraception, and at the global level, one in three women has experienced sexual violence during their lifetime, not to mention cases of genital mutilation or the problem of early marriage, against which I had taken a similar initiative at the beginning of the legislature. Indeed, the fight for sexual and reproductive rights has been a priority for my group for years. Under the previous legislature, we had put forward and had adopted by the House a motion for a resolution on sexual and reproductive health and rights within the framework of the post-2015 Millennium Development Goals. This new text before us is a mobilization within the framework of Agenda 2030 to achieve these sexual and reproductive rights. My colleague, Stéphane Crusnière, has also tabled a text to make our Assembly more active in the legislative follow-up to this 2030 Agenda. Such reminders are essential, as the work of the Inter-Parliamentary Group of the 2030 Goals proves and above all the cruel news with the positions taken, for example – I regret to repeat this again – by Belgium during the UN vote that allowed Saudi Arabia's election to the Commission on Women's Rights and the decisions of the Trump administration. The aim is to work actively, both at European and United Nations level, to promote equality between women and men, to protect sexual and reproductive health and rights in pursuit of the MDGs, and to advocate for the removal of barriers to the exercise of those rights. We cannot show any relaxation in this matter. While women and girls have been able to benefit from progress in some areas since the adoption of the Millennium Development Goals in education, maternal health, etc., gender inequalities remain an ongoing challenge for all regions of the world and constitute a major systematic impediment to sustainable development in many respects. Investing in gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls, in particular, through education is not only a human rights imperative, it can become one of the most effective levers to fight poverty and thus make a vital contribution to sustainable development both in its economic, social and environmental dimensions, which is why women have a key role to play in achieving each of the SDGs. It is now up to Belgium to implement budgetary and human resources to achieve these development goals if we are not to limit ourselves to communication. I am concerned about the potential impact of the government's sometimes drastic economic measures in the area of development cooperation and I hope that this text will help to boost the resources in this area. My group will therefore strongly support this text. Finally, I would like to conclude my speech by thanking all the colleagues with whom I worked together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u8	Mr President, I will be brief, because the content of the resolution before us is clear and undeniable. So I don't think I should go into that much more deeply. Everyone must have the right to decide freely about their own bodies worldwide, especially since there are still thousands of victims of traditional customs and discriminatory legislation at present. Too often it concerns women and the Igbtqi community. The theme of sexual and reproductive health is therefore a priority theme for our development cooperation. However, the family planning and teenage pregnancy situation is still problematic in some of our partner countries. The issue of the 2030 Agenda therefore remains topical. These issues are also part of Minister De Croo's policy paper and the gender strategy of Belgian Development Cooperation. For the N-VA Group, I can only say that we support the multisectoral approach of the gender strategy and the gender plan. We support an active implementation of the 2030 Agenda. Sexual and reproductive health therefore deserves additional attention, as does education, on which we adopted a resolution a few weeks ago. It transcends the interests of the individual and can have an impact on an entire society, which can thus emerge from a vicious circle, in which a lack of knowledge and access to sexual and reproductive health care results in poverty. I have therefore co-signed this resolution for the N-VA Group, which will support it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are fortunate to live in a country where sexual rights and access to reproductive health care are not questioned by politicians. It is often easy in this House to forget that this is not evident in the rest of the world. In the United States, there are people in power, such as Vice President Mike Pence, who want to reverse these rights worldwide. He finds allies in several countries, including in European countries, such as Poland. A major boost for these people with an ultra-conservative agenda was Saudi Arabia's accession to the UN Women's Rights Council. The UN draws up texts and recommendations on social rights and health care with a consensus approach. As a result, many of these texts are often deliberately vague or limited. This is the so-called agitated language, to which the resolution originally referred and called for it to be defended internationally. That is why I tabled an amendment from our group, which was also adopted unanimously, not to depart from the UN's positions on this subject, but from the Belgian positions. Given that this resolution has the great ambition to place these issues more prominently in discussions with our partner countries in the South and within the EU, it seems appropriate to me that we should not be cautious and take our own vision as a guiding principle. It is not up to us to defend the consensus but just to bring the consensus closer to our positions. This resolution was discussed in committee and my group co-signed it. We shall therefore be voting in favour of this resolution with complete conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are currently living in a time when sexual and reproductive rights are more than ever threatened as they allow women, where these rights are exercised freely and without constraint, to freely dispose of their bodies in complete safety. These sexual and reproductive rights have been considered human rights in their own right by the United Nations, and rightly so. In March 2016, the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights stressed that the right to sexual and reproductive health is an integral part of the general right to health, enshrined in article 12 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and is fundamentally linked to the enjoyment of other human rights, including the right to education and work, the right to life, privacy, the prohibition of torture and individual autonomy. This implies a duty on our part to defend sexual and reproductive rights in our country but also abroad and, in particular, in our partner countries for development cooperation. As Tawakkol Karman, awarded in 2011 by the Nobel Peace Prize, rightly said for his struggle for women's rights: "We cannot achieve democracy and lasting peace in the world without women getting the same opportunities as men to influence the development of society. However, these opportunities can only be seized in the absence of violence against women and the violation of their sexual and reproductive rights." A meaningful word echoed in the motion for a resolution before us today, in that it aims at the practical implementation of the 2030 goals on sexual and reproductive health and rights adopted unanimously by the United Nations General Assembly on 25 September 2015. Clear and essential goals such as reducing maternal mortality, access to sexual and reproductive health services, ending sexual exploitation, honour killings, forced heterosexuality and early and forced marriages. This motion for a resolution therefore calls on the Government, and among other things, to address the growing challenges to these rights at both European and international level and to defend the European acquis and Belgian legislation as an ideal. Europe has indeed been a pioneer in the field of sexual and reproductive rights and must spread the good word outside the old continent. But it must also be critical of the situation of these rights in its own territory. For while Belgium can boast of having highly progressive legislation, other Member States, for example, still prohibit abortion, pushing women to have abortions in very poor conditions, which the 2030 Agenda intends to combat. It is also justified by the struggle of many men and women who have dedicated their lives to the defence of sexual and reproductive rights and the fight against violence against women, whether it be clandestine abortions, forced marriages or female genital mutilation. I am thinking in particular of Dr Denis Mukwege, more commonly called the man who repairs women. It was he who revealed to the world all the horror of FGM in his country, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in twenty-seven other countries in Africa and the Middle East. It was also he who denounced the collective rape used as a weapon of war. Mr. Mukwege was one of those persons who had understood that the development of a State required the medical, psychological, economic and legal care of the victims of such violence so that they could physically and psychologically rebuild themselves and, in turn, plead for an end to such practices. When we talk about sexual and reproductive rights, we also think about the right to safe and medical abortion. The United Nations is increasingly emphasizing that the lack of emergency obstetric care services or the refusal of abortion often leads to maternal mortality and morbidity, which in turn violates the right to life and security and, in certain circumstances, can be equated with torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment. Through his outrageous ban on funding international NGOs supporting abortion, US President Trump has demonstrated that abortion is indeed the first fight of opponents for the full autonomy of women, whether in our country or in the countries that are our partners in development cooperation. Our legislation may be imperfect, since we still cannot reach an agreement on the total removal of the IVG from the Criminal Code, but it must, however, serve as an example, as a vision to be defended with the countries members of the United Nations. The positive effects on women's health that the Lallemand-Michielsen law has produced deserve to be known and should serve as arguments for the effective achievement of the goals of the 2030 Agenda. On these good words, it is clear that we will support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their statements today and also for their cooperation in committee. With this resolution from Parliament, we are strengthening our country's leading role in defending women's rights worldwide. However, I would like to refer again to the donor conference "She Decides', a joint initiative of Minister Alexander De Croo and his Dutch colleague. No less than 181 million euros were collected for safe pregnancy breaks. That conference was a response to the decision in America to shut down the money supply for projects in developing countries in that area. This resolution stresses the importance of women's rights. Moreover, countries develop better when women's rights are respected, women are free and they can decide when they want children and how much. These countries are making huge leaps forward because women can be more active there. Finally, I would also like to thank my fellow Members who are active in the 2030 Parliamentary Working Group and the support services of Sensoa who are always ready to organise the meetings and interesting actions that will help us keep the theme warm. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u12	Mr President, I would very simply like to associate a man's voice with the voices of the women who have just spoken and who have done so excellently. Their word is golden. I would just like to thank Mrs Lalieux, Mrs Caprasse, Mrs Capoen, Mrs Pehlivan, Mrs Lahaye-Batteu for the words they have just said. I think it is indeed very important that this issue of sexual and reproductive rights be at the heart, at the centre of our development concerns and cooperation. I would also like to highlight the excellent work that Parliament is doing with NGOs in this area and in particular with Sensoa. I think that this is a very useful, very thorough work which will, of course, continue in the light of this resolution. I will not be longer, but I just wanted to stress the quality of the statements made by my colleagues, to which I obviously agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u13	Mr President, neither will I be very long because the essential thing has already been said. We would like to commend the work of the sponsors of the motion for a resolution, particularly with regard to our group, the work of Mrs Jadin and Mr Flahaux. This is an important resolution in our eyes because it is a resolution against discrimination, against pressure, against violence, sexual mutilation and even crimes committed mainly against women, homosexuals and LGBTQI. The resolution deals with the right to health, the right to a healthy sexuality and the right to a desired and assumed parenthood. A Swedish author, Johan Norberg, in his book No, this was no better before, insists that it is from the moment, ladies and gentlemen, when progress, science and democracy have developed that sexual freedom, which is a fundamental right in the eyes of our party, has been given the right to a city and has been truly lived by all people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as co-chair of the working group, I would also like to take the floor to warmly welcome the initiatives and cooperation of all my fellow Members. The agenda and the ambitions that have been formulated here in terms of sexual and reproductive rights reach 2030 and are a mission of all governments in Belgium. More and more cooperation is sometimes needed in this respect. Recently, in the hearing with diplomats and officials of our working group, chaired by Mr Lahaye-Battheu, we found that this cooperation is not yet optimal. The implementation of the Sustainable Development Agenda must therefore be a collective ambition, a horizontal policy line across all departments. Belgium has voluntarily submitted itself to some kind of assessment, but has not received equal input from all departments. For some departments, of which I remember the example of Defence, it is good that the Minister of Defence is present, we are still waiting for input for the objective of the Sustainable Development Agenda. I don't think that's unimportant. I think it's a working point for a next voluntary assessment. We will therefore report to the United Nations that we can do this in an integrated and global manner. It is also a commendable report, which shows how our country implements sustainable development in many areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u15	Mr President, Mr De Croo has asked me to say the following. Sexual and reproductive health and rights are an important priority in Belgian Development Cooperation. They are a priority in our gender strategy and in our gender action plan. Belgium is one of the pioneers of the "She Decides" initiative and puts women's rights, and in particular sexual health and rights, prominently on the agenda. On Tuesday 11 July, Minister De Croo took part in the London Family Panning Summit. The commitment is also reflected in our multilateral, bilateral and non-governmental cooperation. Mr Deseyn, I would just like to point out that you are looking at the reports of the Committee on Defence, in which it has been demonstrated on several occasions that, among other things, in the field of gender equality, Belgian Defence is one of the pioneers. The ladies who have asked the questions will be able to tell you more about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u16	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u17	The vote on the proposal will take place tomorrow. The vote on the proposal will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u18	Mr Van Rompuy has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u19	Mr President, I would like to speak on the agenda. I have just been informed that the Conference of Presidents has decided on the draft tax and financial provisions (No. 2488) should not be dealt with now, but after September. I don't understand anything about that. We approved this matter at second reading on Friday afternoon. A report was made on that second reading. I hear that the text relating to the Registry fees will be dealt with tomorrow. That's perfect. It was also adopted at second reading. There is also another draft on market abuse, which was adopted at second reading. I do not understand why the aforementioned draft is being postponed to September. It contains a number of important provisions. We met on Friday afternoon for the second reading. There has been no discussion on this subject, except for the ordinary discussion between the majority and the opposition. I do not understand why this draft is being removed from the agenda and postponed to September. That is what happened in the Conference of Presidents. I'm not part of that. As chairman of the committee, I believe that a decision has been taken without knowing what is going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u20	Mr Van Rompuy, it is quite simple. You know this better than I do: the Conference of Presidents can only decide by consensus. I think I recall that Mr Calvo, who will correct me if necessary, raised objections. I can only conclude that there is no consensus. Mr Calvo has prevented this. I can only take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u21	Mr President, a plenary session is master of its agenda. Would it not be possible to deal with the draft in question? That's not a political question. I am speaking now as chairman of the committee. We met last Friday and now we want to get that draft off the agenda after it was adopted at second reading. On the other hand, I suggest that we discuss it tonight or tomorrow. There's no need to postpone it until September. It also contains a number of provisions which should enter into force by 1 September. I really do not understand the procedure, as I have just said to Mr Calvo personally. Can we simply change the agenda and add the discussion of the draft? I think that people simply do not know what design it is and what course it has taken. That is not personal, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u22	Mr President, first of all, I would like to look at this in the light of the drafts that we need to discuss. I do not remember any specific arguments from me at the Conference. Moreover, if you know the Conference and treat it normally, then it is not customary to say here in plenary that this or that is the cause.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u23	Mijnheer Calvo, you must have the courage of his ideas! You said at the conference...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u24	Above all, I would like to say to the majority that if certain things are not on the agenda today, then it is necessary to look for a part of the responsibility on its own.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u25	That could be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u26	Just look at what's being unleashed on us. Mr Van Rompuy, your group did not mention this earlier in the Conference, and if you insist, I would like to look at it. However, we should not be accused of obstruction here. Mr President, you were there earlier. Of many designs, despite the late discussion, the opposition accepted that it could simply continue. How many cases have we asked for a second reading in the last straight line? For very little. I would therefore rather underline the opposition's cooperation rather than highlighting that we would stop it, because I really do not appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u27	You are right on that last point. On the first point, it is simply a fact that it was you; you said that the text will be discussed not now but in September. I believe I can quote you? In the absence of consensus, this addition to the agenda was not accepted. If we reach a consensus here, we will add the draft to the agenda in extreme terms. But without consensus, we cannot simply change the agenda unless we vote on it; we are not quite in numbers for that at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u28	I'm not accusing anyone. I have only heard you say it, because I am not taking part in those meetings. I think there's been a technical mistake. The draft was discussed at second reading in the Finance Committee and the report was produced within the normal time limit. There is therefore no argument to postpone the discussion until September. I'm not blaming anyone. I did not inform my group colleagues either, because I simply did not suspect that it would be postponed. However, the other issues such as the rights of the Registry and the abuse of the market are on the agenda. I do not see why that particular draft has been taken off the agenda. If anyone opposes the discussion, I will not ask for a vote. I would like to point out that, as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I have now made a technical mistake by postponing the debate until September, when we have even had ten days before the second reading. I call to my fellow Members to witness that we discussed the text last Friday afternoon in the perspective that we would be discussing it in plenary on Wednesday or Thursday. By the way, I would like to point out to colleagues that the draft contains a number of provisions which will apply over the next few months. But what if the text is not adopted until September?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u29	Colleagues, I'm making another attempt. Is there a consensus to deal with the draft in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u30	We'll look into that for tomorrow. I raised general objections at the Conference of Presidents. In the meantime, I would like to invite the majority to regularly salute the opposition for its constructive work, because that is what we have been doing in recent days. I believe that this is a huge caricature, especially when we see what is now being put on the agenda in which we have contributed, including a constitutional change. What have you done, as President of the Chamber? Nothing! What initiatives have you taken to facilitate this? None! We have just accepted everything on the agenda at the Conference of Presidents. We have been involved in all these texts in the committees over the last few weeks. So I do not have to take any blame from you in that regard, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u31	Mr Calvo, I don't blame you. I remind you of a fact. You, and no one else, said that you were opposed to adding this draft to the agenda. That's not a reproach, it's a fact. I would prefer to respect that fact. I note, moreover, that you are holding up your objection. We will not add this to the agenda now. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u32	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Peter Luykx, Peter De Roover, Brecht Vermeulen, Tim Vandenput, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Richard Miller, Vincent Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u33	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1975/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1975/6) The title was amended by the Committee in its draft resolution on the protection of religious and philosophical minorities in North Africa, the Near East and the Middle East." The title has been amended by the committee to propose a resolution on the protection of religious and philosophical minorities in North Africa, the Middle East and the Middle East." The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u34	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that, after about one year of discussions in the committee and behind the scenes, we can once again present a resolution calling on the government to stand up for religious minorities in the Middle East and North Africa. This resolution has a history. In 2014, as a member of the opposition, I launched a similar initiative. That was well received by the majority. Together with Mr de Donnea, former chairman of the Committee on External Relations, we then continued with a joint resolution on majority and opposition to stand up for the protection of the aforementioned religious minorities. In recent years, the situation in these regions has become increasingly precarious. The escalation of violence meant that religious minorities and their cultural heritage threatened to be wiped off the map. That is why we welcome this new initiative, which once again received the unanimous support and approval of the committee. This resolution is not just a call, but it is already in practice today. This government, through the Foreign Minister, Mr Reynders, and Secretary of State Theo Francken, is implementing what we ask them to do as a Parliament. Let me briefly summarise what this resolution is asking for. We call on this government to make the protection of religious minorities a priority of foreign policy and to condemn in full the eradication, killing and attacks on these groups, without reservation. It must not only be a priority in our own foreign policy, but we must also register at European level and address this problem at European level. We must actively ask the diplomatic corps in this country to act in order to get in touch with representatives of that region. It is not just about Christian minorities, but about various religious minorities. This is also true, and this is what this federal resolution refers to, about minorities all over the world. We must not forget that Christianity is one of the most threatened religions in the world, with 200 million Christians at risk of being abused, kidnapped and murdered worldwide every day. This problem arises not only in the Middle East and North Africa, but also in North Korea, Turkey, Pakistan and Nigeria. It is a global problem, with geopolitical consequences, but also with consequences for the groups concerned on the ground. I am therefore very pleased that we are making this appeal from the majority, just as I made the same appeal as a member of the minority at the time. Facta non verba [[.]] We carry out what we have asked, either from the opposition, or from the majority. Thank you all for your support for this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u36	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group has supported in committee and will continue to support this text in plenary today, which calls for a full and firm condemnation of the killing of Christians and other religious minorities in Egypt, Syria, Libya and Iraq, as well as of the targeted persecution and violence against Christian communities and all religious and philosophical minorities in North Africa, the Near and Middle East. In the current and regional context, this text is an important act for our Assembly. However, I have made several comments on this text. In committee, I tabled a number of amendments which were intended to be constructive, which did not minimise the objectives of this resolution but extended its scope to freedom of expression, a concept which was too absent from this text. Unfortunately, my arguments were rejected by the majority with one turn of the hand when they were often a copy and paste of the positions taken by your groups during the previous legislature, when a common text was adopted which the N-VA has largely plagiarized here. For on the PS side, I defended exactly the same position as in the previous legislature. We have always regarded as absolute priorities of Belgian diplomacy, freedom of expression and, more generally, respect for fundamental freedoms - inalienable and non-negotiable priorities, whether to address the situation in Belgium, in Europe or around the world. This text states on page 4 of the developments: "That is why we call on the federal government in this resolution to make the protection of religious minorities the spearhead of its foreign policy." I said "the," so the only spear! In committee, I have heard Mr Miller's justifications and I thank him for that, but unfortunately we cannot amend developments. For us, one of the priorities of our diplomacy must be the sacrosanct freedom of expression...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u37	Mr. Miller would like to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u38	This was not an amendment on my part. My remark did not ask for an amendment to the text. There is a translation error in the text and therefore a technical correction to be made. That's the point I made. There is an error in translation with regard to the original text of our colleague Peter Luykx who did not speak of "the lance". I have therefore asked - and I am sorry to learn that this has not been corrected - that this is simply "a strong axis of foreign policy" but not the only axis. That was granted to me in committee. I wanted to stress this: this is not an amendment and I have not amended the text of the developments. I pointed out a lack of translation between the original text and the text in French.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u39	Unfortunately, the text presented today still corresponds to these terms, "the lance"!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I remember the debate very well. This is a linguistic refinement. Our French-speaking colleagues can look up the difference, but also the similarities between the Dutch and the French languages. It's a spearhead. It's a spearhead. It's a spearhead. As Mr Miller says, I, too, understood from the discussion in committee that it was approved that it was a spearhead. So, not the only spearhead of foreign policy, but a spearhead.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u41	Mr President, we all agree. It must indeed be one of the spears but not "the" spear. I therefore suggest, if it is still possible, that the text be amended accordingly. In any event, in parliamentary proceedings, this version will remain a record. One of the priorities of our diplomacy is absolutely to be the sacrosanct freedom of expression which, as I said, is not included in this text, nor was it included in the original text of the MR before the amendments of the PS under the previous legislature. I would remind you that at the time they were adopted. A freedom of expression which, however, de facto, most strongly condemns any initiative aimed at criminalizing freedom of expression, including on religious issues, such as blasphemy laws. A freedom of expression which, de facto, guarantees the freedom to believe or not to believe. It is in this sense that we have always preferred to talk about freedom of expression and religion and the fight against all forms of discrimination, rather than highlighting or opposing particular groups of the population, such as a clash of civilization. The future of the countries of the region targeted by this text lies in the post-Community where a true society can politically and socially emerge and organize itself beyond the membership of a particular group. Faced with the dramatic situation in this region of the world, which illustrates the impotence of the international community and the thousands of deaths in Syria alone, every death of a civilian is a death of too many. A non-religious political approach to conflict must be favoured, for, as we know, religion is often only a pretext for establishing or justifying well-political decisions. However, don't make me say what I didn't say! It is a question of recognizing that it is unacceptable for Christian communities in the countries covered by the text to be intimidated, driven out or killed. The ethnic destruction of Daesh or other terrorist groups must be combated and condemned, of course. International justice must be able to carry out its work in that regard. We therefore fully support the text, as under the previous legislature, among other things the request 1 of this text which is submitted to us. I would also like to denounce, despite everything, the cynicism of the N-VA, which was included in the basic text and which took as an example the policy of the Secretary of State, Theo Francken, on asylum, as if the majority already knew that it was going, for the umpteenth time, to make new insulting and scandalous statements this week towards migrants in distress in the Mediterranean and for the excellent work of our military and NGOs, asking for the end of Belgian participation in the Sophia mission. It itself amended that point to delete that reference. I will conclude by saying that the protection of religious minorities is an issue that deserves the full attention of our assembly and the 3D action of Belgium, but this must be understood in the broadest concept of the defence of human rights and freedom of expression. Above all, this question cannot in any way be limited to declaratory matters, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. It is up to Belgium and, more broadly, the European Union to combine actions with words and to pursue an asylum policy in line with human rights and humanitarian rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u42	Mr President, Mr Crusnière had left his seat a little too quickly while I briefly asked for the floor for a reply. Mr Crusnière, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank you for your support for this resolution. We have had good debates on this. However, I must mention the fact that you blame Mr Theo Francken and the N-VA cynicism. If there is consistency in this dossier, then it is the rule of law of Secretary of State Theo Francken. As a member of the opposition, he defended these positions in committee. Today he implements them in his policy. So you cannot blame us for any cynicism. You are quoting in the margin a debate that still needs to be held, which I believe is completely separate from this debate on the role of the Louise-Marie and the discussions that are taking place on it. This concerns a group of people who were evacuated under very special and precarious conditions. This resolution supports the government's intervention in this area. This intervention was necessary, if not necessary, Mr Crusnière, those people were no longer there today. Mixing one thing with another, I'm sorry. Despite the good debate, I would like to keep both matters separate. The resolution will receive your support and our support. Let us be allies in this story, let us strengthen this story, but let us not fall into a political discourse. I know politics is more than just this. Please, let us keep both things separate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u43	Mr President, I have a question for Mr Luykx. Mr Luykx, the dimension you are touching, the refugee dimension, is not insignificant, not even in your text. In your request 16 to the government, you refer to the resettlement. The resettlement of war refugees is, as we all know, an important tool and a legal route to provide protection to, for example, those who live and are threatened in war zones. I would like to ask you a question and our voting behaviour will depend on your answer to it. Your request 16 is aimed at asking the government to give permanent priority to the resettlement of the most vulnerable religious minorities under direct threat of persecution and eradication and also to cooperate with their countries of origin on sustainable resettlement. If we approve your resolution, does this mean that we ask the government to give priority to the resettlement of religious minorities, rather than the resettlement of refugees who do not belong to a religious minority? Your answer is important because, in our view, vulnerability must be almost the only criterion in the decision whether or not to have people transferred. After all, we have questions when selecting people based on their religion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u44	Mrs De Coninck also asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u45	Mr President, I think Mr Luykx makes remarkable statements. Mr Luykx, you are calling for no political games to be played here. However, we are in Parliament to hold political discussions. Just so we're clear, we didn't start playing political games. On the basis of your statements, I would like to present the following. I do not know if you are aware of this, but in committee, several parties have been advocating humanitarian visas for a long time. These humanitarian visas must be combined with a number of criteria. Following on from what Mr De Vriendt has just asked, I would like to point out that you seem to distinguish between religious minorities and other minorities, such as political minorities, who are persecuted or vulnerable or whose human rights are not respected. I do not want to stop this resolution, but since you are in favour of clarity, clarity and logic, I think that you should think through and not just focus on religious minorities, whatever you mean by "religious', because even I have questions, but I will remain polite.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u46	Colleagues, every human life is worth the same. It's not about that. With this resolution, we are not trying to provide a universal, global solution for the full migration. For those who have attended the committee debates, that will be clear. We are indeed raising a specific problem for that region. According to the co-signatories of the opposition and the majority, this problem is important enough to create this resolution. A similar resolution, which was adopted in the Flemish Parliament, was supported by all Flemish parties. You are now throwing too much into one heap; that is what I meant when I said that we should avoid political games. The problem and the objectives are clearly defined in this resolution. I trust that you will acknowledge and support them, as the words of your fellow Members have shown.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u47	Our group could not be present during the discussion in committee, because it was a very busy committee week, but I did read the report on the various statements and the amendments tabled. It is a resolution that we really want to support, because protecting religious minorities is important. However, I have a bit of a crush on the word "priority'. For us, the protection of religious minorities is not a priority, no more important than, or, if you like, not superior to the protection of, for example, political refugees or war refugees. I'm still talking about request 16 to the government. Should the text, instead of giving priority to pedigree, indicate that it is important or essential to pedigree, or that it is a spearhead, not a spearhead, as in another discussion point on the text, we could go along with it. I just asked you a question about the word 'priority'. Does this mean that the resettlement of religious minorities is a priority, so more important, than the resettlement of, for example, political refugees or war refugees, in short, who do not belong to a religious minority?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u48	Mr De Vriendt, I always appreciate you, because the benefit of a good debate, a good clarification of the positions, usually leads to a common position. Without wanting to get bogged down in overly semantic discussions, but giving the expression "priority" indeed does not bring with it a hierarchical order between who and who is not, who is more and who is less. In my opinion, "Prioritary" means that it is a problem which deserves attention and, as many of the key points..... the text has been adapted there, so in the spirit we are all on one track.... this is one of the many possible spearheads in foreign policy, but one that we would like to see included. So I see no hierarchy here, no subjugation, no dominance. This is an important point that we wish to underline with this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u49	Mr President, I will also begin by saying a word about the debate that has just opened. For our group, the issues that have been raised are important. That is why I have allowed myself to interrupt our excellent colleague, Mr Crusnière, when he was in the gallery. I wanted to point out that, at the outset, we felt that there was an error in translation in the French text compared to the original Dutch text. It is therefore not a question of talking about the spearhead of foreign affairs policy, but of a lead, a priority. One day, a member of this House ironed out that I was a philosopher, but sometimes it turns out to be very useful. To answer Mr. From Vriendt on the meaning of the priority term, I can say that what is referred to by this text is what is called in philosophy a priority in itself. This is not a priority over other important policies. It is a fundamental element in itself that we are trying to answer. It is true that through this text we have targeted the problem of the terrible situation of people who together constitute a minority community in a defined territory. We felt that there was a need to take the lead and vote for a text that would support these religious and philosophical minorities, as stated in the text. At the end of the previous legislature, a resolution by our group leader Denis Ducrame had been debated and adopted just before the dissolution of the chambers. Three years later, unfortunately, we must note that the fate of religious minorities in this region has not changed favourably, and we wanted, with the motion for a resolution tabled by our colleague Peter Luykx, to stress this subject, to which I know that our Foreign Minister is also attentive. Ladies and gentlemen, while Daesh is living his last weeks, we want, through this resolution, to send a clear message to the current Iraqi government and to the future Syrian authorities. In the territories liberated from the grip of Daesh, Christians, people of other beliefs, in other words religious minorities, must be able to return to their homes safely and rebuild their religious buildings, their churches. More directly, we wish to see compliance with article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I like to read this article again because it introduces an important notion about the public exercise of religion: "Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. This right implies the freedom to change religion or belief, as well as the freedom to manifest one's religion or belief alone or in common, both in public and in private, through teaching, practices, worship and the fulfilment of rites." This principle of freedom of worship, of freedom to believe or not to believe, is fundamental for every human being (men and women) - it is worth stressing in this context - and it is extremely important in the eyes of our political formation. We know that Belgium is committed to it. While the Reform Movement is committed to this principle for every Belgian citizen, we are also committed to it for all other citizens of the world. However, we see - and are not the only ones to make this observation - that the fundamental principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights are currently in danger in much of the Near and Middle East. The Christians of the East are the first to have dispersed in the eastern Mediterranean basin. Now, with the exception of Israel and Lebanon, they live in states whose dominant religion is Islam. We must be careful to ensure that the security of property and people is safeguarded and that attacks against them are punished. Persecutions are not only acts of physical violence, but also pressures, prohibitions and discrimination related to their beliefs. Egypt's Copts demand access to high office in the administration or army, in a society that denies them equal treatment. The Christians of Iraq had to flee the advance of Daesh, leaving the Nineveh plain to take refuge in the autonomous region of Kurdistan. From now on, they no longer have any hope of returning to their original towns and villages. Most sell their land and homes and plan to leave either to Europe or to Canada or Australia. Syria had about one million Christians at the beginning of the conflict, or 4.6 per cent of the population. They are said to be only half, gathered not far from Homs, a valley of Christians, where many have fled, fleeing the areas controlled by Daesh. Palestine is not left behind. The city of Bethlehem had been 90% Christian until the 1960s. At present, the rate of Christians is barely 30 per cent. Only Christians in Lebanon have political power, plus a demographic weight: 39 to 40 per cent of the total population. But the fragility of Lebanon's balance prevents us from believing that the respite that the religious communities in Lebanon are experiencing will be guaranteed in the future. Dear colleagues, Christians in the East live in fear of not being able to remain on their millennial lands, this land where the great monotheistic religion of Christianity was born. Often announced, the disappearance of entire communities becomes a reality. The Arab Middle East is losing the assets of pluralism and its human, cultural and spiritual diversity. In this sense, Mr President, the message that the President of the Moroccan Parliament recently delivered to us at your invitation, concerning the revival of the Euro-Mediterranean area, is an interesting message that we absolutely must hear. As everywhere in the world, we must defend freedom of religion and belief, the protection of the free exercise of religions, in line with our commitment to human rights. The MR will vote with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u50	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the right to freedom of religion or belief is a universal human right, but today we find that some religious communities and minorities are victims of human rights violations. Since the Iraq War in 2003, religious minorities have been affected in the Middle East and North Africa. This was accelerated with the Arab Spring. Since the arrival of IS in 2014, a true religious war has been fought against religious and philosophical minorities. Where there were 1.4 million Christians in Iraq in 2003, today there are only 275 000, a great loss of life, a great loss of cultural heritage as well as a hypothecation of the future of religious minorities in the region, despite their deep roots. This Parliament has already adopted a resolution on this subject during the previous parliamentary term. However, the continuing worsening situation of religious minorities in the Middle East and North Africa, especially since the emergence of the extreme jihadist groups, forces us to retrace this problem and ask for and take further steps. That is why our group will fully support and approve this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, persecution of religious and philosophical minorities in the Middle East has a long history. This was so before the arrival of IS and unfortunately it will also continue to exist after IS. I'm afraid this is the reality. Although the many minorities have just shaped the rich history of this part of the world, tension has increased considerably over the last few decades. That is why it is just as important that the rest of the world, including Belgium, should take a position to defend the rights of all religious and philosophical minorities in the world. The defence of the rights of religious and philosophical minorities must be a spearhead of Belgian international politics, as this resolution puts it. Insisting on UN agencies to develop appropriate programmes to promote tolerance and rehabilitation of victims is necessary for peace in the Middle East. Justice for the victims and persecution of IS are also a prerequisite for lasting peace. Without justice, it is impossible for victims of persecution to be able to live together with other communities. Therefore, as stated in the resolution, Belgium must urge politicians in those countries, regardless of their background, to work on the conditions for a peaceful society, with a strengthening of the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution before us recognises the many complex challenges in this area and also proposes a number of consistent, realistic steps that we can take from Belgium. We have adopted the resolution in committee, but we will also table an amendment following the discussion between my fellow Members. I hope that the majority will be able to support our amendment so that we can vote unanimously in plenary as well. Our amendment seeks to clarify the word 'priority' so that it also corresponds to the statements made by a number of fellow Members following the discussion we have had on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u52	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the main sponsors of this resolution, including Mr Luykx. To the question whether this is a priority or not, the answer is yes. It's a priority, it's a major concern. We see the evolution of an increasingly intolerant world in which certain groups, in this case the Islamic State (IS) and other Islamist groups, consider it unbearable and intolerable to live with other groups that have different religious beliefs and consider them unacceptable or even satanic (as is the case with the Yezidis considered by ISIS as worshippers of Satan). This is a top priority in international relations. I would like to make a few comments. First of all, this is not just the updating of a 2014 resolution, which was tabled by Mr Ducrame, but was already updating a resolution that I had tabled in 2009, adopted in plenary in January 2010, re-tabled as it was in 2014 and which contained such a plagiarism of my resolution that Mr Ducrame had initially withdrawn it to adapt it somewhat. I am not talking about this in order to reopen the debate on the origin and original author of these resolutions and concerns, but simply to show that, since 2010 and despite the resolutions adopted unanimously, the situation of Eastern Christians and other minorities has worsened considerably. Where, in 2010, there were still half a million Christians in Iraq, he probably now counts between one hundred and one hundred and fifty thousand. They were not suffering from any problems in Syria; they are now endangered. The question of the Yezidis did not even arise at that time! Situations in Burma were not known with the Rohingya, or in Indonesia, the Philippines or other countries where these problems have become crucial today and which cause human losses every year because of their philosophical or religious beliefs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very good to adopt motions for resolutions unanimously and to put them on the agenda every three or four years. As far as I am concerned, I would like it to go beyond pure form. Indeed, I sometimes feel that it is primarily a matter of flattering our electorate. In any case, today, efficiency is completely absent, zero. And it is time to realize how crucial and urgent this problem is, that in a number of cases the situation is already irreversible and that in others it is hardly possible to hope that some people can be protected. I note, for example, that the next populations that are at risk of being seriously at risk are probably the Copts of Egypt who are already the subject of very important harassment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to have a report from the Government on the initiatives taken, on the situation, on the populations at risk country by country, conviction by conviction and on the initiatives taken by Belgium, Europe and the international community to finally stem the threat to these populations. This request is not included in the text of the motion for a resolution. Since my presence was required in other committees, unfortunately I was unable to participate in this work. In my view, it is urgent that we seek, finally, beyond words, beyond resolutions, to be effective on the subject and that the serious threat to the international community be removed. Indeed, let us not be fooled! When the Middle East is totally religiously homogeneous, other parts of the world will follow. On the other hand, Europe is also threatened by religious intolerance, tensions, misunderstandings and misunderstandings that could degenerate in a way that is known in other parts of the world. This is a priority issue that deserves much more than a resolution. It should be possible for us to check whether our actions are effective or whether they are just words without any consequences for the populations they are supposed to protect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u53	Thank you, Mr Dallemagne, for supporting the resolution and your intervention. I know that you are also very well-equipped in this area. I share your view that a resolution is, of course, a step, a question or a request, and that we in Parliament should insist that it be followed up. Actions must be linked to this question to the government, to the resolution. I therefore call with you for some sort of progress report, a kind of follow-up that is formally requested in committee. You will receive the support of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u54	Mr Luykx, thank you for your speech. If we have the support of your group, I hope that we will have the support of other groups to take stock of these issues through an annual evaluation report. This would make it possible to verify the evolution - degradation or improvement - of the condition of people harassed because of their religious or philosophical convictions. This would also provide an opportunity to take stock of the political initiatives that have been taken to try to improve their lives. I'm not going to be much longer. The last time we adopted a similar resolution was in April 2014, if I remember correctly. It was a few weeks before the establishment of the al-Baghdadi Caliphate in June 2014. We can see how the situation has deteriorated in the meantime, especially in this part of the world. Item 16 of the resolution was referred to earlier. I have no fundamental problem with point 16. However, I would like to add a point which I believe is important and which is missing in our resolution. What these people are asking for is to be able to live in the regions and countries where they have always lived. I was able to see it and see it several times in Syria and Iraq. What these people demand is, above all, protection on the ground, that local, national and international protection mechanisms be put in place so that they can continue to live there. I hear these people are not going back to their homes. That's not true. Many of them are already returning home and need to be accompanied. Some of these people, for example, are returning to Qaraqosh, a large Christian Syriac city in northern Iraq. These people are returning to cities that are devastated. They ask us for assistance in rebuilding and protection so that we can live there. I think that is what we must try to bring. I am concerned that today there are no serious and credible scenarios to protect these populations in the long term in the countries where they live. It seems essential to me, for the future of these people, that we, together with the local people, with the national governments, particularly Iraq, and with the United Nations Security Council, be able to put in place mechanisms to ensure that these people are better protected through on-site protection mechanisms. It seems to me very important that we also have this in mind. With all these comments, our group will of course support the resolution under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the establishment of the Caliphate Islamic State by the terrorist organisation Daesh in 2014, the religious and philosophical minorities of Iraq and Syria and more recently of Egypt and Libya are living a real nightmare. Amnesty International is talking about ethnic cleansing in this region. In its resolution of 4 February 2016, the European Parliament recognised as genocide the systematic massacre and persecution of religious minorities by Daesh. Families are tortured and murdered if they refuse to lend allegiance to the terrorist group. Women and children are captured to make them sexual slaves. The Islamic State openly boasted that once these women were reduced to slaves, they were sold to the organization's soldiers. Young girls are thus forcibly married to combatants. Minorities in the region were persecuted for their religion, which constituted a crime against humanity under the Statute of the International Criminal Court. Some families manage to escape persecution and escape the claws of the Islamic State and seek refuge in neighbouring countries such as Lebanon and Jordan or in Europe, with all the difficulties we face. In Lebanon, there are nearly 1.5 million refugees in a country with only 6 million inhabitants, which significantly increases tensions between the various communities on the ground. In Europe, shipwrecks in the Mediterranean are legion and have increased further since the closure of the Balkan road. This exodus requires our government to assume its responsibilities, which has not always been the case, as I regret to remind you today. While the text highlights the actions taken by the government in favour of the religious minorities in the region, I cannot forget the refusal of the same government to execute a court order ordering it to welcome a Syrian family from Aleppo. I cannot also endorse this weekend's cover-up around the frigate Louise-Marie in the Mediterranean and her rescue mission. This exodus threatens human lives and also the cultural heritage of this region, the cradle of civilization. Similarly, the movable and immovable property of those who have been able to flee is confiscated directly by the Islamic State, sometimes for resale, which jeopardizes their chances of returning to the country once the war is over. The situation we are experiencing today is reminiscent of the horror of the three recognized genocides of the twentieth century, one of which took place at the gates of the Middle East: the Armenian genocide. This reminder is important because, during this genocide, Eastern Christians were already persecuted – Armenians, but also Arameans and Pontical Greeks. This genocide targeted each of the distinct groups of victims, but within the framework of a single comprehensive approach planned and carried out by one of the Ottoman governments, in the same desire to achieve an ethnic unification of the Ottoman Empire, by eradicating the Christian populations living there. The government agreement provides for special attention for people oppressed because of their religion. It was therefore time for the government to make a commitment to condemn without reservation and with the utmost firmness the killing of Christians and other religious minorities in North Africa, the Near and Middle East, as well as all forms of discrimination and intolerance. In its bilateral contacts with the authorities of those countries, the Government must also constantly draw attention to the precarious situation of religious and philosophical minorities and the need to protect them. Of course, the liberation of Mosul marks a turning point in the ongoing persecutions and is a small glimmer of hope. Of course, the Islamic State is losing ground. However, we must not lose sight of the fact that Daesh still controls sectors in Iraq, in the east and in the centre of Syria. So he still has a lot to fight for. The liberation of Mosul could even provoke a reaction among the jihadists, which would call us to the utmost vigilance in the face of ongoing violence in the region, particularly against minorities. In this respect, I am very pleased with the development of the text in committee. Initially, it aimed to ask the government to condemn the massacre of Christians in Egypt, Syria, Libya and Iraq, thus excluding other religious minorities who were also victims of persecution. The text before us today covers all religious and philosophical minorities in North Africa, the Near and Middle East and more only Christians. It was essential to condemn all violence against all civilian victims, regardless of their convictions. This requirement stems from my group's commitment to secularism, which implies our duty to protect all philosophical convictions and thus to put them on an equal footing. For these reasons, it is clear that our group will support this motion for a resolution. And I agree with Mr Dallemagne's comments when he asks what is ultimately being done with the motions for resolutions. It is important to be aware of this and to work more intensively, not only in Belgium, but with all our European neighbours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u56	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u57	Request/Point 16 22 Wouter De Vriendt cs (1975/7) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u58	The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u59	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Georges Dallemagne, Anne Dedry, Muriel Gerkens, Fatma Pehlivan, Benoît Piedboeuf, Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u60	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2496/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2496/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Miller and Mrs Capoen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u61	Mr President, I refer to our written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal aims to support the campaign 'Make Belgium the country of fair trade', in line with the informal parliamentary group dedicated to this subject, which we have set up here. This text, whose purpose is to bring about consensus, invites the various public authorities, the citizens, but also associations, political decision-makers, the horeca sector, businesses in general, schools, etc., to give fair trade the place it deserves, to participate in the campaign and to ensure that, by 2020, Belgium becomes the country of fair trade. I thank my colleagues, both the majority and the opposition, who co-signed this proposal and who have made it possible to carry out constructive work in committee. It is essential that the House not simply address requests to the government. It also has to take concrete initiatives. [[Brouhahaha]] It is essential that the House be able to set an example. Fair trade and "local and sustainable consumption" should not be restricted to slogans or communications. On the contrary, this objective must be a choice of society, a political choice too – including in the daily life of our institutions. If, from time to time, we can save energy, why not! I think we can go further in everyday life, within the framework of our public institutions. That is why, as chairman of this parliamentary group, I wanted to relay, at the level of this House, the interest of our fellow citizens in ethical consumption. Many public authorities show credible signs of their willingness to use trade as a lever for development and reducing inequalities. For example, in Belgium, nearly 200 municipalities have already received the title of fair trade commune. As a Member of Parliament, I have asked the federal Parliament to set an example and increase its consumption of fair and local products. The intention is that, in future public procurement calls for catering, fair and sustainable variants of as many products as possible can be taken into account. In addition to fair products, we also call on the Federal Parliament to give priority to the purchase of local and sustainable products, i.e. products from the short circuit chains, thus favouring the fair remuneration of producers. The fair breakfast organized, each year, in the peristyle is a success but it is a matter of making this initiative the norm between our walls. The House's governance committee has already been open to the question and has taken decisions concerning, among other things, certain juices, coffee, tea or certain wines or sodas that are proposed to us. These requests were also relayed by my group in the Political Renewal Working Group. They are now included in the consensus points, which are therefore waiting for a practical transposition. This is point 59. I am convinced that this choice must be made out of political coherence. Of course, it is not a question of competing with our companies in the North and the South. Not at all. On the other hand, it is a question of ensuring that our economic exchanges are fair, that they do not maintain or amplify inequalities, poverty or even conflicts, the same problems that we condemn through parliamentary resolutions, in particular the one we mentioned earlier. It is not free trade that must become the rule but the right trade. The aim of this text is therefore to bring an additional stone to a complex building, making Belgium the country of fair trade and short circuits with a series of numerical objectives. Fair trade and local trade are growing in popularity every year. The House must therefore be part of this process and even a lead. I am therefore very pleased that this resolution is being submitted to us today and that we have been able to obtain a large majority to vote on this text. Thank you all for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u63	Mr President, it is a surprise that I am on the list of speakers, but I would like to take the floor. Of course, the CD&V Group supports this resolution for various reasons. A maximum number of players will be involved and priority will be given to products that set the fair trade criteria in public procurement. There is also a call for the short chain, which is also quite new, and for the purchase of clothing that needs to be produced socially. The most important thing is to seek coherence between the different levels of government. It is no secret that several governments have already tried to give substance to the concept of fair trade, commerce équitable, fair trade. In the different languages, it means something else. It is important to create clarity, especially for consumers who have been confused in recent years by the different labels that have seen the light of day. With the labels ethical, bio, fair trade and socially responsible one tries to convince the consumer to buy a specific product, while he does not know clearly what it means. The most important element of this resolution and the biggest challenge is to look beyond the various levels of government for criteria and coherence. This is an important challenge and it is a good thing that we in Parliament are asking for clarity in it and hopefully we will be able to come up with legislation on this in the future. We fully support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, without fair trade, where producers are properly paid for their products and labour, it is impossible to increase world prosperity and reduce inequality. Without prosperity growth and inequality reduction, there can be no real impact on the major challenges of this world, namely poverty, discrimination against women and minorities, refugee flows and climate change. As a rich society, it is our moral duty to give other societies the opportunity to prosper and to give them the support they need to achieve that prosperity. In the long term, fair trade should no longer be a separate form of trade. All trade must become fair trade. The government and the administration at all levels, Mrs Van Hoof, has already spoken about it, and there are still problems there. Such a leading role is to ensure that their purchases comply as far as possible with the principles of fair, sustainable trade, but also to coordinate and strengthen existing and future initiatives of this kind. This will also be necessary in order to increase the Belgian commitment to the objectives of sustainable development, which has remained inadequate so far. Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is a good step in this direction. My group will fully support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I became a Member of Parliament in 1999, we started working on fair trade products. Many of you, were with me at that time and discovered at the cafeteria the arrival of coffees, juices, chocolates and bananas, in short fair trade products. We have also begun to work in Parliament on definitions. One wondered whether it would not be interesting to include in the law what a fair trade product is, to introduce into public procurement provisions clauses and criteria allowing for the selection of fair trade products so that they do not systematically lose markets because, if the only criterion is the lowest price, necessarily, our "fair" coffee did not win the markets. Then we got rolled in the flour. The "one" is collective: the services of the House and the questure were confronted with public contracts that were not well written or well written and whose criteria were not sufficiently clear. As a result, we found ourselves with products that did not come from fair trade, but their names resembled them. It is true, Mrs Van Hoof, that, until 2010–2012, we have worked on redefinition without ever leading to solutions, to a common text adopted in Parliament. I am, of course, pleased that we are coming back with an intention to find definitions and criteria to ensure that we have access to these products and that public bodies, including the House, are committed to using these products again for what they represent. Let us not make the same mistakes as in the past! We have matter and things have also evolved since then. Now we can no longer engage without going through the act and missing the check again. I see the work of this informal group. We have had the opportunity, on several occasions, to meet with actors from NGOs and fair trade actors. Consideration has also been given to products that are difficult to manage, even if we want to do so in a fair, sustainable and local manner. Take, for example, cocoa or palm oil with current attempts to produce, develop and market palm oil that would be sustainable and possibly fair. At the same time, it is clear that while some sectors, while some economic actors are trying to develop this product, they are caught in a more collective market and in production patterns that undermine local natural resources, which are adjacent to palm oil plants. So we are really in a very complicated, very difficult thinking dynamic, which goes beyond simply buying products that can now be identified as part of fair trade. I believe that the work of this informal group is important and should continue. With regard to the resolution which is the emanation of part of this work, it is obviously important to adopt and implement it. I just wanted to draw your attention to this definition and the relationship between fair remuneration, local production and sustainable production. These three concepts are obviously intimately linked. If one of these parameters is removed, the other two are inevitably weakened and there is a risk of harm to the actors that are being safeguarded through fair trade. Fair trade is clearly understood in North-South relations. It is also in the relations and development of the South-South economy and in the development of the North-North economy that we must be able to appreciate it, develop it and allow at the same time the fair remuneration of production, the preservation and concern of the resources that must be renewable as well as a reinvestment of the benefits in the development of the communities, but a reinvestment that these producing and local communities choose themselves without being subject to the choices of some multinationals who say: "I will invest in a hospital, I will invest in a school and the local community that produces the material that I will take will only be satisfied or happy with the hospital that I will come to finance at home." Fair trade is also collaborative and participatory development, with the involvement of the various actors. I therefore hope that Parliament will eventually have sufficient consumption and stimulate other public authorities, regardless of the level of power, to favour the use of these products.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u66	Mr President, I was not inscribed as a speaker, but after my colleague Gerkens' statement, I would like to say that, with all due respect, I have the impression that we can do better in the House, with regard to what is proposed to us in the afternoons of plenary sitting. I have nothing against what is proposed to us, but frankly, when I see the quality of our country's producers – and I am talking about North-North relations too – we can do better. It is true that an effort is made at the level of beers. We can say it and my neighbor, if he were there, would confirm it. On the other hand, when it comes to cheeses, we can really do better. We do this in our communities, including by purchasing Oxfam products that are more focused on North-South relationships. I like to adopt resolutions. Often, all are happy to see them adopted, but they are not followed by many effects. You have an essential role to play here and Mr. Registrar too. If we could count on your effective support, it would really please us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u67	In fact, I take note of your statements and I am going to the other members of the governance committee to reflect on them and give them an adequate response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u68	Mr President, the N-VA Group will support this motion for a resolution, following the adoption of a number of amendments relating to important substantive comments. For us, it is fundamental that the text respects the powers of the Länder and the local level. Thanks to our amendments, this was also made clear. Since international cooperation has so far been a fragmented competence, it is important to identify the level of action that is needed. Our group therefore very much welcomes the call in the proposal for the Flemish Government to take over from the Federal Government for official clothing, namely respect for the Bangladesh charter on safe and dignified textile products. The text is also in line with our government's SDG-driven policy on sustainable development, as demonstrated during the presentation a few days ago of the Voluntary National Review on the state of play of the SDGs at the UN in New York. In international cooperation, the government places the emphasis on sustainable economic development in the South. Anyone who says "sustainable" says "honestly." Those who say economic development say trade. We therefore welcome the opposition's support for this approach and the fact that we have been able to adopt the motion for a resolution unanimously in committee. We hope that this can also be repeated in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u69	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u70	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u71	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1380: Dirk Van der Maelen, Stéphane Crusnière, Karin Temmerman, Alain Top, Meryame Kitir, Fatma Pehlivan, Hans Bonte - 2353: Dirk Van der Maelen. The Committee on External Relations has decided on proposal No. 1380 as a basic text and proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (1380/4) The Committee on External Relations has agreed to choose proposal No 1380 as the basic text and proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1380/4) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u72	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 7 July 2017 was, as far as I am concerned, a very sad day. In New York, 122 countries, almost two thirds of the members of the United Nations, adopted a global ban on nuclear weapons by treaty, but Belgium was not a party to the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really sad that our country broke down with a tradition of over a hundred years. I'm just gonna take a grip on history. After the horror of World War I, it was Belgium that took the lead at the international scene for the establishment of a treaty on the prohibition of chemical weapons in a war. After the horrors in the trenches in West Flanders, gas attacks and so on, Belgium took the lead in approving the first treaty for a global ban on such weapons, which caused many casualties not only among the military but among the citizens. Anyone who knows his history knows that the gas attacks also affected many citizens, because the wind was spinning at some point. Belgium took the lead in the fight for the ban. In the 1970s, it was also the Belgian diplomacy that joined forces with those of other countries to establish a non-proliferation treaty for nuclear weapons. It was our diplomats who wrote in a limited circle of diplomats to the final text. In the 1990s, the last decade of the last century, it was Belgian diplomacy, supported by the Chamber and the Senate, which led a treaty on a global ban on the use of landmines. In the first decade of this century, Belgium did the same around cluster bombs. Again and again, my fellow Members, with the support of this Chamber, and then with the support of the Senate, our Foreign Minister and our Minister for Defence went on the international scene to try, backed up by our diplomacy, to ban weapons that affect not only military but also civilians. On July 7, 2017, our absence was painful and incomprehensible to me. Both myself, of sp.a. and other opposition parties are not bound by what is in the coalition agreement. I'm going to read out two passages from the coalition agreement you approved. I read the first passage: "This coalition agreement explicitly endorses all credible and targeted efforts to achieve effective and balanced disarmament in the world, both in the nuclear and conventional fields. I would like to draw your attention to the word "Nuclear'. I read the second passage: "We continue to work for international initiatives aimed at banning or at at least improving the control of weapons systems with an arbitrary range and/or excessive impact on citizens." The opposition is not bound by this coalition agreement, but you have all approved it. I must confess that I do not understand why all the majority parties in the committee ignored our resolution calling for a step towards a treaty that would phase out nuclear weapons in time, together with other countries in New York. I'm sorry we weren't there. I have here the statement of the UN Secretary-General. It ends with expressing hope: "Now that the treaty is in place, it will enter into force as soon as 50 countries have signed it. On 7 July 2017, 122 countries signed the Convention. It will therefore not be long before the Treaty enters into force. I hope that this Chamber will then be able to agree with what the Secretary-General proposes, that we should participate in the dialogue between the initiators and those countries which have not supported the initiative, even though we have not negotiated and others have signed it. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the new political year, I will again present to you a resolution in which I will ask you that Belgium join the Treaty. Bearing in mind the groundbreaking tradition of our country in the creation of other treaties and taking into account the coalition agreement, which you yourself have approved, I hope you will support the global ban on weapons of mass destruction, which affects civilians alongside military personnel, and will allow Belgium to accede to the Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u74	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject the motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u75	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u76	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u77	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2530/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2530/3) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u78	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole will take place tomorrow. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u79	V Earrings submitted by: Proposals submitted by: - 2282: Carina Van Cauter, Sonja Becq, Philippe Goffin, Sarah Smeyers - 681: Carina Van Cauter, Patrick Dewael, Egbert Lachaert, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu - 789: Sarah Smeyers, Sophie De Wit, Goedele Uyttersprot, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Gilles Foret, Philippe Goffin. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these legislative proposals. I suggest that you have a single discussion on these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u80	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Calomne, Mr Foret and Mr Brotcorne. They shall all refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all it is appropriate to thank Minister None for the space he has given us to sit and exchange views on this subject with a number of fellow Members. In doing so, the ideological contradictions have occasionally been put aside, which is sometimes necessary. He has also given us the opportunity to continue working on these texts and has provided support by a number of professors who have not only provided their expert support on the subject of debt instruments, but who have sometimes stuck to their own ideas. This has undoubtedly enriched the debate and the many Saturdays we have worn together. By the way, I welcome Mrs Casman to the gallery. It would be inappropriate to forget about the actors in the field, and there were quite a few notaries, such as the notary. I am thinking in particular of Mrs Charlotte Aughuet, who has contributed her expert contribution. Representatives of the bar have also made their professional knowledge in this field available to us enrichingly. As a result, we were able to do what we were thinking: we no longer let Napoleon determine how our inheritance law is structured, how the legal devolution should be mandatory. On the other hand, on the basis of a photograph of society, we are trying to modernise our inheritance rights somewhat and to align them more closely with what is in society and with what citizens expect mainly from the legislator and what they are doing. We have indeed started from that photograph of society and, not only on the basis of figures, we have seen that our society has evolved in a complex way. The way people live together has changed greatly over the years. Think of the evolution of marriages. In 1990 there were 64 554 marriages. In 2014, there were only 39 878. This has taught us that long marriages do not necessarily give rise to marriage more often, but that people often choose to live together and, if necessary, choose to enter into a legal social agreement. Now you will be wondering whether that has anything to do with what the legislator should do. After all, we have changed little or nothing about the legal devolution. Of course, that has to do with inheritance law, when people do not live together in a marriage or when children are not always born out of the same relationship. In their legacy, parents or partners sometimes want to take into account children with whom they have a social-effective relationship or a partner with whom they have lived together for more than ten or twenty years. Moreover, today we find that unlike before, when marriages or relationships lasted longer, partners often switch. One in two marriages ends in divorce. Afterwards, repartnering is carried out. Children are born out of a new relationship or not. This means that partners wish to settle their legacy differently than they did some 30 years ago. It is also nice to note that we all live longer. Our life expectancy has indeed increased. At the time of Napoleon, it was an average of forty years. Today, on average, we are 80 years old. What does that have to do with inheritance? Well, the moment we inherit is quite logical at a later time in our lives. It often happens that when people are called to a legacy, they no longer need it so much themselves, but that they want to give it to the next generation, sometimes completely, sometimes partially. Today, however, the legislator imposes strict restrictions on this, so that there was also a yard here that we wanted to deal with. A final remarkable observation is that inheritances are still and always recurring sources of conflict, of unexpected problems, and that people seem paradoxical about the wider freedom people want when it comes to being called upon to make a legacy, or at the moment they themselves expect more legal certainty. We must therefore reconcile, on the one hand, more freedom and, on the other hand, more legal certainty: stricter and more freer. That was not easy, but I think we have succeeded in doing so with the text before us. The present text provides for a reform of inheritance law which may not be revolutionary, but which in any case involves a necessary evolution in view of the needs of our society. I have already outlined the three main lines of action. There's gonna be more freedom. There will also be the possibility to act conflict-solvingly, please in advance, which means that there is a need for an opportunity to make an heir agreement, still prohibited until now. I have been taught that this is also from the time of Napoleon, when it was assumed that, if people knew that they were being called to a legacy, they would dare to speed up the process of death. That is why there is still a ban on inheritance agreements today. However, we assume that agreements can work conflict-solving and that they should be possible in a socially adapted inheritance right. There will also be more legal certainty. Legislation will be simplified wherever possible. It is also our practice to make the legislation not unnecessarily complicated. That is also a common thread of blue More freedom, fellow Members. Today we know three categories of reserve heirs: the children; the surviving husband, wife or partner; and the parents when there are no children. Since one can only divide a legacy once, this means that, if one wants to build in more freedom, the children's reserve is limited. They still retain a reserved part, but that part will in all cases be limited to half. This automatically gives more freedom to take into account any family situation. I repeat, this law obliges no one. She's just giving more freedom. We haven't touched the legal devolution. If parents decide not to make donation testaments, then the inheritance will still come equally to the children born within that marriage or family. We will not change that. We only allow more freedom to find a suitable solution in every family situation. The reserve of the ascendants is replaced by a maintenance claim for an inheritance, but only in case of need. This maintenance claim is also limited in size, i.e. one quarter of the estate by line, on the mother and father side. This also offers more opportunities for those who actually live together. If people live together for ten, twenty or thirty years and one of the two partners dies, and despite the fact that they have expressed the will to give their legacy to their partner, then it is no longer of this time that there is still a reserve for the benefit of parents, so that they can still claim part of the inheritance. I believe that we should be able to build more freedom into this too. The same applies to people who are married under the system of separation of property and who wish to grant their inheritance to a distant cousin or cousin, or charity. They too, or their partner, are facing a number of limitations today. They are written away by lifting the reserve. A third aspect is that a reserve that exists today in kind becomes a reserve in value. This gives more freedom to assign, for example, the business to one of the children. An example given during the discussion by one of our experts was that of a bed and breakfast, which is assigned to the children who worked the case together with them during the life of the parents. A reserve in kind would necessarily mean selling that bed and breakfast, or a bakery, with the result that if the reserved inheritance of the other children had to be paid effectively, this would be a compensation in cash. There is therefore more freedom of access, also by defining the reserve in kind in a reserve in value. I would like to confirm once again that this does not mean that the children would be deprived of their reserved inheritance, but that there will be more freedom of disposal for those who wish to settle their legacy. The overall inheritance agreement between parents and children, which will be possible in the future, means that one can search for a subjective solution prior to death and write a tailor-made solution for the family. For example, a partial generational leap can be achieved, or stepchildren can be included in the agreement; in the case of specific problems in a family, agreements can be made that avoid conflicts afterwards. That's exactly what a lot of parents want. Their main concern is to avoid arguing between the children, about money then, when they will no longer be there. This is something that one often wants to avoid at all costs. That will also be possible in the future, by means of a global heir agreement, but that does not mean that a punctual agreement would be excluded. This will also be possible in the future, both on the contribution and on the reduction. It is also important to be able to make an agreement for consideration on a particular part of his estate. I would certainly like to mention the work of Jan Bael here. If I'm right, that was the subject of his doctoral thesis. So this problem has been going on for a long time, but there is certainly a solution for a lot of cohabiting couples who want to buy an undivided property, take care of each other or think they have found the solution in the terms of growth. If the clause provides for the termination of the contract to be possible in life, for example through the spokesperson of the relationship, then one would be confronted with a void agreement. In addition to the loss that one has to deal with, one would also be faced with distant family members who come to claim a legacy, when one assumed that one had taken care of one another. In future, we will no longer be able to take that risk and securely and certainly conclude such an agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the balance between the surviving and the children is concerned, we have carefully avoided matrimonial property rights. That'll be an assignment for later. I hope that we will be able to find a consensus in the same way, including with regard to the necessary changes to matrimonial property law, but we have nevertheless addressed several points which are a source of many conflicts. It often happens that children from an earlier marriage come into conflict with the longest-lived from a subsequent relationship. Sometimes the reason is understandable. For example, children do not expect the second partner to be able to ask for a discount on goods already donated to them before marriage, subsequent or second marriage, and, where appropriate, to shift usufruct to the second partner. That is something that is not expected and which is felt unjust. That is why this proposal seeks to amend this rule in such a way that the survivor can no longer ask for a reduction in the donations made before his or her marriage. In order to safeguard the balance between the children and the longest-lived, we have also ensured that the children's inheritance remains unspent as much as possible with the enjoyment of the longest-lived husband. It was looking for this, occasionally, difficult balance. However, I believe that this, too, is a special contribution to avoiding conflicts. Finally, there is the conversion of usufruct, which will be possible at the first request when the surviving spouse comes in conjunction with non-common children. This, too, avoids incidents and makes procedures unnecessary. As the outcome of these procedures is almost predictable, it seems appropriate to avoid such conflicts by adjusting the law, which we are proposing here. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of providing more legal certainty and not making it unnecessarily complicated, which can also be simple. That's why we put a number of suspicions into the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u82	I am sorry to interrupt you, Mrs van Cauter, but I would just like to say that we will have less light for ten minutes, after which we will have the full light all evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u83	I thought this was a sign that I had to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u84	No, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u85	I'm trying to get on with my speed. Colleagues, I was just talking about the suspicions. As a conjecture, only if descendants have received a gift is suspected that this is about an advance on the inheritance and that they are suspected to bring it in. That does not mean that parents or legatees would be excluded from making gifts outside of inheritance. They can, of course, continue to do so, but then it will have to be made very clear, in the absence of which, according to the law, there will be a presumption of input. For other heirs there is a presumption that there is an exemption from contribution. That makes sense, because if something is specifically made available to third parties, there is no equality between certain heirs in mind and there is no presumption of input there. Therefore, this does not constitute a legal presumption of input towards other heirs, but an exemption from it. Please note that this should not be confused with a reduction, which will still apply in these cases. A second aspect that has been addressed and which I would like to mention is the way in which gifts to be applied are appreciated. Today there are different rules for this and it is important to know whether it is about movable or immovable property. Real estate must be brought into the mass in kind and this means that the reference value is set on the day of distribution. That is the value that will be taken into account in order to proceed with the distribution. With regard to movable property, the value shall be taken into account on the day of the donation. In practice, this often gives rise to unexpected problems: when parents have given the same value to the two children at a certain time, to one moving property and to the other, at the time of their death and the distribution that children are faced with a charge due by the person who has received property, because there is indeed an added value to be taken into account. That is why, in the future, we will appreciate moving and real estate in the same way as regards the contribution, namely the value on the day of the donation, because that is the moment when the good leaves the future legacy, and indexed until the time of death, insofar as full ownership and property are available. This is logical: an indexing of the value of the donation in terms of the valuation at the time of the contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, some practical issues have also been resolved. Let us think about the allocation of grants to the global and not to the individual reserve. And so there are many other punctual elements to mention from the bill, but that would lead us back to the discussion in committee and that is not the intention today. Finally, the proposal provides for a transitional period of one year. Why is it a year? That seems like a long time. Well, it makes sense, it is indeed a larger reform and that means that practice must be able to prepare, adapt, prepare. Let us think about the register of inheritance agreements. It will have to be possible to provide for such agreements to be registered. It will also take some study work to put this into practice. It is also a one-year transitional period because of donations and property plans that have taken place in the past in order to allow everyone to choose, as at the time with the reform of matrimonial property law, whether this donation is to be subject to the old or the new valuation rules. It is not the intention of this law to hinder the expectations of citizens who have already planned or appropriate their assets as legislators. We also want to give them the opportunity to put things right. Hence the transitional period, but also to allow us to continue to consult and reach a consensus on matrimonial property law, so that the two amendments could come into force together. Finally, of course, there is also the tax aspect. When citizens ask me a question about inheritance law and inheritance law reform, they very often have taxation in mind. Now, think of it as an outstretched hand, this question to the Regions to avoid penalising the freedom offered today. On the other hand, we ask the Regions to make the necessary changes to the legislation as far as the inheritance tax is concerned. I will conclude with a word of thanks to my three other colleagues Philippe Goffin, Sonja Becq and Sarah Smeyers, with whom I have worked very well. I thank them for their constructive attitude. As I said, leaving out ideological contradictions and seeking solutions that serve the social interest is what we have done. It's important to us that our DNA is reflected in what's ahead today. More freedom, more freedom of access, more security, that means more legal certainty. This is, of course, reflected in this proposal. Also progress, in the sense that we have not been dealing with ourselves, but that we as legislator have tried to bring the law into line with what is perceived socially as necessary. Minister, I started by thanking you, but you were not here at the time. You came in a little later. I would like to reiterate that I thank you for the space you have given us to work together and to come up with a broad-based proposal. I would like to take advantage of your presence to thank you once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my position has not changed since the long debate we have had in committee. I would say at the outset that the negative effects on children's rights are too heavy and that they are not such as to compensate for the few positive points contained in the present text, such as the modernisation of certain aspects, simplification and the possibility of consenting to pacts on future successions. In this case, the problem lies in the fact that the majority did not want to hear the arguments, for the most part, arising from Francophone considerations emanating from the opposition or from experts who were interviewed in committee. I really felt that there was a debate in the North and a debate in the South with extremely different visions and philosophy. While, in many respects, this text may seem more technical than political, it has become clear that there is a fracture resulting, as I said, from several conflicting values: on the one hand, the protection of the surviving spouse and the freedom of the deceased future to dispose of his or her property and, on the other hand, the right of children resulting from the bond of filiation and the principle of equality between them, de facto excluding any form of preference given, for example, to elders or boys, as it was sometimes customary to do at another time. In this case, it can be said that each of these principles is valid, but what is wrong is when one takes over the other; that is where it hurts because in the bill, in this respect and without concession, it is done at the expense of the inheritance rights of the children. Ladies and gentlemen, you will therefore not be surprised that I believe that this text breaks the balance, first of all, by fixing a reserve equivalent to half the inheritance of the estate, regardless of the number of heirs. The proposal does not take into account the different family structures, depending on the number of children who make up the family. In fact, the text gives rise to a kind of single-child premium which would be advantaged by twice as much as a sibling of two children and even triple as compared to a sibling of three children. In this case, as the Council of State had considered, this rule remains problematic with regard to the principle of equality. In addition, to give the tester more autonomy, children's reserves are also reduced considerably. Thus, for a sibling of three children facing a spouse in second marriage, the bill reduces their share of estate by a third. We believe that the children's reserve should remain as it is at present, in the same proportion. It is for this reason that we tabled an amendment to return to the current system which had the merit of taking into account family structures without creating too unequal distributions. In addition to being unbalanced, the text promotes unequal situations between children, since it will now be possible to benefit one child up to five times more than another. Do you find it normal that, without any adequate motivation, a child can receive three quarters of the estate and his brother or sister only a quarter? I was wondering why, but the text allows it. It goes in the opposite direction of greater equality within the family. This is all the less normal when the current system already allows to give three times more to one heir than to another. To base their reform, the authors of the proposal - you have reminded us on several occasions - are based on studies carried out by the King Baudouin Foundation which show that the Belgians would like more flexibility to regulate their heritage. However, this thirst for freedom does not seem as obvious to me as it seems, since it is clear from the same study that only 24% of citizens actually prepare for their succession. If we analyse these texts, this means that 76% of Belgians, three quarters of Belgians, do not make a will and therefore do not derogate from the succession provided for by the law. This figure of three quarters obviously indicates the need for freedom that the Belgians would have. Alternatives were proposed, however, to consider the rights involved in order not to unduly impede the reservative rights of children, while allowing the future deceased to have more autonomy over his or her heritage, but nothing was retained. I recall that the League of Families had spoken of a reserve part in favour of relational children. So moving towards such a system would have met the objective of taking into account new family patterns such as stepchildren, etc. However, the reserve shares of the children are not reduced. There have also been amendments tabled by my colleagues on the CDH aimed at reducing the possibility of overadvancing one of his children over the others. Finally, the experts interviewed advocated reservations to a lesser extent than the current ones, but which had the merit of varying according to the number of children who were called to succeed. Unfortunately, these alternatives were not retained. In the face of individual freedom, an apparently absolute priority of the authors of the bill, children's rights and equality between them are thus greatly endangered. Secondly, the new rules that modify the reporting and reduction mechanism, which must now be valued in all circumstances, also leave no room for children's heirs, since it is no longer possible for the child to recover the property given in violation of his or her rights, and more particularly in violation of his or her reservation. To justify this rule, it is emphasized the property right of the gratis person and the legal insecurity that would be generated by a potential return of the property in kind. On the other hand, it is also the right of ownership of the disposer that is affected. In this case, the Conseil d'Etat is very critical in considering that the proposed law restricts the right of ownership and the autonomy of the possessor, this time by providing for an absolute prohibition of the possessor to report or a reduction in kind. This provision in principle is not justified and is not proportionate, since no exception mechanism has been considered by the majority. However, the surviving spouse benefits from mechanisms that are unchanged in this proposal, which enable him or her to maintain certain ties with regard to the importance of maintaining certain property in the family. For example, preferential allocation, the concrete reservation and the right of veto to the conversion of usufruct on preferential goods are considered. Again, in the balance, it hurts. The balance is broken. While I am in favour of the unification of the report and the reduction, which simplifies the task of practitioners, reporting or reducing only in value is still an additional element that will diminish the rights of children.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u87	The authors believed that there were mechanisms that would compensate for the reduction in the reserve share for children, but it was really powder in the eyes. Indeed, these provisions do not have any positive effects, either simply because their scope is extremely limited - as the Council of State noted in the second and third points of its opinion - or, ironically, because they cause adverse effects on the child. Moreover, the experts did not chew their words by calling certain mechanisms "false". The attempt to balance the interests of the children and the surviving spouse is also futile. Finally, we support the introduction of rules on future succession pacts. It should be pointed out, however, that, since games of influence are present within families, solid guarantees must be established so that all parties can, knowingly, consent to the pact - knowing in particular what they renounce. To this end, amendments by the majority have removed some, but unfortunately not all, concerns. We regret the lack of attention paid to the protection of the weaker parties in this type of contract. The optional nature of the individual meeting between the notary and the parties seems to us to be less protective of those who must take the step. If we hear, and even share, the intention of the authors of the proposal to integrate the evolution of the new family models - I am thinking of the example already mentioned of so-called relational children - it cannot, of course, result in a situation that would be unbalanced for them. We consider that, in this case, the various balances have not been found and that this text overemphasizes the freedom and autonomy of the tester, to such an extent that they are achieved by undermining solidarity between generations. It leads to a situation that is very uneven between the children and the surviving spouse. The latter, in the event of a second marriage, could raise up to 85 per cent of the family's assets. By the way, I regret that the reform has been watered down since the reform of the matrimonial regimes that is being prepared should have been analysed in conjunction with it because these areas are intimately linked. In any case, I doubt that this text will have the effect of reducing the numerous conflicts over inheritance. On the contrary, since these conflicts stem mainly from perceived inequality between children or from the relationship between the children of a previous union and the new partner of the deceased future, the text will only reinforce disputes within families.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u88	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, inheritance law is no longer able to respond to what people expect of it and to changes in attitudes and family relations. It is therefore no longer in a position to preserve peace in families, whether traditional or not. These sentences are not mine, but come from the statement made by the King Baudouin Foundation. We are all interested in inheritance rights. Everyone inherits one day and everyone transmits his or her heritage. In Latin, successio means "action to take the place" or "supplement". We could make a parallel with politics, but it's another debate. The law of succession is a right that organizes the economic effects of each citizen's death on the lives of others. It is also a right that gives life to the transmission of assets. If we believe Molière or, more seriously, some practitioners, the law of succession, it is also, alas, the law of conflict. This is probably due to the fact that, in terms of family assets, ownership and ownership are difficult to dissociate. History often allows for a better understanding of the reasons why a provision is being adopted today. I am not going to crush any historical reminders, but I will mention some of them about the major trends in our law. First of all, Roman law took over the main element, that of the will. There was a real predominance of succession by will over legal succession. We know that our current law is heavily influenced by Roman law. Second, Anglo-Saxon law is different. It is the primogeniture ab intestate on all lands and the testamentary freedom for the rest that prevail. Finally, for French customary law, it is the predominance of legal devolution over the devolution of the will, with the clear preservation of property in the family, the privilege of primogeniture and masculinity. The French Revolution then went through it with all its principles and will greatly change conceptions. It is a real and strong break with the old right. Estate law is seen as a fragmentation of family fortunes, a distribution of wealth. This allowed the continuation of the privileges characteristic of the Old Regime to be broken. It is also the time for the abolition of inheritance privileges. It is therefore the predominance of the law, of equality over freedom. A wave of codifications occurred in 1800. In our country, we think it's just the Napoleonic Code, but that's not quite right. We have to look beyond our borders. There is a real codification in many European countries and we note that the rules relating to the devolution of inheritance remain very conservative and very close to what the law had built over the centuries. So these are not real breaks. At the end of the 20th century, there was once again a desire for convergence in European law, but it was once again noted that this remained one of the niches of law, where the rules of inheritance devolution had difficulty being harmonised throughout Europe and States' particularities were preferred to be retained. Our country has also evolved, of course. In 1804, the principles of the French Civil Code applied. Subsequently, our law evolved into two major periods: that of filiation which took place in 1887 and that of the revolution linked to the evolution of rights relating to the situation of the surviving spouse. It is the famous 1981 law that will give more rights and protections to the surviving spouse. This law was part of the evolution of society, in the evolution of the estate of the surviving spouse, in view of the growing gap between the position taken by the surviving spouse within the family, with a particular emblematic element: the right to housing security for the surviving spouse. Two factors have strongly guided this reform, which is still affecting us today: to guarantee the surviving spouse the same life course to the extent possible and to take into account the evolution of the sociological fact which makes the so-called lineage family in recession to the benefit of the nuclear family. Since then, on many occasions, the doctrine has fed into the debates of successions by stressing the points of difficulty and suggesting new developments related to that of society in general. Several points raised by the doctrine over the years have been taken up in this proposal: the often difficult coexistence between usufruct and nude ownership, which poses a problem in the distribution of burdens and, more importantly, in the presence of so-called recomposed families, the lack of flexibility. There is no choice between a broad usufruct and a limited full property. Yet, there too, the circumstances are very different. The law we are debating today allows for more flexibility. I'm coming back to the King Baudouin Foundation's study. Both those of 1997 and 2016 recalled a constant concern of the population to provide legal protection to the surviving spouse without neglecting the transmission to children. Succession allows the continuation of the person of the deceased, a continuity between life and death. She's looking for the future. The heirs of the first order are children or grandchildren. This feature is also reinforced in this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u89	On the one hand, the removal of the ascendant reserve is a real novelty. It is compensated by the granting of a maintenance claim, which takes account of a new reality: the increase in the transfer of money to ascendants, in the context of longer lifespan and the explosion of medical expenses and home help. On the other hand, I will mention the possibility of generational leaps through future succession pacts, for example. The right of inheritance is now intended to allow the transfer of property to the next generation, but also to ensure an equivalent material situation and guaranteed to the surviving spouse, married or, through this law, legal cohabitant. The next logical step is to grant inheritance rights to the surviving partner. As I said, it was also logical to take into account that, in the event of a de facto cohabitation, there is a choice of total freedom, and therefore, no desire for enhanced protection emanating from this bill. As we can see, the legislative amendments have so far focused mainly on the determination of the persons to succeed, so as to reflect in succession the changes that have taken place in our society, with the family in sociological terms, but also the development of the families recomposed. These are made less dominant by the family's allocation of property. As it affects the way in which the succession is distributed, shared and liquidated, this proposal goes beyond the mere determination of the persons to succeed. Let's talk about the transformation of the in-kind division of estates into value-sharing. This was particularly important to us. In-kind sharing is only feasible in the case of large and diverse estates, which is rarely the case. The consequence is that, in practice, rules are usually subject to derogations in order to allow for this sharing in values. The text clarifies things here once and for all. The reserve in values rather than in kind had the effect of sometimes hindering the transfer of certain property on satisfactory conditions of legal certainty, particularly for third-party purchasers. The choices made by the proposal are bold and clear. Maybe not everyone will like them. It is the fruit of choice. We have tried to find the widest possible consensus. We have not achieved this and we have seen it during the committee's work, even though several points of this proposal have been the subject of feelings, opinions or even positive choices, at least in the context of the article-by-article vote and not on the whole provision. I'll say a word about the reserve we've already talked about. Finally, the reservation is not to be found in the rights of the deceased but rather in his duties. The choice has been made to maintain the value - and even reduced - which shows the will of the legislator not to give the testator a power, a total capacity, an all-power. On the contrary, one wanted to make a mix between this freedom mentioned, requested, demanded over the years and this need also to guarantee a filiation within the framework of this devolution of the heritage. The way in which his succession was organized has also evolved. The will is still there, but the real novelty is the generalisation and clarification of the rules on the future succession pact which was already possible, but which was particularly difficult to implement and which was not very clear. Today's text allows for greater clarity within families. This is not an easy subject, but by putting the possibility on the table of each other, of families, to be able to talk about it, we may be able to resolve some potential conflicts within them. In conclusion, I will tell you that I have found a short text, rest assured, by Fabienne Tainmont on Belgian inheritance law published in October 2010 in The Electronic Journal of Comparative Law. What did she say seven years ago?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, "Apart from the likely allocation of inheritance rights to the surviving legal cohabitant, there is no real political will in Belgium to reform other aspects of inheritance law. Undoubtedly, the task seems to be colossal, tedious on a technical level and not ostensible on the electoral level." Fortunately, this proposal is a lie, thanks to the full cooperation of the government. Minister, thank you for the Saturday mornings, when you started your battery of experts to put the reflections into practice. I would also like to thank Mrs Van Cauter, Mrs Becq and Mrs Smeyers, as well as the opposition, for, as I often say in the Committee on Justice, although we do not agree, the members of the opposition do not hesitate, through their knowledge and expertise, to try to change the texts. It doesn't always work, but sometimes it does! And if it works, it really makes sense. I wanted to tell Mr Brotcorne, Mr Brotcorne. Van Hecke who is not here and Mrs Özen. At this stage, it is obviously impossible to predict what the citizens will do with these new freedoms, these new possibilities. What is certain to date is that the flexibility of the formulas must allow tailor-made solutions to the diversity of situations that can be encountered. It is now up to all of us, the citizens, to give this new field of freedom the reliefs of life that will suit it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u90	Mr President, first of all I would like to stress that I am not the first to say that the proposal before us has been drawn up after very intensive cooperation between Members of Parliament, experts, too much to mention, but there are already two important ones in the gallery and the cabinet of the Minister of Justice. Minister, you were also present for hours on Saturdays when we were guests in your cabinet to discuss the texts. I don't know if that's a habit. If so, then that is very good; I thought it was a great achievement of yourself that you, together with us, devoted your Saturdays there. I would like to express my thanks to the cabinet, the experts Goossens and Casman and all the others for ensuring that political decisions could be taken after thorough debates and knowledge of the facts. We have not gone lightly on the reform and certainly not on one Saturday ice. Mr. Secretary, I have a little Napoleon candy for you. It also happens to be an orange candy. I'll let you finish it later. It is not a complete bag, as Mrs Becq said earlier. I think that a reform at once of all Napoleonic provisions in the form of an entire bag would be too heavy on the stomach. It is symbolic of the fairly radical change we are making in the Civil Code, which has been amended several times since 1804. The right of inheritance had to follow the spirit of the time, without compromising it. This is also reflected in the coalition agreement on family solidarity. Society has changed radically since 1804. Even though the Civil Code has already been amended, a global inheritance reform was necessary. The forms of society have changed. There are more and more newly composed families. Luckily, we all live longer. The function of the inheritance has changed radically. Mr Goffin and Mrs Van Cauter just referred to a study by the King Baudouin Foundation. This shows that people, more than in the past, have the need to decide very specifically what they do with their assets, which they have often built up themselves after years of hard work. On several occasions the call was heard from certain quarters that the reserve for children could even be abolished. Of course, that opinion changes when one is on the receiving side. When one is on the receiving side of an inheritance, one is usually won in order to maintain a certain reserve. I believe that we have found a very good balance in this. We have ensured greater freedom of decision and at the same time we have not completely abolished the reserve. We have kept that reserve for children, albeit less complex than is the case under current law, namely through a fixed fraction. That is the most striking reform of the draft law before us. There are a number of other very important and far-reaching changes. One of the most important is the appreciation of the donation. Under current law, a donation of movable property is treated differently from a donation of immovable property, when it comes to their valuation at the time of the distribution, the settlement of the inheritance, or when it is to be inserted or shortened. The reform looks more at the will of the donor. The classic example is that of an deceased who spends EUR 200 000 in life on his one child, in the form of a sum of money, and gives his other child a home worth the same EUR 200 000. There was probably a certain level playing field here once, but de facto there was no equality in the appreciation at the time of death. This equality is now being achieved and will be reflected. A very important part of the reform is the possibility of concluding an inheritance agreement, a derogation from the principle of non-disclosure. It will become possible to conclude an agreement on a legacy with the heirs in life. In this way one can indicate what one wants to give to whom and above all why. That is very important, because it gives all parties all the heirs must be present at it.The opportunity to talk within the family about that legacy in order to find a comparison during the life of the deceased. The reform thus meets the societal desire for greater autonomy, on the one hand, and more family peace, on the other. In this way we avoid lengthy ex post procedures on the distribution of the estate at a time when the ratio of the deceased or decujus is no longer so well established. During the hearings, several experts rightly pointed out the serious renunciation that could result from the conclusion of such an inheritance agreement. After all, in finding that consensus, a party may waive the rights to which it has no effective right until 30 years later. In such a decision, it goes without saying that there are sufficient safeguards to ensure that everyone knows very well what they are deciding and what the legal consequences of that decision will be for something which hopefully will not work until much later. We believe that the freedom to be assisted must be accompanied by the freedom not to be assisted. Those words aren't from me, they're from Professor Casman. I would like to say that there must be sufficient safeguards to ensure that everyone makes an informed decision, but that one is not obliged to finance one's own counsel. There is no obligation for the parties to consult, in addition to the instrumental notary, another notary or lawyer. A notary who performs his duties properly is notary of all parties and offers the opportunity for an individual interview with each of the parties. Each party may, moreover, be assisted. There's gonna be an information meeting by the notary. In a nutshell, for example, I have gone over the lines of the proposals put forward by Mr Van Cauter, Mr Goffin and Mr Becq, whom I would also like to thank, in addition to our experts and the Minister. During the discussion in the committee, members of the opposition were also active. Mrs Özen was present. Mr Van Hecke had a contribution. Thank you for the constructive way in which the texts were discussed in the Committee on Justice, which emphasizes the main lines, which the N-VA Group fully supports. This implements part of the coalition agreement. This has achieved the objective of balance. It's a first important step. I hope that my fellow Members have just expressed all this wish for the reform of matrimonial property law to be a second step in the overall reform next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u91	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, which one of you wrote a will and had it officially registered? Reportedly, about a hundred thousand people write a will every year, but apparently we are not there. It turns out that 30 percent of the population may be a little less, because it is a question of unpurified figures, because one wants to deviate to a greater or lesser extent from the legal succession. A study by the King Baudouin Foundation also teaches us that more and more people want to settle specific situations related to inheritance law, because they want to benefit and gift loved ones or children who have been given less opportunities. The legal framework from which one can deviate remains unchanged. The remaining 70% does not lay down a will, because it does not pay or because it relies on the current legal devolution regulation, to which Mr Goffin referred earlier. When we began to work on inheritance law in Parliament, we did not want to violate that basic confidence. That is why it was also necessary to find a link with the current situation in our discussions. It has been pointed out earlier that in Napoleonic law, which is the basis of our law, the family structure, which remained unchanged by the times, and the real estate was important. Today we see much more different family structures. Moreover, the movable assets, for example a portfolio of securities, are often as important as the real estate assets. All this underlines the importance of the reform. As mentioned in the coalition agreement, we want to give greater freedom, but at the same time we do not want to let go of family solidarity. This was not only reflected in the discussion, but also reflected in the law of inheritance. I won't go over all the great lines of power, although I've written them all down. There are the more sexy parts, on which the media have already communicated, among other things the fact that the permanently available part is increasing. On the other hand, the discussion is that only half of the estate can be divided among the children. Today, too, we can see an inequality between families with one child, which gets half of them, and families with three, four or more children, with three-quarters of the legacy to be distributed among the children. It is true that by increasing the available part more space is created. We have devoted seminars with our party to a global reform that included this element. We then looked at whether and how we could work out a scheme for newly constructed families and final beneficiaries who would like to give a child with a disability something extra. In our view, the simplest and most legally certain formula is to increase the available part, so that the deceased can freely settle his estate. At the same time, we want to maintain the reserve for the longest-lived partner. It means that half of the estate and at least half of the family home are reserved for the surviving partner, if there are children. The reserve will be abolished for ascendents, but there will be a maintenance obligation. Another great chapter, which the media has achieved, is about the famous heirloom agreements. The question arises as to whether one can abandon one's reserve in advance. Above all, we wanted to stress the safeguards. Mr Smeyers referred to this earlier. We must, of course, continue to reiterate the need for those concerned to be able to inform themselves. We place a great responsibility on the notaries. They have a responsibility to inform people properly. This does not necessarily mean additional costs. After all, I think it is important for everyone to know that he or she may forsake rights. Moreover, we do not always know what the future will bring. Furthermore, there must be a subjective balance for us between all children and heirs, who must be involved in the preparation of the heir agreement. It is perfectly possible to give more to one child than to the other, because for example one child has different possibilities than the other. Those safeguards and that subjectivity can be taken into account. At the same time, the deceased has peace of mind, because he or she knows that his or her children will not fight over the inheritance, as it is well divided. There is therefore a great responsibility on the notaries, of whom we hope they will take that responsibility as well as possible. Especially so important are the donations in kind, which are valued by value. My fellow Members have already discussed this. Mrs Smeyers gave an example of giving a house worth EUR 200 000, while I always use a house worth EUR 300 000 in my examples, but I come from another municipality. At the time of death one may have to deal with a different appreciation and that experienced heirs as unfair. That explains the importance of the valuation of gifts in kind, and I am also talking about securities in shares and foreign currency, for example. We have been palavering and discussing this for a long time, and often these discussions were very technical. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have explained this in a pedagogical way. In this context, it was established how this should be valued in the future, including indexation. In addition, the legislative proposal contains many other important provisions, such as the distribution of the children's reserve and the survivor's reserve, with a maximum effort to ensure that the survivor's reserve coincides with the available part. The principle that parents want to treat their children equally is reaffirmed. The donations to other heirs are excluded from the inheritance if the heir who wishes to specifically favour other heirs and does not want those gifts to be part of the package he or she wishes to distribute globally. Thanks to these provisions, grandchildren can also be awarded to grandchildren and part of a future inheritance can be passed on. Finally, I would like to mention the extended transitional arrangements, so that we can take into account what people wanted before the adoption of the new legal provisions. We've had a lot of meetings about this inheritance right. I admit that I actually liked to be able to think through and debate content. We were able to do the same in committee. A substantive discussion can also be held in the Committee on Justice. Inheritance is one thing, inheritance tax is another. I think it is important that we continue to make that distinction. It is also important for our fellow Members in the various regions to take account of the reform that has taken place here today. I know that the Regions and the Flemish Region approach gift rights and inheritance taxes differently. As a result, people do not so much take into account the way in which inheritance law is put together, but rather look at how they can work optimally with their gift or inheritance rights. As a result, donations are often made in advance to avoid subsequent succession. This is an appeal to our fellow Members of the Regions to include our legal understanding. Minister, I think we have reached an important milestone, but there will be others. At the same time, I would also like to raise the awareness of my fellow Members. We have tried, in part, to remove matrimonial property from inheritance law, bearing in mind that we are taking this package with us in order to achieve a new reform. A third challenge lies in the observation that there are today as many legal cohabitations as marriages. There are also many people who actually live together for a long time. For me, it is important that we also look at this in order to see how a default scheme can be made on it, so that other rights can be given to it. This is done on the basis of solidarity and on the basis that many people live together legally, not because they are against marriage, but because it is a start that will no longer be followed up. I will conclude, as my fellow Members have done, by thanking you. Thank you, Minister. Because of the way you led the meetings, and you are also a bit of a driver, you have managed to streamline this whole, based on a lot of work that had already been done in the previous legislature. There was the input of many, including from the notary and the legal profession. We can still say that they were at the table. Several groups have introduced their experience and have also introduced their technicality. I'd like to thank a few people in particular. They're sitting right in front of me in the gallery. They remind me a little bit of a female than "Statler" and "Waldorf" from the Muppets Show. We didn't always get along in the past, and we didn't always get along now. I would like to thank you for the patience, creativity and didactic ability in which you were leading, together with my fellow Members, because we have actually been able to make a nice experience together. I hope that the next reforms can be done in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u92	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the committee meeting a number of people were listed by the majority who undoubtedly deserve it. I would like to add a name from my group today, namely that of former sp.a-senator Guy Swennen. This proposal seems, at least for the time being, to be an end to a social debate that was put on the agenda by colleagues in the Senate, including the esteemed former colleague, Mr Swennen, about ten years ago. The problem of the so-called fighters then needed a solution. Systemically, no less than fourteen legislative proposals were submitted with the same aim each time: to avoid fighting festivities by modernising the current inheritance law. Some of these proposals also became law at that time. There was, for example, the introduction of the concept of inheritability to be inherited, a proposal put forward by Mr Swennen together with Mrs Martine Taelman, and there was the appreciation of usufruct in conversion. At that time, other legislative proposals already included the principles which were once again under discussion in our committee, such as increasing the freedom of access by the deceased, abolishing the reserve under the ascendants and the possibility of reducing the reserve for children to half whatever the number of children. There was also the equalisation of the valuation of gifts of immovable or movable property. Furthermore, there was a switch from the contribution and reduction in kind to input and reduction in value. Finally, the seeds were laid for broadening the gap in inheritance and making heirship agreements possible, so that attention is also paid to new family forms and the children that arise from them. These proposals were then combined with others in what we dare call the Casman Bill, which did not lead to a discussion in the Senate. We would like to acknowledge the credit of Mr Van Cauter for immediately re-presenting this text which is worthy of reading and putting it on the agenda, with the result of the proposal before us. So what's our plan now? Firstly, after more than two hundred years, reform of inheritance law is certainly in order. Secondly, the principles that we have upheld in the past have been retained, although some changes have been made in the direction of the march. Thirdly, however, we regret the extensive legal anchoring of the maintenance obligation borne by a deceased person without children for the benefit of needy parents. How disrespectful we can describe that as some kind of rest-house invoice reserve. The article raises questions, for example whether it is still possible to challenge this maintenance obligation, and what its consequence is in relation to the other potential creditors. Fourthly, we welcome a very comprehensive opinion from the Council of State, which repeatedly pointed to the possible inequalities, and note that these critical reservations are largely addressed by a wide range of amendments. Fifth, somewhat to our surprise, we have heard in the hearings a kind of schism between the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking professors, in which the latter very much highlight the potentially strong distortion between children due to the greater freedom of decision on the part of the deceased, which can therefore benefit one child to the detriment of the other children. That possibility cannot be ruled out. On the other hand, it must be said that this possibility exists today, and that the demand for more freedom is based specifically on broadening the possibility of a maximum level playing field for all children and responding to the reality of many newly created families. In conclusion, despite some shortcomings, we will support this proposal to modernise inheritance law as a tribute to the merits of the work of the senators in the previous legislatures, in particular our colleague Guy Swennen. The scope of this modern inheritance right will be evident in the coming months and years. It is, of course, also important to launch a very clear information campaign on this issue, so that everyone knows what the new possibilities will be in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u93	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are all in agreement to recognize the high level of intellectual work done by the working group in which you have participated very often – according to the echoes we have had, what Mrs Casman here will certainly not deny. You have shown your interest in this bill, which ultimately has only the title of "proposal", but which is practically a government bill, which we have known in other matters. We had done the same job, Mrs Becq, remember, for the creation of the Family and Youth Court, but under different political circumstances, since we had only a government that was not in full exercise at the time, which is not the case now. The discussion in committee was frank and open. Objectively, we must recognize that our inheritance law certainly needed to be cleaned and rewritten in order to be more understandable, laudable objectives. However, you know, Mr Minister and colleagues in the majority, that if I have been able to join you on a number of points in the overall assessment and, ultimately, in the whole text, it is an opposition to your reform which I have shown and which my group will continue to demonstrate at the time of the vote tomorrow. I will explain why we do not consider your reform to be sufficiently successful and proportionate, taking into account the interests of each other in matters of inheritance. Before that, Minister, I will express a regret about the method. As I said in committee, we know that you are probably working with the same experts and working groups on the reform of matrimonial regimes. Unfortunately, the latter has not been presented to us and we do not know about it, we members of the opposition, either the first or the last word. We therefore do not know in which direction it is going. However, it is well known that, in matters of inheritance, before considering the problems of succession on the occasion of the death of a married person, the first question that will arise – and the answer that will be given to it – is to liquidate the matrimonial regime before dealing with estate issues. Here, we are being asked to deal with a reform of inheritance rights when we do not know anything about the content of the reform of matrimonial regimes. As I suggested, we had to work on all the texts. And without being able to do so, we should have done the opposite and worked on matrimonial regimes first, and then work on succession rights reform. This also exacerbates our concern about this bill. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have already said all the good things that I think about the introduction, among other reform measures, of the possibility for families to now agree on a succession pact. At the university, we were told that the pact on future succession was forbidden in our law. Today, we're gonna be able to do it. It is indeed a good thing that families can gather around their counselor's table, their notary's table, programme together the different aspects of a future succession by talking to each other, by consulting each other, by perhaps explaining why one of the family members or siblings is advantaged over another or that an advantage granted is explained for one or the other reason that can lead to an agreement. Nevertheless, I said that your text does not sufficiently specify that situations such as these can also create difficulties or imbalances. We all know that, in a family, one who is called upon to regulate his succession, pater or mater familias would have been said at another time, can have considerable influence and by his natural or other authority impose it on his heirs. One can also imagine that, among the heirs of the family, one or the other has an ascendant on his brothers and sisters, for example, and that the balance is not necessarily reached or acquired. In doing so, protections may have been needed, which should have been provided for more in your text. It is clear, however, that we are making a good progress in accepting these pacts on succession to be arranged or on future succession. As far as succession in general is concerned, the observations I have made in relation to the text are that, while it is an important work from an intellectual and legal point of view, it cannot be denied that it is also political work. Behind the majority's choices, there are real political choices. I'll come back. First of all, let's clarify what happens next. It's important to remember. The General Delegate for the Rights of the Child indicated this to us in his note to the members of the commission: "It is because of his filiation that a child becomes an heir. Succession thus symbolically guarantees the survival of the bond of filiation beyond death. Succession comes to play the act of recognition. If this succession is unbalanced, it can be deeply disturbing for a child." This is the basis, the question we need to have in mind when discussing the development of our inheritance law. I had the opportunity to ask, in committee, whether the work of the legislator of 1804 was so outdated that it was necessary to sweep it away. At the time, the rules of our inheritance law ensured equality of succession. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we came from a situation where, very often, only sons and not daughters, and most of the time, the first-born to the detriment of the cadets, were inherited. The legislator considered that there was a need to strike a balance with regard to these disproportions. For me, this reform was progress, which ensured that balance. Today, it is clear that the will that led to the drafting of this text and the philosophy pursued by its authors are to consecrate rather a vision that I have described as "very liberal" of things, in the sense that they assume that it is the autonomy of the testator's will that must be privileged and that it is to him that we must offer the opportunities to settle his succession according to what he thinks must be done. No matter what the children he may have had from a first bed, the children he may have had from another, the spouses who may have succeeded each other. Several speakers have relied this afternoon on a study by the Fondation Roi Baudouin, of which we have heard collaborators in committee. Some of you forget, when quoting it, that while this study considers it important to give priority to the autonomy of the will, it also feels that there is some ambivalence among those interviewed. All of them certainly say that they want to be free, but if they are asked to put themselves in the place of the children or surviving spouse, their answer is to invoke the need for protection, which is therefore not definitively ruled out. Yes, we see that the difficulty in drawing up a text such as this is to strike a balance between the notion of the autonomy of the will – which is perfectly acceptable and defensible – and the necessary family solidarity when discussing issues of successional division of a heritage. My feeling, shared by my group, is that the choice of valuing the individual freedom to organize his or her succession has, to a large extent, fundamentally deconstructed our inheritance right. Not that it should not be modernised, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen. As I have indicated on several occasions, it is important to do so. Moreover, one of the positive objectives of this reform is to modernise it and make it more readable. But the significant increase in the available quota which is no longer modulated but which is automatically fixed at half of the estate, regardless of the number of children in the family, the disappearance of the modulation of the hereditary reserve according to the number of children and the transformation of the reserve into value rather than in kind, are all points of concern. The new balance, as we can read in the motivation of the bill, is to be found by preserving the interests of everyone. I don't think we can do this, except in one case: when there is only one child. If there is only one child, the interests of the person who organizes his or her succession, the interests of the surviving partner and the interests of the single child are indeed acceptable and proportionate. On the other hand, as soon as there are two or three or more children, the imbalance is important and is unacceptable to us. As a result of the imbalance that will be created between potential heirs, far from diminishing, intra-family conflicts or even conflicts brought to justice will not go by reducing, on the contrary. I'm not the only one talking that way. The Council of State, in the opinion it gave us, said this: "Taking into account that a modulation of the reserve according to the number of children would leave to a great extent the possibility for it to favour, if necessary, any beneficiary of a liberality, which seems to correspond to the objective generally followed by the proposal, we cannot, however, oppose family freedom and solidarity but arrive at a system that allows everyone to be respected." The Council of State doubted whether that balance had been reached. The children, in the system you offer us, will be less protected. They will be less protected especially if they are two, three or four because fixing the quota available to half, regardless of the number of children, will create difficulties. It is paradoxical, however, at the time we live, to introduce a notion such as this one and this imbalance at a time when the creation of a bond of filiation towards a child is now more a matter of the will and personal responsibility of each person than of biology. When it is decided today to be a parent, whatever the way in which it is, it is consistent that the parent assumes responsibility for it. Here, I'm sorry to say it, but if there are several children, we're going in exactly the opposite direction. If we decided to have more than one child, especially with different partners, the commitment will not be the same as if we had only one child and the consequences for inheritance law will be seriously unfair. As I said earlier, appeals will necessarily and inevitably be brought against this reform or against the application of this reform. The greater the number of children, the less they will be deemed worthy of interest and recognition by the legislator. We're taking the back foot of the revolutionary legislator I was telling you about earlier. I come back to what the Council of State said in its opinion, when it comes to the question of whether the fixing of a flat-rate reservation, uniformly to half of the deceased's assets, regardless of the number of reservatory heirs, is compatible with the principles of equality and non-discrimination. We are well aware that when the Council of State points to this kind of situation, it is obvious that the answer is in the question it formulates or, in any case, it is an open door for the Constitutional Court to be invited, if necessary on the basis of an appeal, to ask itself the question. The Council of State concludes on this question by saying: "Of course, the legislator has an important margin of appreciation but it must be noted that this establishes a different system of protection between children from different families, which leads to a preference for single children." I did not say anything else when I told you that the reform will be acceptable when it comes to single but totally unbalanced children when there are several children. Like the Council of State, lawyers.be pointed out two main sources of family conflict: the one that may exist between the last partner and children from other unions and the inequality between children from the same siblings. In its opinion, avocats.be concludes that this legislation, even if it is quite positive, will lead to numerous and profound conflicts. If there is an imbalance between the children, there will also be an imbalance between the children and the surviving spouse. This may also be the greatest weakness of your reform. The inheritance rights between children and surviving spouses can be very unbalanced, especially if the children are not those of the surviving spouse. Currently, there is already a cumulation of matrimonial benefits and estate rights of the surviving spouse. But the bill that we are about to vote on goes further. It decides on the increase in the available quota. Minister, I say this without knowing what will be left to us by the reform of matrimonial regimes. The surviving spouse will be able to collect half of the estate in full ownership with the new increased quota of the estate usufruct on the other half of the estate. It is at this point that the imbalance becomes impressive. Not to mention the reserve that is now in value – there was also much talk about it during the work of the commission. The surviving spouse may in fact inherit everything, provided that he/she compensates in cash, even if the deceased had children of a previous union. In terms of proportionality, I believe that this situation is not acceptable. When the principle of individual freedom, the autonomy of the will over heirs and heir children is emphasized and the link between the deceased and the surviving partner is highlighted, the choice is made to highlight a link which, in essence, is likely to evolve or even disappear – we know the conjugal relations – while the bond of filiation is intangible. This is not the case for marital ties, and yet we are proposed here to promote a relationship which is less intangible than that of filiation, sometimes by being able to empty this notion from any meaning, in any case in the eyes of inheritance law. To get a precise idea of what this can mean in reality, the value of usufruct being calculated on the basis of tables, if one takes the situation of a father who dies, whose spouse is 40 years old, and who has the possibility of assigning to his spouse half of the estate (50%) plus 62% of 50%, one reaches 80% available. If he has two children, each of them will receive only 9.5% of the estate. This means that compared to the surviving spouse, who is not necessarily the parent of the children and who may have lived only a short time with the spouse, they will receive nine times less than the spouse. If he has three children, and if we go to the end of the opportunities offered by the law – the law offers availabilities that we are not obliged to follow and we adapt his estate as we wish – they will receive twelve times less than the surviving spouse. If he has four children, it'll be seventeen times less. Examples can be followed depending on the age of the surviving spouse and the number of children. All this to tell you that the imbalance between the respective shares of the spouse and each child could become impressive, provided that all the opportunities offered by the new legislation are used. Minister, third point. We've already talked about it, you've already answered it and so I'm not going to expand it too much. It concerns a less political but more technical or more philosophical choice: the transformation of the reserve into a reserve in kind into a reserve in value. By definition, the reservation is the share reserved for the heir, for inheritance in the broad sense. It was said earlier that "successful" means taking someone's place on his death, entering his place in the exercise of his rights and obligations, which makes sense, if one succeeds in kind and if one has a reserve in kind. If nature is no longer expressed in value, we will no longer speak of an heir but of a creditor. It doesn't have the same connotation. It is in this that I say that it may be a more philosophical choice, but we are moving away from what should be the well-understood inheritance law, in a coherent and overall manner that should be its own. That is why I still think that your text finally proposes a radical deconstruction of our right of succession and of the very meaning of transmission. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group and I can say yes to the reform of the estate pacts, which should allow for greater cooperation in families, better informed and accepted succession programming - this is important - provided that sufficient advice and support are guaranteed. Yes also to the reform which simplifies and makes things more understandable, although for the lay people, this matter will always remain a tantinet more difficult to understand. But, on the other hand, not a reform that will protect children less. You must have understood that. Not to a split and incomplete reform that will probably be aggravated by the reform of matrimonial regimes. Not to a reform which makes the choice to promote individualism and which makes it possible to deny in large part the only indefatigable link of filiation, by fixing the available quota, regardless of the number of children, to half of the estate, which makes it possible to make the reserve share of children almost non-existent if they are more numerous than two. Not to a reform that will raise more than before against each other members of the same family, recomposed or not, by reviving old grudges and by allowing to create great inequalities in fratries. Not to a reform that totally unbalancedly favours the surviving spouse, who is already well protected at present. Not to a reform that emptys the word "success" from its substance to replace it with the notion of "creance"; a reform that will undoubtedly exacerbate rather than reduce conflicts. Not a reform that finds no other solutions for recomposed couples and families than those that exist, by increasing the possibilities of injustice. Ladies and gentlemen, despite some progress, overall, our vote on your proposal will be negative.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u94	Mr President, I am replacing Mr Maingain, who has been very busy for the time being. I hope you won't mind. Ladies and gentlemen, one of our first tasks as legislator is to bring the law into line with the evolution of the morals and society in which we live. Our inheritance law, as introduced in the Civil Code in 1804, no longer responds to the evolution of our family models, to the break-up of the family unit, which itself no longer corresponds at all to a whole gravitating around the nucleus of the pater familias, but to very different realities. Marriage is no longer, fortunately, the only possible form of union, giving way to legal and de facto cohabitation. The number of recomposed families is also steadily increasing. In inheritance law, this evolution is observed and highlights new family conflicts to be resolved, during an already particularly painful period. Another phenomenon, according to the authors of the bill, is the growing willingness of testers to enjoy greater freedom. This proposal therefore seeks to find difficult balances between greater flexibility for future testators and the necessary protection of heirs and legal certainty for them, while strengthening solidarity mechanisms. It is a fundamental balance, but it is all the more difficult to achieve that, for the testatere, what is right is not necessarily always equal, while for the heir, the share of inheritance devolved to him must reflect his place and the quality of his relationship with the deceased. In this regard, I must admit that the bill includes some positive developments. For example, the surviving spouse will no longer be able to request the report of the donations that took place before he or she acquired that status. However, I cannot support this text for reasons of both form and substance. On the subject of form, I regret, like my opposition colleagues, that the opportunity by the working group currently planning on the reform of the law of matrimonial regimes has not been seized to at the same time deepen the matter of successions, with which the links are evident. It would have been even more logical for the text reforming matrimonial regimes to precede this proposal. Of course, we have been promised that both reforms will enter into force only simultaneously. The urgency surrounding this bill is therefore no longer justified. To announce this simultaneous entry into force is in fact to admit that we could, in fact, have taken the time to deepen more seriously the question of the balances which I have just mentioned. That's unfortunate. It shows that either inconsistencies will be observed, or fundamental points will be lacking in this dual reform, such as the status of the adopted child, to name but a few. I therefore join the Council of State in confirming that "the regime applicable to inheritances and gifts cannot be dissociated from the law on matrimonial regimes." The Council of State also asked whether it would not have been appropriate to undertake a joint reform of these two aspects of family matrimonial law. To get to the bottom of it, the opinions of experts heard in committee have, I must say, been quite mixed on some points. There is no doubt, however, that this contrast is due to a more ideological and political choice than purely pragmatic, as the authors of the bill wanted to present to us. There are two fundamental questions. The first concerns the reduction of the children's reserve to half of the assets of the default, regardless of the number of children, i.e. reservatory heirs. As has been pointed out by several professors, including Professors Renchon and Van Gysel, but also by the Council of State in its opinion of 20 April, this reduction is problematic with regard to the principles of equality and non-discrimination, enshrined in articles 10 and 11 of our Constitution, since it would greatly benefit single children. The reserve of single children will reach twice what will benefit children who form a two-child sibling and triple in the case of three-child siblings. While there is a natural inequality of succession between single children and children of varying degrees of siblings, this inequality is considerably reinforced by the proposal, which should be mitigated instead. The children are also totally disadvantaged in relation to the last partner who thus becomes the classical heir, in an Anglo-Saxon conception of the family unit, as Professor Van Gysel explained to us. This shows that the deceased's horizontal ties with his last spouse prevail over the deceased's vertical ties with his children, especially if they come from a previous union. This situation seems to us unfair not only in view of the importance of the child's interest and the link of filiation, an intangible and permanent link by definition, but also in view of the supplementary inheritance rights to which the surviving spouse is entitled, i.e. the preferential allocation of family housing and the right of veto over the conversion of usufruct over preferential goods. It would therefore be acceptable to consider that the surviving spouse's psychological and legitimate attachment to certain property would be superior to that of the children. I cannot conceive of it, particularly in view of the objective pursued by the proposal, namely the reconciliation of the interests of all the parties concerned. More pragmatically, limiting the reserve to half the assets will not reduce family disputes and, consequently, inheritance disputes. That's the opposite! Professors Renchon and Van Gysel have confirmed to us that the majority of the conflicts that are brought before the court today, which can be very violent, originate either in an unequal situation between the children or in a confrontation between the children and a spouse of a later marriage. This is important to me in view of the government's desire to reduce the workload of the courts, in this case the family courts. I therefore regret that the proposal has not been in the direction of modulation of the reserve according to the number of children. The second point concerns the transformation of the reserve into a reserve into a value. This can be understood first and foremost in the light of the evolution of morals and the facilities resulting therefrom; for example, and mainly in the case of buildings which are impossible to share as such between the various reservatory heirs. However, this development does not seem to me to be on the right track. First, it may be very difficult to collect only money instead of property to which the heir was legitimately attached. Second, the reserve in securities would require the reservatative heirs, who had not been assigned property, to wait until liquidation and sharing had been completed. Finally, and more fundamentally, children would thus become mere creditors of a sum of money. As the Council of State has said, "if one can understand the willingness of the authors of the proposed law to favour the ratio or the reduction in value, it may nevertheless seem disproportionate in view of the reasons put forward to permanently exclude any possibility for him to impose on his heirs the relationship or the reduction in kind. Such a definitive exclusion is indeed an important restriction on the autonomy of the disposer." As for succession pacts, it was time for the principled prohibition of future succession pacts to be relaxed. These allow for an agreement during the lifetime of the future testator, which can also help to leave the mind quieter. However, another reality of families should not be obscured, namely, more influential or less assertive members who would more easily yield to possible pressures on future succession. It is therefore necessary to ensure that each party is certain and aware of what it renounces. The succession pact is indeed acceptable only if it is well understood and freely agreed. The role of the notary is, in this respect, paramount and I trust the profession. But every family is not equal in terms of access to a notary's counsel and understanding. I would therefore have liked the proposal to provide for additional guarantees. The study "Perceptions and expectations of inheritance law in Belgium" presented to us by the Fondation Roi Baudouin shows that Belgians expect precautionary measures against the risks of abuse or excessive influence by a parent or stepparents. According to the Minister, members' concerns about influence or pressure that could be exercised through numerous formalities are taken into account. Forgive me, but I still do not see how these formalities help to avoid such pressures. I also regret that the proposal does not address the injustice resulting from situations in which a child has taken special care of a deceased then alive, on the contrary to others and who sees the succession shared in equal shares. While sharing respects the principle of equality, we know that differences in treatment can be justified without discrimination. For example, a compensation mechanism could have been proposed. For all these reasons, my group will not support this bill in that it does not achieve the promised and necessary balance in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u95	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Casman and Mrs Goossens, Mrs Van Cauter, Mrs Becq, Mrs Smeyers, the honourable members of the opposition, for their very constructive cooperation. I think we have come to a text that... Mr. Goffin, I forgot you, but that's because I'm still thinking about you! So we have achieved a social balance, as required by the government agreement. That is our Bible which we are trying to keep to the best of our ability. It's a very ambitious Bible. As you know, I certainly did not write to him as far as justice is concerned, but bringing solidarity and freedom of decision to a new socially acceptable balance was the objective here. That is why the reserve will now be reduced to half and no longer to three-quarters because the autonomy of the citizen needs more margin in this area. I am always surprised to see that this increased freedom is part of a competition between children and the surviving spouse. Let us be clear, the available share can in any case also be given to one of the children. I think, for example, of the child who needs more care than others, like a disabled child. Why do you think it's always the surviving spouse who will benefit from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u96	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u97	Anything is possible, Mr. Brotcorne. But as you always say no, I say yes. Furthermore, it is important to point out, Mr Brotcorne, that we will never agree on methodology. You are such perfectionism that you should have the plan to improve the world before you begin to reform it. In doing so, you will never reform anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u98	[[....]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u99	[[I heard your legal methodology.]] But this is a reproach you constantly make to me. And I always answer you by giving you the same answer because we don't do anything, if we want to do everything at the same time. Having said that, I can allay your fears about the surviving spouse. We have no intention of extending the rights of the latter, especially not of the second surviving spouse who, in general, from a sociological point of view, is a younger woman who married a man who lost or divorced her first wife. I also think it is interesting to make it clear that the input and the reduction in value are now the rule. I believe that this is a sound view, the only reasonable and manageable one, including the power situations we know today. The valuation at the time of the transfer of ownership, usually the donation, is the best time to leave, with an indexation that will be the same for everyone. Mrs Caprasse, I understand that you do not like too much that in terms of a pact on future succession, as is generally called, formalities do not sufficiently protect the parties. Honestly, if the possibility of an appointment twice before the notary and the obligation for the notary to indicate that it is lawful to be assisted by a confrere or other counsel, such as a lawyer, are not sufficient, then no provision will ever be satisfactory to you. In this sense, I believe that we have done well to extend the possibility of the succession pact, as it is a beautiful alternative to the will. It is true, Mrs Becq, that there are many wills being made, but I think that many people will feel liberated by the possibility of entering into an heir agreement that is considered and well thought out and unites all heirs over an existing number of goods at that time. Thank you once again, Mr President. I'd like to leave it at that. I wish you well this evening's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u100	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u101	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2282/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2282/10) The bill has 73 articles. The bill has 73 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u102	Art. 46 • 69 – Christian Brotcorne (2282/11) • 70 – Christian Brotcorne (2282/11) Art. 47 • 68 – Christian Brotcorne (2282/11) Art. 54 • 67 – Christian Brotcorne (2282/11) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u103	Articles 1100/1 to 1100/7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be adopted in accordance with Article 63. Rule 63 is adopted. Articles 64 to 73 shall be adopted by article.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u104	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u105	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur, I am referring to the written report, but on behalf of my group I will give a brief explanation. The draft law before us finally provides for legislation for the FOSO, the independent monitoring body for shipping accidents. The first legislation in this area dates back to 2013, but some of the provisions of that law were annulled by the Constitutional Court on the basis of the principle of equality. After a standstill of three years, this spring the dossier suddenly accelerated with the present draft law as a result. However, it is punishment that the current government still has to clean up the ruins of the previous governments, now again around a bill that has been destroyed before. However, it is positive that the government wants to set up a system which minimises administrative and financial burdens. Indeed, the slope of individualised hit notes would have resulted in a very heavy and expensive system. We welcome the proposed scheme whereby researchers are recruited on a temporary basis according to the needs of the field. I have a thought after all. We must be careful to ensure that the burden determined here remains proportionately distributed. The method of calculating the tax may be considered cost-effective, but the cost-sharing may not be balanced if it is seen that foreign flags are counted by ship, irrespective of capacity or tonnage, as opposed to ships flying the Belgian flag. Apart from this thought, our group will support the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u107	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u108	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2511/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2511/4) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u109	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u110	V Earrings submitted by: Proposal submitted by: Roel Deseyn, Jef Van den Bergh, Els Van Hoof, Franky Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u111	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Dedecker. He shall refer to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u112	Mr. Chair, in relation to this bill, where we find that, in the fight against the sometimes abusive practices of some telecom service providers, there are limits to be set, I welcome, as far as we are concerned, the progress that is being made for consumers in this project. However, the 2015 annual report of the mediation service clearly states that "operators abuse the complete interruption of the service to put consumers under pressure to pay disputed amounts for third-party services". From now on, any interruption of service applied by an operator following a default of payment remains limited to the service concerned. However, the government does not provide itself with the means to meet its objective of avoiding excessive closure of these essential online services, such as Internet banking and e-government. The increased digitalisation of the company has increased the end-user problem caused by a sudden closure of essential online services. Some people find themselves in an infernal spiral where a failure to pay results in the complete interruption of fixed Internet services. These people then have difficult access to services such as e-government or homebanking and thus become more insecure in the digital world. In this case of non-payment, it is therefore foreseen that operators will reduce the speed of the Internet and set a minimum legal level before achieving a complete interruption of fixed Internet services. The operator must therefore first notify and then notify the customer in question. However, the proposed minimum speed is 256 kb/s set by the government. However, it does not correspond to the speed required to access essential online services. The IBPT already proposed in 2013 a speed of 512 kb/s to allow access to services that might be necessary for social integration, i.e. Internet navigation, job search which is still an important step, e-commerce, e-government, e-mail, access to social networks. I therefore tabled an amendment seeking to double the minimum speed from 256 to 512 kb/s, as proposed by the Mediation Service. If I may, the expression 512 kb/s is not Peru! It is slow enough to encourage users to comply with their payment obligations. Of course, with 512 kb/s, it's not about watching videos or movies on Netflix. But this would allow someone to pay their payments on their homebanking, for example, and thus be able to pay their bills more quickly. I suggest, by my amendment, that we make use of it in a double manner compared to what the bill currently provides. This speed corresponds to what the mediation service refers to in an annual report. This would allow his tax return to be completed on time. This Internet speed is sufficient to allow everyone the minimum use of this service. Mr. President, that's what I meant. I have announced and justified the amendment that I am going to introduce on behalf of the cdH Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u113	Minister, I don't know if this requires a response?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u114	Mr President, the Minister responsible for telecommunications has just asked me to state that the draft law is in fact intended to improve a number of laws in the interests of consumers and the public authorities themselves. This is contained in the draft that will be put to the vote shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u115	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? (Non) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u116	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2558/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2558/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Bill on various provisions in the field of electronic communications". The title in French has been amended by the committee in "Draft law on various provisions in the field of electronic communications". The draft law has 34 articles. The bill has 34 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u117	Art. 25 • 7 – Isabelle Poncelet cs (2558/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u118	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Vanden Burre, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u120	Mr President, as part of this project, I might have wished to re-examine the minister with regard to strict legality and to ensure, with the project on the table, the quality of the work of the professionals of the figure. Minister, the extension of the quality review to accounting experts is a good thing, but I want to point out that your bill introduces distortions in the fact that auditors and accountants who perform the same tasks would not be subject to the same quality review. Reviewers are subject to the quality review of an independent body, the College of Supervisors of Business Reviewers, while accountants are subject to the quality review of their own umbrella structure of which they are members, i.e. the Institute of Accountants. I was able to read back in the report the answers you gave in committee. I would like to hear you again about this problem of the risk of distortion between these two professions of the professionals of the number. I recall that it is important for the King to use the prerogatives given to him with this bill to define the references that must be included in the mission letter and to prohibit certain references. This should be done in consultation with the Institute of Accountants, but also with organisations representing enterprises and particularly SMEs. The King could propose a model-type mission letter. Minister, we have learned that the Institute of Accountants has, unilaterally and without consultation, informed the appropriate ministers of its decision to terminate the discussions with the Institute of Business Reviewers a few weeks ago, without returning to the table. Do you think there is a link between this breakup and the bill? I would have liked to hear you again about this notion of discrimination or not, in relation to two professions in the field of the figure. Here are the details that I would have liked to have received from the Minister on this subject!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to point out in the preamble that it is essential that economic actors, businesses, SMEs and self-employed persons be supported by experts and figures professionals. Their role is increasingly a role of advice, analysis, support and strategic support. I know that the work done by these numbers professionals is important, of high quality, and I take this opportunity to highlight it. Furthermore, with regard to the convergence of the three institutes, of the three professions, we have an interest in supporting as far as possible a process of rapprochement. This process is already a very, very long history, which has almost ended in different forms at certain times. For example, at the time of Prime Minister Verhofstadt, we were very close to a gathering of institutes, but for a number of reasons this did not succeed. For my part, I support the rapprochement, possibly on a step-by-step basis. I think Kris Peeters, co-responsible for some of the institutes with me and only responsible for the reviewers, has the same vision as me. We therefore support this process of gradual rapprochement. Mr. de Lamotte, the Chinese say it's time that makes the tree. Sometimes you have to give yourself some time to make the tree robust. You asked me a very specific question. I recognize your tenacity here, since you asked the same question from a different angle in committee. I would like to be very specific in my answer. Therefore, I apologize for reading out some elements to serve this clarification that is relevant to your question. In a very clear way, two elements are essential for monitoring. First of all, it should be noted that certain control tasks can be carried out by both accounting experts and business reviewers! This element is not new. Indeed, since the adaptation of the Company Code through the laws of 18 and 20 July 1991 and 29 June 1993, a number of statutory supervisory tasks previously belonging to the monopoly of company reviewers may be entrusted to an external accountant. These include, for example, the mission to dissolve limited liability companies, the mission to transform a company or the mission in the event of a merger or division of a company. To this end, the Institute of Accountants and Tax Boards and the Institute of Business Reviewers have developed a common normative framework on these elements. Since then, accounting experts have been subject to the supervision and disciplinary authority of the Institute of Accounting Experts and Tax Boards for the performance of these tasks. In other words, the issue of supervision has already been resolved. Moreover, as you have rightly noted, the supervision and disciplinary power of the profession of business reviewer has been thoroughly reformed as a result of the European audit reform. In accordance with these European rules, the supervision of corporate reviewers, as part of their duties as commissioners within public interest entities, must be entrusted to an independent body. For financial reasons and for the purpose of uniform supervision, it was also decided, at the request of the Institute of Enterprise Reviewers, to entrust the supervision of all the company reviewers to the College of Supervision of Enterprise Reviewers. It is therefore not entirely true that the monitoring of the execution of joint monitoring missions was entrusted to this College, because of their nature. I wanted to be precise, because the issue of this supervision has been the subject of lengthy debate. But regardless of the analysis I have just shared, I would like to give all the necessary attention to the supervision of accounting experts and tax advice. If it is necessary to examine a number of legal dialogues, contacts, reflections and analyses, I shall, together with Kris Peeters, make improvements. But I think the bill, which you have not contested, is justified on its own. Sorry about the technicality of the answer, but you wanted specific things. There they are!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u122	Mr Minister, you are well aware that in committee we have adopted the bill. We will not change our mind. We need to put things in place, of course, but there are some difficulties in achieving this because of certain aspects. It is important to proceed on a step-by-step basis, as you mentioned. We really wanted to draw your attention to this dimension. As one of my colleagues blew me up, you don't always have to believe the Chinese. It is not because there is a proverb that this is applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u123	Do not hesitate to send me proposals on this amendment if you have any!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u124	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u125	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2418/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2418/4) The draft law has 30 articles. The bill has 30 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u127	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u128	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u129	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak briefly to justify a positive vote despite a number of points made in committee. The implementation of this European directive is a good thing. From now on, large companies will have to make a public statement on how they exercise their societal responsibilities, whether in terms of diversity within their administrative bodies or in terms of human rights, the environment and the fight against corruption. If they do not put anything in place in these areas, they will have to make it public in a statement attached to the management report. This is an important signal in terms of corporate social and environmental responsibility. The project also requires greater transparency in the remuneration of directors of companies in which the public authorities exercise control. We support this approach. However, as we said in committee, we would have liked to go further. First, we regret that the government has not responded to the Central Economic Council's suggestion to extend the scope of the project to public enterprises. Secondly, we note that the directive made it possible to impose the publication of information on the company's supply chain and subcontracting. This opportunity, which is very useful for NGOs interested in the defence of social rights, has not been seized. Finally, we will pay attention to the implementation of the safe airborne clause, which allows companies not to disclose information when it relates to future developments in society. This clause was not imposed by Europe. It was included in the draft. In no case may its implementation affect the right of information and consultation of trade unions. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is a step in the right direction, but the choices made for transposition can be discussed. The government uses a pejorative term to justify a policy of minimum transposition of European directives. He says he wants to avoid gold-plate. However, another approach is possible. In France, a broad participatory consensus had been set up to invite civil society, academia and NGOs to give their views on how this directive should be transposed. To draw inspiration from this method is certainly not an infamous thing. As these reservations are made, we will vote in favour of the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u130	Mr President, Mr Delannois, I would like to reassure you. It is good that you consider it necessary to justify your positive voice, as you yourself said. The Minister responsible has asked me to make it clear that your concerns are contained in the draft and that everything is therefore in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u131	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u132	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2564/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2564/5) The draft law has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u133	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u134	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Benoît Dispa, Christian Brotcorne, Benoît Lutgen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u135	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u136	Mr President, for the most part I can refer to the written report, but I had asked the committee to provide a schedule so that the municipalities could prepare themselves to the maximum extent possible for the advance payment system. I understand the Minister brought the schedule to the meeting, as he promised. I therefore propose that we share it so that we are fully informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u137	The schedule will be copied and distributed, Mr Deseyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u138	Mr President, for my part, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u139	The only speaker inscribed is Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u140	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome this significant progress. I am thinking of all our colleagues who manage their communes on a daily basis. There are among us a number of mayors whom I greet. We know how badly communal finances have been mistreated in recent years, if not in recent decades. And of course I can't help but say that this government has not fixed things. The latest reform of the tax on natural persons has a direct impact on municipal finances, not to mention a whole series of other measures that you are taking and that increase the burden on local entities, in particular municipalities. Nevertheless, we welcome this measure, which is a new model, a new solution that succeeds other solutions. I also welcome the work of my colleague, Benoît Dispa, who has taken a number of initiatives and who has undoubtedly inspired the government. But, Mr Minister of Finance, I would like to invite you to consider abandoning the 1% of the costs that remain to be borne by the municipalities, i.e. the 1% deduction that you make. My argument does not, of course, deny that an administrative burden is linked to the collection of tax. In doing so, it makes sense to send the invoice to the municipalities. However, as a matter of fact, this amounts to EUR 30 million. I think you gave me the number. This amount only compensates imperfectly for the overall loss of profits of municipalities linked to the tax of natural persons. Sending these 30 million back to the municipalities would be just justice. I am sure that many of my colleagues will welcome this request. Finally, I once again welcome the work of the mayors of Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u141	I would like to express our appreciation of this bill and the work done by the Minister. For some time now, in fact, the local authorities and our group have been calling for the introduction of a structural advance system for a structural and stable payment system of additional personal taxation to local authorities. As you know, the stability of the spill-over to local authorities is very important in their own multi-annual planning of funding and budgeting. If we expect local authorities to be good family fathers in terms of budget and accounting, then so should we, as federal government. We must ensure a very stable system of advance payments. This draft law is very much in line with that. In the past, through temporary advances plus ad hoc advances from 2013 to 2016, with an annual advance paid in December, attempts have been made to address the liquidity and solvency problems of the municipalities, but that system never provided a satisfactory response, given the necessary security of a stable advance system. This draft law can effectively respond to these concerns and questions. So we fully support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u142	Thank you, Mrs Smaers. Mr Dispa has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u143	Mr President, thank you. Contrary to what our colleague, Mr Laaouej, suggests, I do not have the naivety to think that I can inspire government policy. While it is true that I have been able, a little bit, to help put some pressure on this issue like many others, I welcome it. I had done so, in particular, by introducing a bill on behalf of the cdH group, aimed at introducing an automatic advance system, and I had also done so by calling on the Minister of Finance on a number of occasions. As I did in committee, I would like in plenary to thank the latter and his teams for the work they have done, because it is a great step forward made by the local authorities. In my opinion, it is only justice: when we look at the evolution of communal finances in recent years, we see a real control of communal spending. In all sectors, caution should be exercised and communal managers should be put to the credit. On the other hand, as far as revenue is concerned, the situation is more difficult because the control of these revenues is not always complete. The latter will be affected by the effects of the tax shift, without wanting to revive the debate on the subject. But it is true that a priori, the municipalities may fear, according to the FPS Finance forecasts, a reduction, all other things being equal, of the additions to the PPI of the order of 10% and it is therefore a real threat to the local finances. You may think, on the side of the majority, that there will be a return effect. We'll see what happens. In any case, it is a real difficulty. But another major difficulty, and that is the one that the bill responds to, is the great volatility of the additionals, particularly the PPI. This creates problems of fiscal predictability and cash flow. The proposal that the Minister has developed with his services does, however, address this issue. I would like to pay tribute to the fight led by the teams of the Unions of Cities and Municipalities throughout the country. I think their expertise has been added to that of the FPS Finance team to finally imagine a device that has, I think, its quality. I particularly welcome, Mr Minister, that you have agreed to increase the percentage of the advance from 70 % to 80 % on the basis, in particular, of the consultation you have had with the Union of Cities and Municipalities. There is no doubt that this is good news, a step forward. I am delighted and thank you for that. I confirm the support of my group, the CDH, for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u144	Mr President, I agree with all my fellow Members, including my own group. This is a question that has been asked for years in both the federal and the Flemish Parliaments. The Association of Cities and Municipalities has often asked us this question, as has many mayors. I've been to finance ships in Zaventem myself. Minister, I should like to thank you for being the first to carry out what has been promised very often. I would also like to thank Mr Dispa, who, with his legislative proposal, has insisted on this. I do not agree with Mr Laaouej when he says that the municipalities should be compensated. If raising or lowering taxes has incidences, this also has to do with legislation. This is also the case with the Finance Act. When it comes to incentives and municipal finances, when the income tax is reduced globally, it also affects the municipalities. Some municipalities think that there is less money in the municipal treasury if citizens enjoy a global tax reduction. It's a double-edged sword. I do not think that that system should be changed to ensure that when the federal government reduces taxes, it should compensate the municipalities to reduce that loss. The system is what it is. That's the way it is with raising taxes. This is a point which I do not think should be addressed, otherwise we are going to question the whole philosophy of the way in which personal taxation operates in this country at local and regional level. Minister, I think it is a very good proposal, which responds to many of the questions that have been formulated by the municipal authorities for many years. I am glad that it was adopted unanimously in committee. As Mr Deseyn and Mr Smaers have said, I can say that our group fully supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u145	Mr President, I did not intend to speak specifically, since this is an absolutely consensual proposal. That being said, I am concerned about certain elements, particularly in Mr Laaouej's statements. I was pleased to see that Mr Laaouej was pleased with a proposal tabled by a parliamentarian and relayed by the majority. Well, no, because in the end, he can't help himself! It is the most delicious parliamentarian that can exist outside parliament or television channels. But as soon as a media is present or the debate is public, it must necessarily hit the government. I'll tell you something. I have been on the communal council of my city for 35 years; I will soon begin my thirty-sixth year of office. I've also been a burgundyman, finance alderman, etc. Well, the successive finance ministers during these 36 years – I still remember Philippe Maystadt – had all promised that we would go in the direction... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u146	I even had another life, dear comrades of the PTB, as a member of another party, from which Finance Minister Philippe Maystadt promised this kind of reform. Here, we must really be happy with this reform, without hesitation, Mr Laaouej. I would also point out that, in a way, this failure to implement a promise made was clearly due to the fact that the commons money was being used as cash by the federal government. In this case, the more we go towards improving the budget deficit – which I hope will one day become a budgetary balance – the more we will make sure that the federal government's use of municipal money will become less frequent. I come to the reservation expressed by Mr Laaouej. We have a folk group in Wallonia called "Les mô contints". It's a shame because I love him very much, but Mr. Laaouej makes me think about it a bit. The tax shift, which it criticizes, may contain a negative element for the municipalities at first jet; but let us not forget that this tax shift benefits our citizens, since they are less taxed. As Mr. Van Rompuy, "too much tax kills tax." In this case, in the long run – and I think the Minister of Finance shares this sentiment – this measure will contribute to the development of economic activity and bring about so much by taxing less. We're moving in that direction. As far as society is concerned, one can always defend a conservative or pastist conception. For my part, I prefer the reformative vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u147	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are adopting an important draft law. This subject has already been discussed on several occasions in the Finance Committee and in the plenary session. We are now establishing a fixed system for the flow of income to the municipalities. That is the essence of the story, so that municipalities do not have to withdraw money quickly for a few weeks before a certain deposit, for example, in order to make certain payments. It is very important that a fixed revenue stream is finally properly regulated. That is the essence of the present design and most cities and municipalities are very happy with it. It's a big step forward. However, contrary to what others here sometimes say, this does not mean that local authorities are exempt from their obligation to ensure fundamental budgetary balances and proper income from municipal expenditure. Far too often the municipalities come up with additional questions. We stand one year before the municipal elections about the revenue flows in relation to their expenditure. At that level, the Minister of Finance will not contradict me. There is still a deficit in the area of local authorities. That deficit must also be addressed in one way or another. The present draft law does not exempt them from the mandate they have. I would also like to see the same effort made by the VVSG and other institutions on this bill, a fair and good draft, in balancing municipal income and expenditure. It is time that this was done in such a way that a few small percentages of the total reporting to Europe could be corrected. This can be done perfectly, and it can be done in many areas, but the supervisory authority, both the Flemish and the French Community, must take responsibility for this. A number of financial operations are under way, such as mergers of municipalities, but there are other possibilities for certain services to work together so that the costs of the municipalities can be reduced. It is basically a second task. It has little to do with the present design, which ensures the flow of income, but we must also look at the flow of expenditure. That is the task I would like to give to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u148	Mr President, I would like to begin by responding to Luk Van Biesen. I speak from experience, and not just from myself. Most, if not all, local authorities have tried to balance their accounts in budgetary terms, especially on the expenditure side. I think the local authorities really don't need a finger from the Chamber to tell them what to do. They have a great financial responsibility which they fully assum. Minister, we have discussed this bill on several occasions in committee. That is a common concern. If it's okay, I'd love to say it. It is not the first time that we have approved something that brings you to Parliament. Today, we will support this 100%. This is a good thing for the municipal authorities who are not financially comfortable. In addition, if the impact of the tax on people is uncertain, it will be very difficult. You are resolving that today with this arrangement, which is a good thing. Congratulations! We will support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u149	Mr. Speaker, without taking away anything from the positive remarks I made about the bill, I would nevertheless like to allow myself, as Mr.Vanvelthoven has just done, to dilute somewhat the enthusiasm of our colleagues in the majority. As Mr Vanvelthoven said, local authorities are well aware of the need for budgetary balance. They are so aware of this, Mr Van Biesen, that the latest analyses of communal accounts and budgets reveal that, contrary to what was happening in previous legislatures, there is not, for the moment, a rise in investment, generally attributed to the electoral cycle. Although the communal electoral deadline is approaching, the municipalities are exercising extreme caution in their investments. This is proof that they are aware of their obligations. This is also proof that they anticipate a negative effect of the tax shift. I don't want to fuel controversy. We can discuss the positive effects for the citizen. However, for municipal managers, the tax shift inevitably leads to a 10% reduction in revenue from the additional to the PPI. These are the FPS Finance figures. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is not because Mr Flahaux is celebrating his birthday today – and I congratulate him on that – that the local authorities are celebrating!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u150	Mr President, of course I also welcome this progress. I would just like to answer this to my colleague Dispa. One of the reasons why municipalities are cautious and no longer invest is also the blocking of investment capacity as it is established in the Walloon Region, as part of a misinterpretation of SEC standards. It is the beacons that hinder the investment of the municipalities. I know of communes that do not have a loan at all, that are ready to invest and that cannot do so because of these beacons. In statistics, we have the impression that this is prudence. This is not prudence at all; it is a Walloon block to the investment of municipalities who know what they are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u151	Mr President, I would like to thank everyone for their support for this draft law, which has indeed been delayed for too long. There are related discussions about the effects of the tax shift. I fully agree with Mr. Van Rompuy. You can't adapt the law every time something changes. In addition, there is a positive effect of the tax shift for municipalities, particularly as regards job creation. For the rest, the debate on public finances and the role of everyone remains eternal. The federal, the regions and the communes have a role to play, but the debate will take place first and foremost between us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u152	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u153	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2576/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2576/4) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u154	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u155	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Van de Velde and Mr Deseyn, refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u156	Mr. President, please excuse me. This text is, of course, in the right direction. However, my attention has been drawn to a provision which subjects to the discretion of the competent authorities – which may mean "administrations" – the right not to transmit the information. This aspect seems to me to empty the building of its substance. The minister's answer is that the problem lies in the directive, which should therefore be reviewed. However, this is a real concern that I wanted to point out. I therefore refer to my arguments made during our discussions in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u157	Mr President, as Mr Laaouej has pointed out, this discussion has already taken place partly in committee. The directive is now known. Without a doubt, we can do more, but I prefer to work on a European scale, which is the only effective context for action in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u158	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u159	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2563/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2563/04) The draft law contains 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u160	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Order of business Order of business Ladies and gentlemen, I have to ask you whether there are still a lot of speeches planned, because if that is the case, I must now suspend to reset. If there are few more explanations, as I can derive from the documents before me, we can continue. Meanwhile, the buffet stays open until 21:00, which appointment has been made. I only have Mr Vercamer, Mr Vanvelthoven and Mr Laaouej who have been registered as speakers. I believe that we can continue when I see how few statements there are left. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u161	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u162	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u163	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2585/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2585/3) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u164	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u165	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u166	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u167	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2586/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2586/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u168	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u169	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Crusnière and Mr Van Biesen, refer to the written report. I give the floor to Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u170	Mr President, I would like to return to this bill, which we have discussed extensively in the Finance Committee, and in particular to the problem of whistleblowers. Indeed, the Minister's response in committee does not seem to me to be entirely in line with the regulations. What is it? In article 13, paragraph 4, the Government provided for the possibility for the King, on the advice of the FSMA, to provide financial incentives. On page 129, paragraph 4, I quote: "The King may, on the advice of the FSMA, provide for the granting of financial incentives to persons making an alert referred to in paragraph 1. It shall determine the terms and conditions of such granting in accordance with Article 32(4) of Regulation 596/2014." This paragraph was deleted by the majority. The majority has tabled an amendment to withdraw this paragraph. However, when we were surprised, I was able to understand the arguments related to the danger of commodifying the phenomenon of whistleblowers. I therefore proposed to the majority that a system of compensation should be considered. In other words, it was a question of whether one can ensure that someone who, because of the information disclosed, loses his salary, is dismissed, is subject to trial... can receive compensation rather than incitement. To that end, the Minister replied that the compensation existed, since, I quote, "when a worker reports an offence, a measure or treatment adopted in violation of the provisions of paragraph 1 (market abuse), he or she is not reinstated in the undertaking or institution, or is not reinstated in his or her position prior to the terms and conditions that existed prior to the termination of the employment relationship or the amendment of employment contracts, and if he or she has not filed the application referred to in the preceding paragraph, an allowance is due." I therefore refer to document 2504/004, page 18. And to continue: "The compensation paid is equal to the worker's choice, either a lump sum corresponding to the gross remuneration of six months or the actual damage suffered by the worker. In the latter case, the worker must prove the extent of the injury. This system, said the Minister, is based on the system of protection against violence and harassment at work." End of quote. Okay, I take note of that. But the Minister's response provides compensation only in the context of unfair treatment, which is provided for in paragraph 3. Paragraph 4 was not so limited. In other words, the paragraph deleted by the majority went far beyond what was provided for in the current paragraph 3. Therefore, it seems to me that clearly, the majority has turned back on financial incentives. I heard the arguments. But our amendment, which nevertheless wanted to restore the principle of full compensation, no matter what, brought something to the bill. The answer provided by the Minister did not exhaust the problem. In other words, yes, there are compensations that are provided but with a limited scope. It is therefore to regret that I must deplore this and consider that, unfortunately, whistleblowers on the problem of market abuse will not be as well protected as I believe a number of civil society actors, starting with the whistleblowers themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer you to the discussion we have had in committee on the protections provided for whistleblowers. I believe, moreover, that Mr Laaouej referred to the answers I gave on this occasion, which have not changed since then.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u172	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u173	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2504/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2504/7) The draft law has 40 articles. The bill has 40 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u174	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u175	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u176	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u177	The other rapporteur, Mr Vanvelthoven, also referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u178	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that the transposition of these directives is an imperative in the fight against money laundering in general and the financing of terrorism in particular. But there is something that we have not understood during our exchanges in committee, that in the definition of precious materials, a definition on which the scope of the entire prohibition of payment in cash will depend when it comes to a merchant who buys the so-called precious materials, we find gold, palladium, platinum and silver, but not diamonds. There have been physical, chemical, etc. explanations, but it is nevertheless true that the explanatory memorandum, as an example, contained the case of a gsm set with diamonds or gold, which was said to fall within the scope of the exclusion from the prohibition of payment in cash. Based on this example, it was asked why diamonds were not included in the definition of precious materials. We were then explained a series of elements from a variety of reports indicating that there was a particular sensitivity to money laundering in diamond transactions. It doesn't hold up the road. We were also read an excerpt from the 2015 FATF report recommending an increase in the controls of the Economic Inspectorate in the diamond sector. Again, there seems to be a special regime for diamond transactions and this sector. After taxation, now the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. There is something that we do not understand and we do not admit. All this creates a kind of nebula that ultimately serves neither the interests of the sector, which appears to be protected, nor the clarity of government policy. I repeat that in the area of taxation and the fight against money laundering and organised crime, if we are to have the widest possible support, we must have equal treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u179	Mr President, I would like to make three brief points. We have had an interesting discussion on this bill in committee. I think I can safely say that I am not the only one who regrets the way in which I work. Only a few days before the committee meeting, we received the whole conversion of more than 700 pages, which made the work difficult. The fact that we have had to wait a long time for the implementation of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive has led us not to resort too much to formalism and yet to take part in the positive flow, which has also been demonstrated by the discussion. However, these are things that both Members of Parliament and members of the government must absolutely try to avoid, because that is not a good way of working. We have had a substantive discussion on what should be covered by the cash ban. The threshold is currently EUR 3 000, making us, as it were, a precursor in Europe with our stricter rule. This threshold is maintained, and that is absolutely a good thing. I would just like to comment on the discussion that was held in committee on a stricter ban on cash payments for precious substances, because we would have liked to add diamonds to that. The government has chosen to exclude diamonds from the ban on cash payments for precious substances, and to make an exception, but that is contrary to what is stated in the explanatory memorandum. We then got the explanation as if the explanation would be an older version, while after a thorough discussion they chose to make an exception for diamonds. In other words, the explanatory statement was in fact no longer coherent with the text that we are being put to the vote. Apart from that textual problem, we truly regret that diamond has not been added. We have tabled an amendment to that effect in committee, which was voted down by the majority. We regret that because it has just been found in our Finance Committee through the various leaks that the diamond sector is constantly regarded by international organisations, but also by our own BBI, as a highly fraud-sensitive sector. Allowing the exception for this sector is, in my view, the wrong message we are sending as a Parliament. I therefore regret that this amendment was voted down by our group. I would like to make one final point. We had questions at the UBO register, the register of final stakeholders. We had understood from the texts that this register would not be accessible for investigations of our own tax administration in the context of tax fraud. During that discussion, the Minister told us that there should be a distinction between access to the register and access to the information contained in the register. There would also be KBBRs on the way to defining and clarifying that. If that really means that the information from the register is readily available to our tax hunters, then that is a good and necessary thing. I would like to raise this point because we agreed that, when the texts are ready, we could discuss it in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u180	First and foremost, I apologise for the fact that this discussion has indeed gone far from optimal. This was due to circumstances, such as the late release of texts. It was not just a few texts, if I remember correctly, but six or seven hundred pages. However, we are trying to ensure that such situations no longer occur. As far as the diamond is concerned, I am not going to repeat all the arguments I have given in committee. What Mr Laaouej and Mr Vanvelthoven are saying is correct: in the case of the ban on cash and the noble substances involved, we have excluded diamonds. In addition, we did not go over one night of ice, which happened after a deliberate reflection on what is going on in the diamond sector. This has to do, among other things, with the fact that, of course, by compliance issues, that is evidently the diamond sector today has a huge problem in terms of acquiring bank accounts to do transactions. By bringing down the cash limit further, we'd have put it very neutrally, I'd have made things even more difficult. A second element is that Belgian banks are also very reluctant about cash payments. They are reported within certain limits, which of course also applies to diamonds. Furthermore, it is important that a specific feature of the Belgian diamond trade means that it mainly concerns trade in rough diamonds, held by traders with whom no significant problems of theft, healing, robbing groups and the like have so far arisen. Finally, as I promised in committee, there will be a discussion there on the CABs on the UBO register, which are on the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u181	Thank you, Minister. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u182	We have discussed the articles of the Bill No. 2566 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2566/4) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2566. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2566/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in - Bill on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and the restriction of the use of cash." The title in French has been amended by the committee in draft law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and the limitation of the use of cash." The draft law contains 192 articles. The bill has 192 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u183	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We have discussed the articles of the Bill No. 2567 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2567/1) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2567. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2567/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u184	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u185	Mr President, this draft needs to be dealt with bicamerally. The second part, about the Council of State, still has to go to the Senate. I don't know if the Senate is in recess, but it has to go to the Senate as soon as possible. He'll have 14 days to replicate. I don't know when the deadline is due. I don't know the technical side. At least it'll have to go to the Senate after we've approved it. There is a period of fourteen days in which it can be evoked, but the Senate is no longer convened. Maybe there's some sort of consultation? I'm not a specialist on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u186	Indeed, the Senate is no longer planning to meet. The recess doesn't start until August 8. That means that this design, if it is not evoked, what will be the case, can become just law. This was taken into account in the parliamentary conciliation committee, where it was settled by consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u187	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Stéphanie Thoron, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the chapters on social affairs are mainly technical, such as the implementation of IPA and the agreements between the social partners. It is important that we approve them, but I would like to use the discussion of these articles to bring two issues to the attention of my fellow Members and the Minister. Firstly, this draft extends the possibility of granting innovation premiums to innovative workers. I would like to point out, particularly when we see what has appeared in recent months in the area of wage policy, that there is a new trend in wage policy that is devastating for our social security system and its financing. Without any hesitation, companies and organisations are currently advised to consider the amount from which they should no longer pay regular wages. Companies and companies are advised, in writing, that the best thing to do from 4 203 euros is not to pay regular wages, but to pay extra-legal benefits. There are over 86 of them today. This is because EUR 4 203 is the wage ceiling. From that amount, there will be no refund of social security. Up to the amount of EUR 4 203, which is the ceiling for the pension, contributions will be paid for which they will be refunded. Above that ceiling of EUR 4 203, as an individual, we are supposedly not getting anything back from social security. However, the contributions that are paid on top of that are vital to finance the solidarity that is embedded in social security. That's really becoming a reprehensible system. The companies are constantly advised on this. I informed Madam Secretary of this in committee. We must act urgently against this or take accompanying measures to reduce it, otherwise we will go to an insurance system and no longer to a social security system in which solidarity is preserved. Firstly, we need to think about a system whereby we still have the amount above the ceiling of EUR 4 203 included in the pension or something. Secondly, we need to consider whether we should not set a maximum percentage of gross wages that can be given extralegal benefits on top of a regular wage. If this trend is confirmed and if this becomes a normal way of working, where we pay only a regular wage up to the gross wage for which we get something from social security, this means that our social security system is simply being undermined. I would like to bring that to the attention of my fellow Members and the Minister. For the interim sector, the provision is made that the periods without a temporary contract are equal to periods of activity, at least if the worker has been hired by the temporary agency with a contract of indefinite duration. That is a good thing, without a doubt. However, the problem of the abuse of day contracts remains. Yesterday I had a discussion with the artists' sector. The abuse of day-to-day contracts in the interim sector is a real success. I believe that we must take measures to strengthen control of this. Above all, we must make it easier for inspectors to do their job. I propose that we have all day-to-day contracts processed electronically, so that all these day-to-day contracts are in a database, and that our inspectors simply have automatic access to that database, allowing them to carry out the checks they want to do and not be hindered by any administrative duty. Thirdly, we must also impose stricter sanctions, and those who abuse them must be punished financially. I would like to draw attention to these two points in the discussion of this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u189	Mr. Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we recognize that there are positive elements in this bill, including measures to implement the interprofessional agreement. I am thinking, among other things, of the extension of innovation premiums and changes in the field of occupational risks. In contrast to these measures that we can support, which transpose and implement the interprofessional agreement, there are others that make us experience a series of difficulties. We have reservations about the future of social security financing. I agree in part with the comments of my colleague Stefaan Vercamer. I am also curious to see what is going to happen at the time of the budgetary discussions, since you are now in IKW, discussing a budgetary adjustment. The concern, in fact, is not about expenditure, but mainly about revenue. In this regard, we will see what the Minister, the government as a whole and my colleagues on the CD&V will be proposing. We also have reservations about the reform of social inspections. You know that we are extremely attached to this triptych articulated between the Social Inspectorate, the police and the Justice, with the work auditors. You have decided, at the level of the government, to undermine this triptych, which was functioning particularly well. We'll see what happens in the future. Finally, we have far greater difficulties with the form. Indeed, the management of this file has been, for various measures, totally disrespectful of the rules. I would like to mention two of them here. First, there was a clear lack of social consultation. Even though they should have been consulted, the social partners in the public sector have not been consulted, even though they are measures which demand it, since we are talking here about the various aspects of the organisation of working time in the public sector and the determination of the average daily wage. Minister, you did not hesitate to send the ball back to your colleagues, saying that it was the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Public Service who should have done so. Excuse me, but you're here to introduce a government bill. So your personal responsibility, as well as that of the entire government, is fully engaged. It is totally unacceptable that you decided to sit down on social dialogue, allegedly because you were in a hurry to move forward because of the July 21 deadline. You could have done it before. A second element on the form that is problematic is the non-consultation of the Privacy Commission's opinion with respect to the transmission of data by the medical consultant. We repeated it in committee. You explained very modestly that the so-called Council of State would simply have been wrong. I have full and complete doubts about this. I'm not following you. You should have done it. This is obviously an extremely sensitive issue with regard to patient data. It has also been heard, in recent days, that the medical data of 500,000 patients have been Royally hijacked in terms of data preservation at the electronic level. This is totally unacceptable and demonstrates that the locks are not necessarily sufficient and respected. In this case, the Privacy Commission should have been consulted. It is not up to you to say that you are complying with the relevant legislation. It is up to the Privacy Commission to confirm whether or not privacy legislation is properly respected. Mr President, we will not vote against it, but we will abstain only because of the transposition of the implementation of certain aspects of the interprofessional agreement. For the rest, I've been clear enough. You have heard our reservations, and even our regrets, especially in relation to social consultation. Dear colleagues on the CD&V, you did not address this issue. Maybe you should have.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u190	Mr Vercamer, I agree with you that the abuse of these day contracts should be addressed. The electronic declaration will also make this easier. The control of these Dimona declarations is therefore very important. The artists enjoy a separate statute. It is also a separate and very diverse sector, with all the understanding for it. However, when evaluating the artist's statute, we may need to consider the possible abuses there, which will make it possible to build up few social rights, which concerns us all. So we need to increase the scope a little bit. We were both there when the very flexible artist's statute was created by Mr Vandenbroucke. It turns out that this has had some negative consequences. Mrs Fonck, we have already discussed your comments in committee. I have read from the opinion of the Council of State, in which he states that the counseling physician would no longer take on that task. On the other hand, the legal text states that the counsellor will do that. If you put those two side by side, Mrs Fonck, then even if you may have a different pair of glasses than I do, you can only decide that the Council of State has made a mistake. Moreover, if we do not change the role of the counsellor, I do not see why we should seek an opinion from the Commission on the protection of privacy. You then bring in the hacking of the electronic waiting room, which has indeed happened. But I immediately take the opportunity to underline that that has nothing to do with the government and the eHealth story. After all, this is a private project, on which doctors call to make their agenda. I don't want to minimize the facts. After all, it is about patient data, and it should be better protected, as we do. Now it is known who made an appointment with which doctor. However, there are no data from the patient's medical records. I do not approve of that, but I would like to emphasise that it had nothing to do with what the government is now setting up around eHealth and mHealth. A private initiative is also considered sufficiently secure. I think the people involved know that too. Again, it has nothing to do with our projects. You have to be careful and you can't get such facts into the discussion. You have admitted that the text contains a number of positive things, such as the implementation of IPA. You asked, together with others, why the text does not accept the innovation premium but other IPA measures. I have explained clearly in committee that we have included in this draft various provisions the measures for which I have joint competence with Minister Peeters, Minister Borsus or Minister Vandeput. For the implementation of the IPA, the IKWJS are now in the process. That will, of course, take a few months. This also shows the social partners that the government is working on the agreements they have made and that we are continuing to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u191	Minister, I note that, as usual, you only answer what you want to answer about. Nothing about social consultation. Nor did any comment on the financing of social security in relation to the problem, not of expenditure, but of revenue. On the other hand, as far as the sending of patient data is concerned, of course, I am not referring to the doctor-counsel. The problem is not the doctor-counsel, it is to whom the doctor-counsel sends the data. I have already explained to you a long time ago that in the context of e-Health, where you persist in working on data that allow us to trace up to the identification of the patient, it is possible via an alternative to the benefit of everyone, including the patient, to set up a random identification and, in this context, to completely protect the patient's identification data when their consultation is not allowed. On this point, you persist in remaining in a register without taking into account positive alternatives. I'm sorry. This is not only a personal opinion, since it is also something that has been analysed and proposed by doctors, who are themselves specialists in all computer components and who have done a thorough analysis of the subject. It's from the field. I think you've been widely warned about this. I regret that, but on this aspect, as far as you are concerned, you did not bother to consult with the Privacy Commission to see whether or not you fully complied with the legislation. Mr President, we are not going to repeat the whole debate in committee here. However, in this reply, I would like to recall that with regard to two bills of the government, the latter of the law on various provisions "Social Affairs" but also that of the law on various provisions in the field of health, the government arrived as a rider of Offenbach, with 1000 pages (twice 500), which were provided to Parliament only 48 hours before the debates in committee. It is therefore not surprising to see that social dialogues have been boycotted or that legislation has not been complied with. In this respect, Mr President, I can only re-plorate him, and I call on you to do so. We have been very constructive in committee, but it is not acceptable, at the level of Parliament, to work with so little rigour and, ultimately, so little compliance with existing legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u192	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u193	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2592/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2592/3) The inscription in French was changed by the committee to "Projet de loi portant des dispositions diverses en matière sociale." The title in French has been amended by the committee in draft law on various provisions in social matters." The draft law has 66 articles. The bill has 66 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u194	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u195	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Wollants refers to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u196	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2583/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2583/3) The title was changed by the Commission to "draft law amending the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gas-like products and others by means of pipelines and the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market with a view to reducing the costs of the construction of high-speed electronic communications networks." The title has been amended by the committee to "Bill amending the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipelines and the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market, with a view to reducing the cost of deploying electronic broadband communications networks". The draft law contains 17 articles. The bill has 17 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u197	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u198	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u199	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u200	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u201	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2570/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2570/1) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-plenair-ip181x.u202	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 20 July 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 20 July 2017, at 2.15 p.m.
