ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u1	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, here is a topical issue. By the time I introduced my question, the latest initiatives you have announced were not yet known. The subject of my question could therefore be somewhat adapted. We know of the bloody attacks that have hit several European countries in recent weeks, as well as, no doubt, other parts of the world. I will refer in particular to the attack on the city of Barcelona last August. Very quickly, it appeared that the perpetrators of these attacks were radicalised alongside the Imam of Ripoll, Abdelbaki Es Satry, who stayed three months in Belgium, in Vilvorde, between January and March 2016. During this period, the Imam of Ripoll attended the Youssef mosque in Diegem. Like him, many "itinerant" preachers travel in Europe, sometimes in Belgium, or are contacted by mosques in order to preach there for a few weeks or longer. As a result of this information, you have announced your willingness to invite the Belgian Muslim Executive to ask each mosque, whether recognized or not, to report the imam who would be invited to preach there and to communicate this information to the State Security. It is not obvious to justify at the legal level, but I understand and share the objective. I can agree with the meaning of your approach, but there are legal obstacles and I would like to hear you on this point to see how far you have progressed in a dialogue with the Muslim Executive on the objective you have set yourself. I would therefore like to thank you for taking stock of this issue. Since then, you have announced other initiatives to control the financing of places of worship. We will discuss this in other debates, but in this case I am referring specifically to the announcement you made following the attack in Barcelona in late August.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u2	Mr Maingain, with regard to the follow-up of imams and preachers active in recognized and unrecognized mosques, I welcome the intention of the Belgian Muslim Executive to call on all mosques to transmit the names of imams and preachers unpaid by the SPF Justice. This would allow the Executive to exercise quality control and, if necessary, also provide these names to the State Security. I have invited the President of the Executive to make this appeal as soon as possible for the direction of the mosques and to appoint two contact persons within his administration, which will enable the Executive to continue and intensify its contacts with my services. It is true that there are no legal instruments of pressure to persuade mosques to pass on these names. But this should not prevent the public authorities from supporting the Executive in this regard by making this appeal and giving it the necessary priority. Finally, I would add that such an initiative has been taken despite the recognition of mosques. The implementation of this recognition on the integration, transparency and monitoring of these mosques is a much more effective instrument for achieving these objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. As I said, I agree with your willingness to work with the Muslim Executive to better identify preachers who would stay in Belgium. I wonder if there is any coordination at European level with regard to access to the territory of the Schengen area, in particular, so that there is an exchange of information. These preachers usually do not go to one country. I believe that there may be a need for a unified procedure at European level as to the conditions for access to Schengen territory, or even to the European Union more broadly, so that we can even have traceability – excuse the word that I do not like to use for people. I thank you for perhaps taking the European dimension into account in the policy that needs to be pursued to prevent certain types of risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u4	Minister, I've been following this case for a long time. I admit that I am somewhat disappointed because the funding of the Brussels Support Centre for the follow-up of sex offenders remains a difficult problem. Indeed, I regret the absence of a clear initiative, unless you deny me, to remedy it. In my previous questions, I have often recalled that this centre is a core mission. Since 2015, this organization has been required to reduce its grants by 20%. This decline is heavy and poses a serious threat to the fulfilment of its tasks and even its existence. At the end of March 2016, the Brussels Support Centre received its subsidies for the current year, i.e. €145,800, compared to €182,000 in 2014. It should be recalled that 90% of this envelope is used to pay salaries. That is to say, the margin of manoeuvre is narrow. In reply to me in June and October 2016, Mr.Minister, you were transferring the problem to the federated entities, because of their competence in terms of post-penitentiary accompaniment – via the assistants of the houses of justice – by pointing out that you had "requested the support centres to meet with the Communities, as they have become competent in this matter, since the houses of justice were transferred to them as part of the Sixth State Reform – support for sex offenders being a customizable matter". However, I do not believe that this statement is entirely valid. First of all, it was the federal state that created the support centres, but you will tell me that this was a time when there was not yet a debate on the distribution of competences. Furthermore, Articles 5 and 6 of the Cooperation Agreement of 13 April 1999 between the Federal State, the Joint Community Commission and the French Community Commission on the guidance and treatment of perpetrators of sexual offences further specify that the federal State is obliged to allocate the necessary subsidy for the performance of the legal tasks of the Centre. To my knowledge, this agreement has never been called into question. In the face of the Centre's difficulties, the Brussels Minister of Health to the French Community Commission has nevertheless granted it an exceptional grant, and I would say almost as a rescue. This is still modest in view of the budget reduction of the subsidy granted by your authority. This exceptional financial aid from the French Community Commission only offset the losses of 2015, which are essentially, if not only, due to bank interest and delay which this association pays in the absence of reliable and lasting subsidies granted by your ministry. As a result, the Support Centre, in its latest activity report, confirms that your department has still not found a structural solution to ensure the sustainability of the support centres and that, on the contrary, the grant has once again been reduced by 20%. Minister, I'm asking you again. What structural solution do you envisage to allow the CAB to continue its legal missions after 2017? Is this dossier the subject of consultation between the various levels of power and the management of the Centre, so as to involve it in the search for a structural solution? Is there a negotiation at an inter-ministerial conference to formalize a new burden-sharing between the various authorities and to amend cooperation agreements taking into account regional specificities? I would remind you, however, that the Brussels Support Centre, of all the support centres, has the most important task, because of the number of people who address it. It is probably the support centre which, by reducing federal subsidies, is the most penalized of all support centres in Belgium. This had been demonstrated in previous questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u5	Mr Maingain, first of all, I would like to point out that in recent years I have always kept my financial commitments. Grants have always been fully released and paid to support centres. This was not obvious because the Finance Inspectorate has always required us to compensate for the lack of linear savings, whether or not the appropriations have been charged. I do not intend to put an end to the operating subside of the support centres after 2017. My services are consulting with the Communities on the distribution of competences so that they can then consider the various reforms of the State in this area. It is undeniable that the tasks carried out by the support services since 1998 are also, and perhaps above all, within the competence of the Communities. I therefore call for consultation and updating of the cooperation agreements. Cooperation must lead to better funding for support centres that have been in uncertainty for too long. With a view to a further meeting with the Communities, a preparatory meeting with the support centres was held on 8 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u6	Minister, thank you. Invariably, I mean that there is a process of consultation. We're giving an agenda, but I don't see any concrete results coming. I do not entirely follow your reasoning, since, even though some of the funding may come from the Communities, the work of the support centres is done at the very heart of the judicial institutions, therefore in a logic which still falls within the competence of the federal authorities. Irrespective of the debate on the distribution of competences, it is necessary to consider whether these policies are being pursued. I do not think it is desirable to abandon them. It is known how much support for sex offenders remains, in Belgium, in comparison with other countries, limited in terms of capacity. We need to invest. The lack of a more shared policy – of which you may be the initiator – to strengthen the prevention of recidivism is regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u7	Minister, at Lantin Prison, the psychiatric annex would not have enough places for mentally ill prisoners. Some of them were therefore transferred to the conventional wings of the prison. Once again, the Paifve social defence institution, right next to the Lantin prison, which transfers the supernumerary internees to the psychiatric annex of the Lantin prison, which, in turn, transfers the supernumerary internees back to the conventional wings of the prison. As a result, internees find themselves overnight deprived of regular care and essential treatment, which compromises their own health and also the safety of co-prisoners and prison guards. Such a situation demonstrates once again that even after your legislative reforms, there is not an appropriate response to the European Court of Human Rights' requirements regarding the fate of internees, in particular the need to immediately transfer accused persons with serious mental disorders to an appropriate care facility, as soon as the expert report is submitted concluding with an internment measure. So, Minister, what about the situation in Lantin in particular? What was the conclusion of your meeting on 19 June with the ESTIM mobile team in Lantin, as announced in response to a question from my colleague and committee chairman Philippe Goffin on 7 June? What assistance can it provide in the care and rehabilitation of interned patients? What measures will be taken to prevent the transfer of internees to places where they cannot receive adequate care? When will the 240 places in existing legal psychiatric care or regular care facilities in Flanders and Brussels, as well as the new legal psychiatry centre in Wavre, provided for by the Masterplan Prisons and Internance, be operational? Should this Masterplan not be updated to take account of new needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u8	Mr Maingain, first of all, I would like to make it clear that there are no transfers of supernumerary internees from the Paifve social defence institution to the Lantin prison. The only cases that are transferred to this institution are internees who are the subject of a new arrest warrant. Furthermore, internees who are in Lantin, or in the annex to the polyclinic in the women's district, and for a patient, in a section of ordinary law, are, without exception, cared for by the care team. The fact of staying in the cell does not in any way imply a lack of care. The psychosocial service, the prison health-care service, the welfare services for litigants, as well as a mobile team, are working together to establish cooperation to make care more efficient. Various working meetings were able to emerge, among other things, concrete proposals for interventions by the three justice services, and an intensification of the care of interns by the mobile team. Platforms for consultation between Public Health and Justice have been established. In this context, direct contacts through the care coordinators of the two entities are established, to ensure that available places are allocated as quickly as possible. With regard to the legal psychiatry centre in Wavre, but also those in Paifve and Alost, the preparation of the terms of reference for the appointment of a consulting office is under way, in close consultation with the SPF Santé publique and the Régie des Bâtiments. The precise planning is not yet available, but Masterplan 3 foresees that in the year 2021 these two projects should be carried out. With the additional capacity of 860 places planned, the objective of establishing a suitable infrastructure for all internees staying in prisons will be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u9	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer. My assertions were not an invention on my part. This information has been received by some trade unions. You tell me that there has been no postponement of the population from Paifve to Lantin and I take note of it. I will not fail to share this information with those who provided me with information to the contrary. For the rest, of course, I am not unaware of the willingness to carry out the long-awaited project of creating places in Wavre. I hear that a consulting office is going to be designated, so we are still far from implementation, but we know the administrative procedures and the procurement law. More generally, I return to this concern. Assuming that we have no capacity other than to use the traditional wings of prisons for a number of inmates with serious mental disorders, is it operational that a mobile team goes to the scene every time? Is there no need for permanent supervision? Indeed, it is a workload for prison guards, but above all a mission for which they are not trained, which often leads to a certain abandonment of these detainees under conditions unworthy of our rule of law. I know, Minister, that you have undertaken some initiatives to address this situation. You may even be the Prime Minister of Justice to take stock of this situation; yet it would be necessary to give guarantees of the stability of the accompanying teams of these detainees. This worrying situation is not only due to the convictions of the European Court of Human Rights, but also to the regular questioning by the Prison Observatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u10	Mr Maingain, you have the floor to put your question No 20689, which is attached to Question No 20963 by Mrs Uyttersprot. The latter cannot be present to ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u11	Mr President, by way of galanterie, I do not want to ask my question if the minister provides me and Mrs Uyttersprot with a written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u12	Thank you, Mr. Maingain. Questions Nos 20689 by Mr Maingain and 20963 by Mrs Uyttersprot are therefore transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u13	Minister, as of 1 January 2018, all local authorities will only deliver extracts from the central criminal record. That question has long lived on the ground, and it is a good thing that it will finally be settled. The delivery of the extracts will therefore no longer be done via the municipal criminal register. Today, the majority of local authorities already request the extracts from the central criminal record via an application. From the municipal criminal register an extract could be printed that thanks to the layout fit into a window envelope and was therefore ready to send, which obviously has practical advantages. For privacy reasons, extracts may not be delivered digitally, but they may still be delivered by post. However, I am told that the extracts from the central criminal record would not be ready for dispatch in terms of layout. I therefore have a very practical question, Minister. Is it not possible to work out a practical solution to this problem, so that officials do not have to write the addresses manually on an envelope, which also implies a certain sensitivity to error? Are there any other problems with the extracts from the Central Criminal Register? If so, will they be addressed and resolved in full?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u14	Minister, as Mrs Van Cauter said, a more comprehensive central criminal record is currently under way. That register will contain not only the sentencing messages, but also enriched information. These include friendly settlements, prohibition of contact and electoral disbarment. That way we get some sort of criminal record. The measure also aims to reduce the workload. The municipal criminal records would cease to exist. By 1 January 2018, all extracts from the criminal record intended for private individuals would be delivered on the basis of the data contained in that central criminal record. The municipalities would thus become counters. However, as Mr Van Cauter pointed out, there are still many bottlenecks today, which do not reduce the workload. I am thinking, among other things, of the registration of friendly solutions, the delivery of blank extracts, as well as the use of the type form. As Mrs Van Cauter pointed out, the layout of the extracts from the central criminal register is not adapted to window envelopes. It's kind of crazy that they didn't think about it. One cannot send this via e-mail, because there is privacy in the area. I checked with my administration in Archangel, and now everything has to be sent in a white envelope. One has to write the names and addresses on them. This may lead to mistakes, which fortunately does not happen very often, but it is also a huge extra work. That's not the only bottleneck. Judgments would normally enter the Central Criminal Register since 15 June 2016. However, the municipal authorities still have to enter the convictions in the municipal register. Moreover, anyone who consults the central criminal record today is very often informed that the extract is not available, which means that an extract from the municipal criminal register still has to be issued. So we will continue to do double work. As bottlenecks remain, the workload for the municipalities has not yet been alleviated. Minister, what solutions are being worked out to deal with the many bottlenecks that the field of work is currently experiencing with the introduction of the central criminal register? What is the current state of play on the introductions into the Central Criminal Register? Will the deadline of 1 January 2018 be maintained, if by then the numerous bottlenecks still remain unsolved?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u15	Mrs Van Cauter, Mrs De Wit, the services of my department concerned, the Central Criminal Register and the ICT staff are aware of the practical problem raised. It was already discussed at the meetings of the working group of the project Connection of the municipal authorities to the central criminal register. This working group is composed of the two recently mentioned services of the FPS Justice and also of representatives of the associations of cities and municipalities and of the services of the criminal register of a number of cities. A technical solution will, of course, be developed in the shortest possible time. Other improvements in the use of the Central Criminal Register are still on the agenda. For example, I mention the possibility of delivering a blank extract on the basis of the central criminal record. Today this is still happening on the basis of the local criminal record, after the central criminal register was consulted. The task of the Joint Working Group is, inter alia, to make the application of the Central Criminal Register as user-friendly as possible for the municipalities and thus to reduce the workload of the various actors in the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u16	Minister, it is a good thing that it is being worked on, one step at a time. I think it's going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u17	Minister, I am glad to hear that a solution is being sought. I just didn't hear whether or not the deadline will be met? If it is shifted, it is important that it is properly communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u18	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 20754, 20756, 20966 and 20761 by Mr Hedebouw, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and Mrs Uyttersprot are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u19	Mr President, Minister, on 25 January 2017, I asked you a question about the problem of ammunition in the justice palace. It is reported that there are still five tonnes of ammunition in the Brussels Palace of Justice, in the department of beliefs. The FPS Justice would not have the appropriate permits to store such quantities of ammunition. Is that correct, Minister, and can you tell me, if necessary, what measures are being taken to ensure the safety of the staff, but also of the visitors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the issue of the environmental permit has already been explained here. This mentioned a quantity of 450 kg of ammunition even though the infrastructure in the Brussels Justice Palace allows for the correct storage of more than 450 kg of ammunition, this network because it has to be used to the maximum on its disposal. It is therefore no longer possible for the quantities which are now present and which are still in storage to be fully regulated. Therefore, on the basis of the Protocol with Defence, the relevant Registrys of the Courts of First Instance in Brussels set up a disposal and destruction operation with DOVO to remove confiscated small-caliber ammunition from the Brussels Palace of Justice. However, it remains a fact that ammunition seized on a very regular basis is brought into the Registry so that it requires a continued effort by the judicial services to dispose of the volumes received for destruction in close and systematic cooperation with DOVO. In addition, the magistrates have a range of instruments, including regulatory ones, to limit the influx of ammunition and other dangerous substances by deciding on their destruction in good time and while the procedure is still in progress. In addition, it is foreseen that all beliefs will end up in a central and more secure warehouse in the future. To this end, a need programme specific to Brussels will be drawn up by my services, which will be transferred to the Directorate of Buildings after approval of the Finance Inspectorate with the request to implement this programme. Pending this, a new environmental permit will be applied for by the Government of the Buildings as the owner of the Brussels Justice Palace, together with the FPS Justice as the occupying government of the building. Since the aim should remain to limit the storage of ammunition as much as possible, the same amount of ammunition will in principle be included as initially in this new application.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u21	Minister, I have two further questions to which the answers could give me some comfort. Firstly, may I conclude from your answer that it is now perfectly safe in the Brussels Palace of Justice, even though there is 50 kg more ammunition than the 450 kg provided for? Secondly, there will be a central warehouse to store ammunition safer and better. What date is the opening of this warehouse scheduled?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u22	Question No 20719 by Mrs Özen is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u23	Mr President, Minister, in a large-scale investigation into trafficking in human beings, Justice lost important telephone taps. As a result, the court in Brussels had no choice but to exonerate a smuggler. According to Luc Hennart, President of the Tribunal in Brussels, Justice must ensure that the necessary equipment is available for permanent storage of equipment such as telephone tapes or camera images. If action is not taken quickly, he fears that a judge will have to exonerate more people. I have the following questions. First of all, how are phone taps and camera footage stored? Secondly, how long are phone taps and camera footage stored? Thirdly, what measures will you take and what instruments will you make available to prevent such incidents from happening again in the future? Fourthly, was a disciplinary investigation initiated at the expense of the person responsible for this acquittal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u24	A President of a Court of First Instance, like all members of the judicial order, must exercise elementary caution when speaking to the press. There is a risk that the judicial organisation will in general be discredited by statements which are later found to be unfounded. The case you're referring to is evidence of this. I will write a letter to the chairman concerned. The prosecution informs me that, as a result of an acquittal which has had a great deal of publicity in the press, the Registry has carried out the necessary checks. This shows that the conversations had not disappeared at all. Envelopes with the DVD containing the interviews submitted to the Registry and never opened. It also appears that there has never been a request to consult them or verify their existence. I cannot comment on the reason why the court has established this disappearance which in reality did not exist. It is possible that a statement by the defence who complained that it had no possibility of consulting the talks was not further verified. The court would appeal against this acquittal, which would undoubtedly enable this situation to be rectified. As regards the way in which these means of proof are kept, the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that they are to be submitted to the Registry under sealed cover. They are kept in the form in which they are delivered by the police forces. Usually this would be a digital form, for example a DVD. Persuade documents of a criminal record which may be used as evidence should in principle be kept until the case is finally settled. Until recently, these evidences could not be kept with the police once the investigation had been concluded. The law on special detection methods, adopted in committee last year, introduced the possibility of keeping a backup of these telephone calls on a police server in order to avoid the risk of data disappearing at the Registry. Such a disappearance, which has not occurred here, is not entirely impossible, for example by an accident or an act of malice. This backup is therefore a useful measure and technical implementation is under way. In the present case, there is no problem in maintaining the means of proof as claimed. Nevertheless, I would remind you that we anticipated any problems by adopting legislation last year which would allow back-up. This is also an opportunity to remind you of the reluctance and caution of all the actors of justice who speak out in the media.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u25	Thank you, Minister. I am pleased that you will show that it is not possible for such matters to be distributed in full in the press without a subsequent correction. After all, that leads everyone to a bit of a stray. However, according to your answer, there were or were no problems with "disappeared" telephone taps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u26	Mr President, Minister, every day 12 Belgians commit a hit-and-run in an injury-damaged accident. Last year, in our country, 4 937 victims were killed in hit-and-run accidents, of which 21 were killed and 233 were seriously injured. The association Rondpunt and the VIAS Institute recently organised an online poll in which they questioned 650 Flemings about their attitude to a hit-and-run. The results are at least remarkable. For example, 7 out of 10 Flemings understands someone who in panic commits a hit-and-run. Furthermore, 29% of respondents would not report family or friends, should they have drove away after an accident with victims. If they themselves were to damage a car without a driver, 15% would sneak on. So 70 % makes sense of hit-and-run as a panic reaction, which is a hallucinating figure. The results show that more than ever there is a need for a coordinated action plan. I hear from the press that you are advocating simulations during driving training, in order to better prepare people for situations of panic while driving. However, Flemish Minister for Mobility Ben Weyts was or is not aware of your idea. This is, to say the least, remarkable. Road safety is not federal or Flemish alone, it is a concern for all levels in Belgium. On October 1st, the renewed driving training started without the new program paying attention to panic reactions after a hit-and-run and how to deal with them. This is not part of the curriculum, says Flemish Minister Weyts. A coordinated action plan at national level is therefore needed to reduce the number of escape offences. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, do you think it is necessary to draw up a coordinated action plan on refugee offences and therefore to consult with Flemish Minister Ben Weyts? Secondly, if so, will you draw the coordination of the plan towards you, or will you stick to statements in the press, with the result that the situation will remain as dramatic as it is now?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u27	Mr President, Minister, Mrs Lambrecht has already outlined part of the question. The week without a hit-and-run is just over. There has indeed been the survey mentioned. It's true that 7 out of 10 Flemings understand a hit-and-run. We are looking at that figure. 30% would not indicate a family member in the event of a hit-and-run. You and the Federal Minister of Mobility have drawn up a bill for a stricter punishment. It is now before Parliament. There is therefore an intervention. However, there was also a traffic psychologist who argued in favour of more emphasis being placed on civicism and moral values in driving training, not only in terms of repression but also in terms of prevention. That's obvious. In addition, there is another specific aspect at the police courts themselves. You know as well as I do that, technically speaking, a hit-and-run, as we know it today, can be rewritten or requalified to not staying on the scene. If that happens, it could have serious consequences. In fact, there are several limitation periods. Crime has a limitation period of 5 years, while for non-on-the-spot it is only 1 year. If the case isn't brought to court in time, the victim's bad luck. If, at the request of the accused, the request for re-qualifying is accepted, it is also very often necessary to decide that the matter is time-barred, leaving the victim empty-handed, at least in that procedure. In that case, there is only civil procedure left to claim damages. Minister, how do you assess the survey mentioned above, which shows that there is a great deal of understanding for a criminal offence such as a hit-and-run? In social media, there's a lot of incomprehension for the unsub. However, when it happens in its own environment, there is more understanding. Will you refer, as Mr Lambrecht says, to your colleague Weyts? In the context of the sixth state reform, there are very often lengthy discussions between the Federal Minister and Minister Weyts on who is responsible for what. Will you call on your colleague to pay more attention in driving training to the response to an accident and the avoidance of escape offences? The next question is important from a legal and technical point of view. You are currently rewriting the Criminal Code, including the offences. Can a solution be found for the limitation period in this respect? In the text of my question submitted, I wrote "denaturated crime," but it is actually a requalification, namely the conversion of the hit-and-run to the non-on-the-spot. In the event of requalification, there is suddenly another limitation period. The victim has little to do with this, because it has to do with the length of time during which a case is brought to court. I find that an interesting slope and we are sitting here in the perfect cockpit to solve that problem. I would have liked to know what your intentions are in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, Mrs De Wit, I would like to point out that with my colleague in Mobility, as Mrs De Wit has already pointed out, I have drawn up a draft law which was approved by the Council of Ministers and which, as a guiding principle, is that serious traffic offences should be dealt with more effectively, including in the area of recovery. It is precisely the problem of the refugee offences that is one of them. Flemish colleague Ben Weyts gave a positive opinion on that bill. With regard to the other content of your two questions, the following. Personally, I do think that hit-and-run is a serious traffic crime. That is why Mr Bellot and I also propose a more stringent approach. The first aim is to avoid responsibility for the accident and often cover up other crimes such as drunkenness or lack of a valid driving licence or insurance. In addition, there is a failure to assist the victims in the event of accidents involving injuries and to inform the emergency services. So I have little understanding of these facts. Road safety is a matter for all policy makers in this country, both federal, regional and local. I am happy to participate in a new policy and to consult on driving training and other sensitising measures, although these are not the responsibility of the federal government. My recent appeal, which you speak of, is a first step. I would certainly like to contribute to improved driving training in response to an accident. In general, Mrs Lambrecht, it cannot be said that I am restricting myself to statements in the press. If you have a different view, I'd like to hear it. Facts of a hit-and-run are due to expire after 3 years and not after 5 years, as you indicate, according to Article 68 of the Road Traffic Act of 16 March 1968. By interrupting the limitation period within that period it is therefore a maximum of 6 years. In my draft, I increase the limitation period for most traffic offences, including not staying on the scene after an accident, from 1 to 2 years, and thus in the event of an interruption from 2 to 4 years. For the serious crimes such as hit-and-run, it remains 3 years. Consultation of the site, both police and magistrate, shows that this must be sufficient for timely and correct treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u29	Minister, I am pleased that you are taking on such crimes as much as we are. If you could tell me that there is already a date for consultation with your colleague Ben Weyts, I would be even more pleased. Then I know that you will come together effectively. Your very good idea to include in driving training a part about how to deal with panic situations gets my full support. I am glad that we have something that we can fully work on together. Has a date been set for consultation with your colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u30	Minister, you are right about the limitation period. However, there is still a problem with requalification. Even if a consultation of the field teaches that there is no problem, I think it should be possible to bring it to the plenary session in good time. However, we note that this does not always happen. A statute of limitations is always unfortunate. That may happen, but a victim should not be the victim of that. I think it is an interesting idea to check when there is a requalification, what should or should not be done with that limitation period. I will think about this myself, because I believe that any limitation period, however unintentional it may be, should be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u31	Mr Minister, Article 242 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that, in cases before the Court of Assists, the parties may obtain a free copy of the complete file. This, of course, facilitated the work of lawyers and the bourgeois parties. The question arises as to whether Article 242 can still be applied to matters previously brought before the Court of Assists and which have now been corrected. Can the lawyers in question still claim a free copy of the criminal record in the event of a corrected criminal offence or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u32	Mr Terwingen, the extension of the correctness of crimes does not affect the applicability of Article 242 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Only for the procedure before the Court of Assistes there is the possibility of a free copy of the file for the accused and the bourgeois party. One of the reasons is that this procedure is entirely oral and virtually all witnesses and experts are called to a hearing and can be questioned on the basis of the written documents in the file. In any case, the intention is to digitise the files completely. Then a digital copy will be delivered. We examine whether the digital copies can be delivered free of charge, given the limited workload to make them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u33	Minister, it is certainly not the answer that the confrer who suggested to me the question was hoping to get. You understand that, too. We will wait for digitisation. Perhaps we should consider whether Article 242 could be tightened up in the meantime in some way, so that things that have been corrected and come from assists could still be included. Your answer at the moment is quite clear, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u34	Questions 20885 and 20887 by Mr Flahaux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u35	Minister, Mohammed Aytekin was convicted in January of this year of a hit-and-run accident in which he caused the death of a 12-year-old girl. He was sentenced to an effective five-year custodial sentence. A few months later, he was suspended for health reasons. In the last week, the criminal court would have decided that the conditions had been violated and that the person concerned would be deprived of his freedom once again in order to suffer the remainder of his sentence. However, according to what I read in the newspaper, the person concerned would have been lost to the police and to the Justice Department. Hence the following questions, Minister. Under what general and special conditions was the person released? Were these terms and conditions immediately included in the National Database? Were these conditions controlled by the police? If so, in what way? Were they linked back to the D.A.'s office? Was a judicial assistant designated for the follow-up of the terms? Did the prosecutor order the provisional arrest at the time of the prosecution's initiation of the case with a view to withdrawing the conditional release? Have there been any contacts between the public prosecutor and those responsible for the prosecution, in particular the police and the judiciary? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u36	As regards your first question, Mrs Van Cauter, the general condition for the medical release is laid down in Article 75 of the Law of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of the convicted person, namely, that of not committing criminal offences. The special conditions were: to have a fixed address, to respond to the calls of the police, the prosecutor's office and the judicial assistant, to cooperate in the supervision, to compensate the victims, to visit no convicts or ex-convicts, to consume no alcohol or drugs or to go to such occasions, to carry no weapons, to drive no motor vehicle and not to leave the Belgian territory. As regards your second question, Article 74 (4) of the Act requires the inclusion of decisions and conditions in the ANG. The chief of police of the residence must also be informed. Both happened in this case. As far as your third question is concerned, the local police of his place of residence confirmed that there were no problems with the person concerned during the period of provisional release and that he always cooperated in the control of the conditions imposed on him. The police's control could therefore have been done adequately. As far as your fourth and sixth questions are concerned, the criminal justice court entrusted the French-speaking justice house of Brussels with the task of supervising the fulfilment of the conditions. This is the application of Article 75/1. The justice assistant reported on the guidance given to the prosecution. The counseling went without any problem. I shall then come to your fifth question. A provisional arrest is only possible if the person concerned, during the period of release, seriously endangers the physical or mental integrity of third parties - offences, Article 79, §1 and that was not the case here. Your question or suggestion that the prosecution should have ordered the provisional arrest at the time of the initiation of the procedure for withdrawal is not only illegal, see Article 79 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, but also violates the principles of humane treatment and the rule of law. Locking up a person by the prosecution at a time when a judge has not yet ruled that the detention is once again compatible with his state of health would seriously destroy the earlier judgment. This kind of detention or decision of the prosecution, pending the judgment of revocation, would be a violation of the guarantee of the freedom of the person. The person concerned had not committed any criminal offences or infringed the integrity of third parties. Both you and I are committed to preventing too much of the arrest period, and we therefore need to deal with the lack of freedom before a judge intervenes. I would like to point out that in this case the court has played its role both in fact and in law. On the basis of medical reports, including by independent experts, the criminal execution judge considered that detention was incompatible with the state of health. As the previous answer, conditions were imposed, the decision was communicated and incorporated into the ANG and there was guidance from the courthouse. The prosecution has appointed a medical examiner to strictly monitor the state of health. This was made possible by potpourri II. The D.A. initiated the withdrawal procedure at the appropriate time. On 27 September 2017, the criminal execution judge again gave an informed judgment on the revocation. This sentence was notified within 24 hours to the convicted person, who offered himself in prison on 29 September 2017. With regard to the seventh question, the consequences of being equally unaccounted for will later be assessed by the criminal execution court when it takes decisions on possible further modalities of execution. Finally, within its legal powers, my cabinet has had several contacts with the parents of the victim Merel. The parents were also received together with other advocates of safer traffic in my cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic741x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can only conclude that progress has indeed been made in monitoring and checking conditions. Your answer shows that when a verdict was passed in March, which was immediately annotated in the ANG. This was not always the case in the past, with all the consequences, such as the fact that the local police did not even know that they had to check conditions. Your answer shows that this has not been the case in this case, so that is certainly a step forward. You also say that the police did indeed check the special conditions, including the address of the person concerned and the response to calls from the police. I take your answer for what it is and I do not wish to question it, but it seems difficult to reconcile it with the fact that, at the time when the release of the person concerned was revoked, it was not immediately possible to find him with a view to his transfer. Eventually, the power of the law did not bring the person concerned to prison, but the person himself, who offered to do so. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you to clarify once again, I assume that you have already done so and do exactly what was going on. I would ask you to consult with the public prosecutor, so that we can get things moving. You say that my question is suggestive, as I would have suggested that in this particular case the provisional arrest of the person concerned should be ordered. However, I have only asked whether the provisional arrest was ordered, not with the intention of suggesting anything illegal, but sometimes there are circumstances which require that a provisional arrest of those concerned be effective. You assure me that this was not the case in the present case, because the person concerned would not have committed any crimes. I take note of that. I can only agree that, like you, I too share the principle of the rule of law, which I would like to respect, in difficult cases as well.
