ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u1	Minister, you are aware of the issue, of course. It is about making homes accessible, and in particular promoting the integration of homeless people by having a home. That is one of the priorities of the OMCW. However, the labour court in Antwerp recently decided that the granting of an installation premium should not depend on the quality of the home. When a homeless person has found accommodation, help is needed from the OCMW. The installation premium is a means for the OCMW to fight house milkers, and unfortunately there are still so many. The Labour Court's judgment states that there is no requirement for living quality in the legislation. That is correct, but I believe that this is an interpretation of the legislation which is not entirely in line with how the legislator intended it at the time. A person can only receive an installation premium once in his life. When someone stays in a poor quality apartment and uses the installation premium for it, he obviously loses that money when he leaves, and it is seen that this happens quickly in homes of dairy farmers. In the end, this investment will be for the benefit of the cottage milker, and that cannot be the intention. I believe that in some cases the OMCW may refuse the installation premium just for that reason. That doesn't happen to target the customer. On the contrary, this is done to ensure the fundamental rights of the customer, including a habitable home. That is why I am asking you the following questions, Minister. How do you stand with regard to this judgment? If the interpretation is correct, do you agree that there are gaps in the legislation? How are you going to fix that? I believe that fighting house milkers, precisely in order to protect the customer from further inconveniences, is in itself a good thing. What if that customer subsequently moves into another home and is no longer entitled to an installation premium? How do you intend to solve this problem? Would it not be a good idea to create a database of all unhealthy and uninhabitable dwellings, which can then consult all OCMWs in Belgium, so that the OCMW can discuss with him whether this is a good decision even when a customer moves to another municipality?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u2	Mrs Van Peel, thank you for your question. The judgment, delivered by the Labour Court on 7 June, stresses that we may not impose any additional conditions than those laid down by law to obtain an installation premium. The legislation on the installation premium does not say anything about the fact that the house has to comply with certain quality standards. I understand that it is necessary that the house is habitable. In the reading of the judgment, delivered by the labour court, the reasons for the refusal of the OCMW of Antwerp do not appear to be related to the habitability of the home, but rather to external factors such as the landlord's reputation or lack of maintenance. These elements can certainly affect the quality of life, but do not cause health risks to the tenant. I also note that, according to the judgment, the visit to the house, which is compulsory in the context of the social inquiry, does not mention that the house is uninhabitable, but rather obsolete. Social research and the home visit therefore seem to be fundamental instruments for verifying whether the home is habitable. That is why, as far as I am concerned, the legislation seems to be in line with the legislator's objective. The role of the OMCW is to support the social integration of vulnerable people. Access to a home is one of the elements that makes this integration possible. The finality of the measures is to finance the furnishing and equipment of the home. The installation premium contributes to this. I agree with you that it is necessary to fight against house milkers who benefit from the social despair of vulnerable people. This falls within the competence of the Regions and local authorities. In accordance with the legislation in force at the federal level, a person can only benefit from the installation premium once in his or her life. The OMCW therefore plays a decisive role in this. The installation premium makes it possible to finance both furniture and electrical appliances, household furniture and the like. In the event of a later move, the person who has already benefited from an installation premium must provide his or her installation in a subsequent home. However, we can assume that some of the investments made for his or her first installation will be able to be used again. At this stage I would like to evaluate the possibilities of granting the installation premium and the differences between the various refusals. Including the uninhabitable homes in a list could certainly be an interesting instrument. However, this is an initiative which falls within the competence of local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u3	Minister, unfortunately in this complex country, some things also need to be adapted to the local level at federal level. That is also the case. I understand your answer. It is true that part of the premium, or at least what was purchased from it, can be taken into account. Yet I see in practice that a lot of money is lost, for example for repainting houses while after a week the fungus is back on the walls. That is the reality. In itself, I do understand that certain OCMWFs, especially in Antwerp, now know about which landlords they are. I know that in Kapellen too and try to take a different position. As far as the installation premium and the relevant legislation are concerned, it is true that it is in accordance with the provisions of the current legislation. Perhaps there are some adjustments in that regard. There are, moreover, other problems with this legislation. For example, there are two different directives. However, I can tell you now that I will soon come up with a proposal to remedy this. Then we can discuss this matter further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u4	Madam President, Minister, the CPAS federations of the country's three city and commune associations have recently launched a call and made concrete proposals for the Special Council of Ministers announced on 10 June and postponed. I will not take up all the proposals because they have been relayed by the press. I'll just remember a few of them. In particular, CPAS advocates for a comprehensive strategy of federal authorities and federated entities. They request that the allowance for personnel costs in social integration income (RIS) files be increased or extended to include files related to the Integration Income Equivalent (EISR). On the other hand, each increase in the RIS should be fully covered by the federal authority so that the percentage of repayments gradually increases - the objective would be to reimburse the CPAS 90% of the revenues granted. They also call for an end to transfers of expenses to CPAS and for full compensation for new measures that would still have a financial impact on CPAS. Minister, a special Council of Ministers surely requires preparations to table proposals. So could you tell me whether a date has been set for this Council of Ministers on social affairs? Have you heard the CPAS call for a more ambitious policy? Are you planning, where appropriate, a meeting with the federations to better identify their requests? If this Council of Ministers is prepared for coordinated action with the federated entities and the Secretary of State for the fight against poverty, can we hope for a more comprehensive approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u5	Madam President, Mrs Caprasse, your question dates back to the eve of the Thematic Council of Ministers and was addressed to my predecessor. The issues it raises remain topical and the government is paying attention to them. This Council of Ministers took place on 26 July. As a result, the government presented both ambitious and coherent policy proposals for social integration, and important decisions were taken. These respond to several requests from CPAS federations. One of their main issues was the development of a road map to raise the lowest allocations to the poverty line. A commitment was made by the government to release budgets - from 2018 to 2022 - to increase social assistance allocations, including social integration income. The aim is to support the most vulnerable groups, especially the isolated. Other measures that fall within my competence, namely to grant additional resources to the FEAD (European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived), are also being examined. They are part of the government's policy of supporting CPAS. Moreover, this policy has already met certain expectations of the community. Last year, staff assistance was increased for the first time since 2007, Ms Caprasse, from 320 euros to 470 euros per file. Additional resources were provided in the Asylum Provision by means of a temporary increase in the reimbursement rate, in the order of 10%, for the files of recognized refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection. Resources have also been released in the context of the reform of the ISIP, with a view to hiring staff and thus enabling the CPAS to devote themselves to their primary tasks of accompaniment to persons. With regard to the consultation with the CPAS federations, I would like to stress - to take advantage of the opportunity to answer your question, and please forgive me - that I intend to follow my predecessor's line and, of course, maintain a continuous dialogue with those federations through quarterly meetings. Besides, the next one will be held very soon. In this way, I will persevere in the liberal-social logic that is mine, working on these measures with the presidents of federation in a dynamic of co-construction. Of course, I will act in a spirit of cooperation respectful of these organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u6	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer, which I will examine further. For the time being, I am pleased that an answer has been given to this question which was tabled before the holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u7	Minister, my question also dates back to June. So I'm going to sum it up. In June, several discussions took place on the permissible or non-licensed contamination thresholds for organic farming. I think the subject is not closed. The ambition was to set 0.000% pesticide presence, while the 2015 threshold came from a compromise and allowed for tiny doses. Large areas are known to invest more and more in bio. These items are produced more and more industrially. Imports are growing and increasing. The need for stricter provisions, which would be more controllable, on the absence of pesticides in organic food stems from this. In June, during the discussions, Belgium took a stand against the Commission's proposals. Indeed, Belgium wanted all Member States to introduce simultaneously thresholds for pesticides. Things have changed since then, and meetings have followed. I would therefore like to know Belgium's position at European level on these standards, which may be imposed on organic producers. I would also like to know about the capabilities of the AFSCA, its achievements and the controls actually carried out by the AFSCA regarding pesticide residues in imported organic products. Do you have any figures, minister? I have introduced another more specific question, but I am not sure I can ask it today. The one I am putting forward already concerns the principle of control of imported organic products.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u8	Madam President, if you ask your questions about your place as President, it means that you are a good President!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u9	The members of the committee told me I had to put it down from here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u10	This means that there is no doubt about your impartiality. Congratulations! The organic sector is very specific and is growing from year to year in Belgium, but also throughout the European Union. I believe that this is a good thing if it allows a fairer and more rewarding price to be awarded to our country's producers, while responding to growing societal demand. By way of illustration, according to Eurostat figures, in 2015 the European Union had more than 11 million hectares certified in organic farming or in the process of conversion, i.e. 6.2% of the agricultural area used. In 2015, nearly 271,500 European producers committed to this type of production. This gives an image of the extent of this positive phenomenon. As you say, discussions are currently taking place at European level to revise European legislation on organic farming. The issue was discussed at the Council of European Ministers of Agriculture on 12 June in Luxembourg, in which my predecessor participated. In view of the lack of support from the Member States for the compromise text on the table, the Commissioner for Agriculture, Phil Hogan, decided at the end of the sitting to set aside two problematic points in the proposed text: firstly, the possible establishment of a declassification of organic products with unauthorised pesticide residues is postponed by four years and, secondly, the derogation allowing greenhouse crops in ferries for the countries of the north of the Union will be maintained for ten years. In addition, on 22 June the Maltese Presidency transmitted a new draft compromise which the Council adopted on 26 June at an exceptional special agricultural committee. Belgium abstained, its abstention being linked to differences with the Regions. Madam President, you know that organic farming is exclusively a regional matter. It is clear that, in this context, I can only invite those who wish to have further information to speak at regional level. To answer your question about pesticide residue controls, they are conducted by the AFSCA to verify compliance with the requirements of European Regulation 396/2005 on maximum residue limits for pesticides. This Regulation applies to food and feed, without any distinction between traditional and organic production. It is only within the framework of the Community multiannual and coordinated control programme, designed to ensure compliance with maximum residue levels of pesticides in and on food and to assess consumer exposure, that the AFSCA programmes a limited number of controls on organic products. Nine samples from organic production were analysed in 2016 as part of this coordinated programme. Of these nine samples, one sample of tomatoes contained a pesticide residue trace but met the maximum residue limit set out in Regulation 396/2005. These are the things I can bring you today. Of course, I have no problem giving a few figures in response to an oral question. If you want more information – I tell all parliamentarians – it is more convenient to work with written questions. I have prepared some of the answers that contain numerical elements. I have paintings, but I'm not going to tell you about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u11	Minister, thank you. In reply, I would simply add that this subject is difficult. The farmer himself must respect standards, but there is also the problem of contamination by other neighbouring non-organic farmers. I think that we will have to address the issue at some point as well. If we want a rate of 0.000 % of pesticides, we will have to work on the accountability of the polluter of organic farming when the organic farmer himself respects the rules. This is obviously a larger problem, but I think it will be inevitable in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u12	Minister, your department's policy note mentioned on page 26 an ongoing reflection with the Ministry of Public Health on the possible reorganization and optimization of the FPS Public Health and AFSCA services related to the safety of the food chain (including animal and plant health). We then asked your predecessor whether, as part of this reorganization, he did not intend to require the publication of the statements of interest of the experts of the AFSCA Scientific Committee. We felt that it would be beneficial to do so, especially as the EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) and the Higher Council of Health do. Your predecessor had told us that the publication of conflicts of interest is a normal procedure that is transparent from the moment the experts give guidance. Minister Borsus was therefore not opposed to this idea and said he wanted to discuss it with the relevant interlocutors. On February 22, 2017, in response to a first oral question on the subject, he replied that he had asked AFSCA to analyse, together with the Scientific Committee's officials, the possibility of making statements of professional interest public in general. A final response was expected at the end of April 2017. As the deadline is now over, I would like to ask the functional minister about this. Minister, do you intend to require the release of the AFSCA Scientific Committee's expert statements of interest? If so, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u13	Mr de Lamotte, I will answer you as functionally as possible. I confirm that the general statement of interest of the members of the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA has been published in the meantime. Indeed, in plenary session on 19 May 2017, the members of the Scientific Committee agreed on a model general declaration of interest and on its publication on the website of the Scientific Committee. A page explaining how the Scientific Committee guarantees its independence has also been added to the website. My predecessor also approved the new version of the rules of procedure and it was published on this website. This further reinforces the measures already mentioned in the response provided by my predecessor on 22 February 2017, which referred to the measures taken by the Committee itself to ensure the transparency of its operation. We have therefore made progress on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will go to the AFSCA website. I think this is a step forward that can be highlighted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u15	Madam President, something has gone wrong here. This is one and the same question that has been asked several times and has received several songs. Minister, the Centre for Integrity of the Federal Ombudsman would have recently found that the BFSA contains illegal practices in the recruitment of staff in senior posts. A report would show that part or the entire summit of the BFSA would have been involved in this in one way or another. It's called integrity violations, and that practice would be thriving at the BFSA. In practical terms, this is a system of promotion in which the first-ranked persons were known by name in advance, a kind of promotion procedure to order. Firstly, are you aware of the report with number 2016/0003/N/01, Minister? Secondly, are you prepared to submit the report to Parliament for inspection? Thirdly, if the BFSA summit is involved in integrity violations, you are responsible as the overseeing minister for the further handling of the problems. Have you taken measures following the findings of the investigation or are you planning to take measures? What timeline? Fourthly, do you consider that a thorough recast or restructuring is at issue in the BFSA? Fifthly, can any sanctions be followed, when has it been proven that the violations of integrity are a fact? If so, will you impose it? If not, why not? Finally, how do you estimate the inevitable impact of mismanagement on the functioning of the BFSA and our food safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u16	Mrs Dedry, excuse me, I do not have the translation of my answer. So I have to answer in French. Mrs Dedry, I have indeed taken note of the report of the Federal Ombudsman which you referred to. It had been communicated to my predecessor, who had obviously studied it carefully. On the basis of all the elements of the file, it came to the conclusion that no irregularities requiring additional measures such as restructuring or sanctions could be found. In so doing, it decided to terminate the procedures referred to in the file for reasons of legal certainty. All concerned were notified of this decision. The latter does not change the fact that the PSAB evaluates the procedures that are being discussed on a regular basis and that further clarifications are provided where necessary. As the new Minister responsible, I believe that this case is closed. Moreover, the distribution of the report does not fall within the rules governing the publication of administrative acts; the Ombudsman considers it to be a secret of the investigation. So I can't go any further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u17	This surprises me, because I have been able to look at the report and I thought it was worrying. Your predecessor, Minister Borsus, said here in committee that he had put the appointment procedures on hold. That is not something I think one does; the conclusion is clear. Can I also receive the answer, Minister? It's easier for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u18	Question No 19545 by Mrs Evita Willaert is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u19	Madam President, Minister, last year the BFSA carried out nearly 120 000 food safety control emissions on more than 66 000 businesses, including traders, large kitchens, catering and agricultural businesses. Almost nine out of ten regular checks had a favourable result on the basis of a checklist. Farms in particular received a very high score, especially for infrastructure, equipment and hygiene. Perhaps the principle of auto-control has something to do with this, because out of the 23 600 companies with a validated auto-control system there are no less than 19 000 active in agriculture. In other sectors, the number of firms with such a system is increasing slowly, but their share is generally not yet sector-wide. In the hospitality industry, for example, it's sad. In 2016, only 775 hospitality stores had a validated autochecking system. Horeca operators who do auto-checking clearly come out better of a check than those who do not. This year, the BFSA gave all audited companies the opportunity to express their views on the services. More than 5 500 operators responded, including a significant number of farmers. Weird but true, it turns out that the latter, the best students in the class, together with the suppliers, are the least satisfied. That's a contradiction, isn't it? I have two questions for you, Minister. Will you go into consultation with the agricultural sector to find out what his concerns are, despite his high score in the field of food safety? Is it being considered to reduce the levy to zero for companies that have a validated auto-control system and consistently achieve good scores?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u20	Madam President, Ms Gantois, during May 2017, a satisfaction survey was carried out among the operators controlled by the BFSA in 2016. With 44% of operators who scored 8/10 or higher, the primary sector achieved the lowest result. However, the sector is showing a positive trend, +9 %, compared to the 2013 survey. In addition to this satisfaction survey and in order to prepare the Agency's new business plan, a qualitative survey was carried out. The aim of this survey was to identify the vision and expectations of all the Agency's stakeholders. In addition, the primary sector actors were questioned in their opinion. In addition, their views on the functioning of the Agency were asked. Finally, this survey, the results of which were presented at the Advisory Committee on 20 September 2017, will shortly allow a SWOT analysis to be prepared. This advisory committee represents the agricultural organisations, the BFSA, the GBS and the Boerenbond. They are also consulted on a regular basis on the expectations of the sector through consultative committees and bilateral consultations. The results of this survey and the proposals of the sector organisations will be used to develop the new business plan 2018-2020. Following on from your second question, I can answer that a full exemption is currently not planned in the budget. I would also like to inform you that last Friday the Council of Ministers adopted a draft royal decree amending the Royal Decree of 10 November 2005 on levies. The aim of this design is to exempt small operators in the primary sector from paying a contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that regular consultations with the sector, and in general with all sectors, are very important. So I'm glad to hear that there's a meeting going on. I also hope that the comments and concerns will be taken into account when the BFSA prepares its new business plan for the following years. What you say about the exemption is, of course, good news. I would like to know which companies are eligible for this. In any case, if auto-checking works properly, this will result in fewer controls, which will reduce costs and reduce the number of visits to the companies. I believe that a win-win situation can also be created on the financial front. Those who do their job well, those who are good students, deserve the exemption. In fact, that is the best way to encourage people to carry out checks properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u22	Mrs Gantois, I am sensitive to the fact that there are a number of incentives for self-control when the results are good. I have told you that this is not foreseen in the budget plan at present, but I remain open to working on this. Today, I am not in a position to go further – as the outlook is not open from a budgetary point of view – but I agree with you on the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u23	Minister, I take note of your reply and will continue to follow up on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u24	The question nr was asked to be included. 19970 by Mrs Rita Gantois and Question No 20023 by Mr Gautier Calomne, both of which concern the inoculation of bluetongue vaccine by breeders. As Mr Calomne is not present at the moment, I propose that you ask your question No. 20134. The organization of questions has apparently been a little complicated since the beginning of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u25	Madam President, Minister, the fipronil issue has awakened. The product is prohibited, but has been found and found in eggs intended for the food chain. We have already mentioned it a few times. The scandal has come to light after an auto-check by a private holding of laying hens. The BFSA was somewhat dependent on pursuits. I'll put that aside. So it's obvious. If the sector checks itself and checks it properly, it will provide prospects for the future. We have already said at the special sitting that this can be done, for example, by using blockchain technology. Blockchain technology is a technology known from the digital coin bitcoin. However, it can also be used in many other domains. The technology simply helps to follow the journey of the product in the form of a digital passport for each product. A QR scan is simply used. For food safety, this can be significant. At a glance, it is clear where the product and the ingredients come from. A whole range of food multinationals, including Unilever and Nestlé, are already in the process of rolling out blockchain technology in order to better capture the production chain from raw material to finished product. Consumers, governments and civil society are increasingly concerned about food quality, the environment and working conditions. There is an increasing need for transparency, including in the food chain, which is also necessary if we are to ensure confidence in our food. Blockchain technology offers new opportunities and is a powerful weapon in the fight against food fraud and in the fight for consumer confidence. Mr Minister, is there any willingness to develop such a technology? We do know that this cannot happen overnight in the medium term in our food chain? Are we moving in that direction? What steps do we take if necessary? If we do not, why do we not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u26	Mrs Gantois, as you know, the primary responsibility for a food-safe product lies with the operators. They should take the necessary measures by means of self-checking to ensure that products comply with the traceability requirements at all stages of production and distribution under their management. The BFSA, as the competent government, then checks whether the operators have implemented the auto-control and whether it complies with the necessary requirements, in accordance with EU rules on official controls. Although operators must, of course, respect quality criteria, whether they are a food-safe product or the introduction of efficient traceability, no means of commitment is imposed. This means, in concrete terms, that operators have the choice to use any means to meet the traceability requirements. The BFSA then checks that these resources comply with the legal requirements. New technologies such as blockchain technology may help operators, but it is not a matter of making the use of this technology compulsory. Blockchain technology is interesting for operators. It certainly offers new opportunities in the fight against food fraud and the strengthening of consumer confidence by promoting transparency. Hence the development of this blockchain technology is closely monitored by the services of the BFSA. However, it will take time to encourage all operators to use them at every level of the chain, especially since it will have to be easily used by all actors, including small businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u27	Minister, of course the responsibility lies with the operators, even now and with the existing systems. However, there is no waterproof system. We noticed that last summer. However, I find it interesting that you say that the BFSA succeeds this. It's actually about more than just quality. One can follow the whole way of a product where one can also immediately see how all intermediate links work. At the end, for example, it is also possible to determine whether the farmer has been properly paid and whether the sector is on the right track. This is also very important for agriculture. In addition, it is also interesting for the future to know who produced products from third world countries. When one knows who has done the work, one knows it when it is children or people who are underpaid. The system actually offers a lot of possibilities for transparency. It will therefore also meet the consumer's demand to a large extent. I understand that this is still future music, but I do not think we can ignore this. We have to keep following it and stand by it, including with the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u28	Mr Minister, since 2015, the bluetongue virus is once again very active in France. That is very close and we must make every effort to prevent it by means of vaccination. In the spring of 2016, a first order purchased 2.1 million vaccine doses using resources from the Sanitary Fund. Cattle and sheep farmers were encouraged, but not obliged to protect their animals by vaccination. The vaccination had to be carried out and registered by the veterinary surgeon, who acts as intermediary. That wasn't easy. It is assumed that it is the easiest way to vaccinate all animals for the grazing season, but at the start there were still animals that had not received a vaccine. What happened? Veterinarians had a number of vaccines in proportion to the number of cattle and sheep in their own clientele. There were veterinarians who were deficient in vaccines, while other colleagues' vaccines remained unused in stock. vaccines were exchanged among themselves, but sometimes things went completely wrong, because the willingness to vaccinate in livestock farmers fell once the animals had moved to the meadow. For this reason, Minister Borsus allowed the next vaccination campaign, this autumn, to be carried out by livestock farmers rather than by veterinarians. That is an exception to the law on the practice of veterinary medicine. The veterinary association is absolutely not happy with this decision and fears that not all farmers will vaccinate correctly or fully or keep the vaccine properly, with the risk of a bluetongue outbreak. In what way will the follow-up take place in practice? How is the effective administration of vaccines monitored? What happens to farmers who are sloppy or not vaccinate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u29	Madam President, Minister, following the resurgence in 2015 of bluetongue, better known as blue-tongue disease that mainly affects sheep, your predecessor has launched a voluntary preventive vaccination campaign. Vaccines were provided free of charge by the Health Fund. According to the information available on your website, two million doses were administered in 2016 in Belgium and just over one million doses this year. However, it appears from the evaluation that you requested from your administration regarding the choice of strategy for the continuation of the 2017-2018 vaccination campaign, that the sector's motivation for preventive vaccination is very low. A problem was also raised. In the past, vaccination had to be carried out by a veterinarian. However, your predecessor has announced that as of next November, breeders could carry out such vaccination themselves, but only if a guidance agreement is concluded. Minister, what is the current rate of vaccination of sheep in our country? Have there been any cases of contamination in Belgium to date? Are farmers of other types of ruminants at high risk of contamination? What are the reasons for this sector's relative lack of motivation for vaccination? What are the estimated costs for the 2017-2018 vaccination campaign? What progress has been made in the negotiations for the establishment of the above-mentioned guidance convention? What risks do breeders face in the event of vaccination without the presence of a veterinarian? Would certification for the export of livestock for animals vaccinated by a breeder be possible? If so, what obstacles could be encountered? Are there any further legislative improvements in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u30	Madam President-in-Office of the Council, first of all I would like to inform you that Belgium has no longer known cases of catarral fever since 2008 and that vaccination campaigns are carried out on a non-binding basis. My services are currently discussing the practical organisation of the follow-up to the vaccination campaign with the agricultural and veterinary organisations. Those talks will be concluded in the coming months. In any case, vaccination can only be delegated to a farmer if that farmer has a farm guidance contract with his veterinary surgeon and the veterinary surgeon provides him with the vaccines. This veterinary farm guidance and its modalities have been laid down in the legislation since 2000. It is not, therefore, a question of negotiating veterinary farm supervision contracts because they already exist legally. The follow-up and traceability directive requires wholesalers supplying the vaccines to report on a monthly basis. In this way we will have a stock of vaccines and we will know which veterinarians have provided vaccines and what quantities of vaccines they have provided. That reporting will be maintained. Veterinarians should in turn keep records indicating on which farm they have administered or supplied a veterinary medicinal product. Where farmers administer veterinary medicinal products for the purposes of farm supervision, they shall also indicate in the farm register which animal has been treated. The delegation of vaccination is therefore very strongly framed. The BFSA and the FAGG ensure compliance with that legislation. In all cases, only animals vaccinated by an approved veterinarian may be certified. Mr Calomne, therefore, there has been no change at this stage in the provisions in force. They guarantee the credibility of Belgian certificates and a key tool for our exports. As already mentioned, farmers are free to vaccinate or not. They know that their animals will not be protected if they do the wrong vaccination. They shall therefore in principle ensure that this vaccination is carried out properly. Breeders who vaccinate themselves are not exposed to any risk, if they do so under a guidance contract and compliance with the legislation. If these provisions are not complied with, the wrong-doers will be at risk of a report of an infringement. The Regions may also take measures vis-à-vis breeders as part of the premiums they award. In addition to sheep, goats and cattle may also contract the disease. The vaccination rate in 2016-17 was approximately 70% in the sheep sector and 30% in the cattle sector. Experts plan a voluntary vaccination rate of 20 to 25 per cent in the event of a vaccination campaign. The vaccination campaign can be considered a success, even if we were hoping to achieve better results. Fortunately, the fact that the disease did not arrive in Belgium in 2016 probably explains that some breeders did not consider it useful to vaccinate their livestock, but I call on them to do so. It would be wrong to get out of the effort because the disease is not in Belgium. Everyone who follows the file knows that contamination can go very quickly because the disease is transmitted via flies, aphids, etc. Since borders are permeable, I really call for further efforts to be made in this area. In fact, I have communicated this to my services. With regard to the 2017-2018 marketing year, costs cannot yet be estimated as this will mainly take place next winter. I give you additional information on the costs: the vaccine cost 48 cents a dose for sheep and 76 cents a dose for cattle. Since the start of the 2016 season, nearly 2.8 million doses have been administered to cattle, 220,000 to sheep and 3,500 to goats. Distribution and storage costs amount to a total of 130 000 euros since the availability of vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can only agree with you. I believe that we must continue to sensitise our farmers and our agricultural sector. When there is an outbreak of bluetongue, the milk sector, which is only coming out of a deep valley and which is currently achieving significant results, is the first victim. As in the previous vaccination season, we must be careful to ensure that all available vaccines are used properly. They should not stay in the refrigerator with slightly less motivated or less organized farmers or veterinarians while others who do want to vaccinate should experience a shortage of vaccines. That did happen during the previous vaccination season. My appeal is to sensitise the sector to vaccinate as much as possible and to ensure that bluetongue remains far from us, but also that all vaccines are used very effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u32	Minister, thank you for your accurate and comprehensive answers. They are reassuring because, as you said, we have not known any cases of bluetongue. We can obviously be happy about that. Your answers are also voluntarist: I have heard your call to continue the vaccination campaign. I hope the breeders will hear it, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u33	Madam President, Minister, in early June, the first signs of the fipronil scandal emerged, but it was only two months later, on 9 August, that we had a first meeting in the federal parliament. It followed the announcement by the AFSCA that analyses carried out on samples from one of the 86 blocked companies indicated that the European security threshold had been exceeded. A total of 86 Belgian companies were blocked and their eggs removed from the market. At the end of August, 14 of these companies were still immobilized. Minister, almost four months after the scandal began, can you provide us with an update on the situation? How did you work with regional ministers? How do you look at the work of the AFSCA? Have any contacts been made with other governments to improve the functioning of the Agency? This crisis has affected many countries, including several European countries. A first meeting of European Agriculture Ministers was held in Tallinn from 3 to 5 September 2017. An informal meeting was scheduled to precede a specific meeting on 26 September 2017. Minister, on the sidelines of this meeting, you held three bilateral meetings with the German Minister for Agriculture, the Dutch Minister for the Economy and the European Commissioner for Food Chain Safety. What do you learn from these European meetings? What was the main objective? Can you provide an update on the specific meeting on 26 September and on the Fipronil case in Europe? Can you tell us what were the main topics for discussion at your bilateral meetings? What came out of it? Are other similar meetings envisaged because there have been major communication problems between European countries? It is a mechanism that should be considered or maintained on a regular basis. I had another question, which was addressed to you but also to Mrs De Block, Minister of Health. I could also have put it to Mr Peeters from the point of view of consumer protection. One might be surprised at what could be described as Belgium's delay in good practice by some of our European neighbours. I am thinking of crisis communication and consumer information. Let us take a few examples. In France, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food published on its website the list of products withdrawn from the market because they contained fipronil at a concentration above the regulatory limit. Very quickly during the crisis, on 6 September, a list of some 40 derivatives was made up in France: Mister Choc chocolates of the Lidl brand, waffles from Holland or Belgium, muffins Leader Price, fringepanes Lotus or brownies brand Repère. This rolling list has been published on a website and has been constantly updated. In England, the same exercise was carried out. The Food Standards Agency has also shown a great deal of transparency vis-à-vis the consumer. The French Ministry of Agriculture states that products withdrawn from the market do not pose a health risk. They declare that they have listed these contaminated products for consumer information purposes. For the same purpose of informing the consumer, why has this concern not arisen in Belgium? Here, the only information available was that eggs bearing code 3BE3114 had been recalled. It is also known that a small misinformation was made by the AFSCA. However, there was no list of derivatives. As a first step, AFSCA explained that it did not report anything until the fipronil concentration exceeded the toxicity threshold. Then, in the face of malaise, AFSCA indicated that it was aligning itself with France by having Lotus biscuits removed from the shelves. There was some confusion during this period. Minister, I have been warned that you will also answer for the Minister of Health. Why is it that the Belgian consumer is not entitled to a list of food products, including derived products, containing fipronil, as in France and England? Why in France and England is the consumer considered to be an adult capable of making a conscious and thoughtful choice with regard to transparent information provided by the public authorities, and why is this not the case in Belgium? In my view, this situation is unacceptable and must change. So when are you going to review this consumer communication policy? For the rest, I await your answers and an assessment of the measures taken, so that such a problem does not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u34	Minister, I am not going to relaunch the whole debate – which is still pending – about the fipronil crisis and its management. Instead, I would like to focus on the problems faced by consumers and the lack of information they have received. I tabled my question several weeks ago, at the beginning of September, but it has not been dealt with so far. That's why I want to question you. Test-Achats revealed that, contrary to the commitments that had been made, fipronil-contaminated products were still present in the shelves on 1 September. Minister, what immediate steps have you taken as a result of this information? Will you finally require that the list of batches of non-compliant products be published? I do not understand why you are not taking the measures that are already being implemented in France and the United Kingdom, as my colleague has pointed out. What argument do you use to deny that the consumer is duly informed? I really don't see why you keep the opacity in this case. What problems would arise if the list were published and the consumer informed? How do you judge the reliability of the system of withdrawal of non-compliant products, in view of the situation that persisted on 1 September? What other structural measures do you envisage to prevent this kind of situation from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u35	Madam President, Minister, for my part, I would like to return to the more federal aspect of this issue and to your contacts with the Walloon Minister of Agriculture, Mr.Collin, in connection with the AFSCA. The Walloon Minister of Agriculture was wondering about the silence of the AFSCA on this issue. He made a series of comments, wondering why AFSCA waited until July 20 before warning Europe and why it waited another four days to warn its minister. In addition, Mr. Collin believes that the AFSCA must fully inform consumers about products with traces of fipronil, even if they are below the toxicity standards. According to him, another problem that should be resolved is the slowness of monitoring when a crisis is triggered. Minister, do you make the same observations as your colleague, Mr Collin? Did he formally state his remarks to you? Do you also feel that the AFSCA needs to be reformed in its internal functioning? I was brief, since my colleagues had already developed the subject at length.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u36	Mr Minister, a first question is not immediately a follow-up question, but is related to the fact that fipronil is also a neonicotinoid called Mundial for the treatment of leeks, onions, shallots and coals. Your predecessor replied to me last year: "As far as fipronil is concerned, it is already clear today that the EU approval of this substance will not be renewed. I'll spare you the rest of the quote. Until now, it was recognised in Belgium until June 2017. Europe's recognition runs until the end of 2017. The approach is quite different. The Brussels Region, for example, already forbade it for that application. I would like to hear your views on this. Secondly, we have all asked a number of questions. Last time, I was very pleased with your commitment to putting absolute transparency first in the dossier. A number of questions were postponed because you hadn't had time to examine everything and didn't know it yet. I'll list them briefly. How many companies are still at a standstill and why? When will the judicial investigation on fraud be concluded? Will you then come to Parliament with a state of affairs? What products have been removed from the shelves in recent months? How is it that we make different choices from our neighbouring countries and are apparently less strict about them? An evaluation report was announced. Will you come to Parliament with that? When? Will the BFSA carry out more checks on residues of medicines, hormones and pesticides? If so, do you have people and resources for that? Where do you get the resources? Thirdly, I had also asked you a number of questions about the savings at the BFSA. It was then replied that there had been an end to activities which were not part of the control programme. What activities are we talking about? Furthermore, you replied that there was no consensus between the Court of Auditors' report and the BFSA on the interpretation of the notion of autocontrol. What recommendations have you taken to heart? How did you apply it? Then I have a question about the RASFF. How many reports have been received in Belgium in recent years about products on the Belgian market containing fipronil? The next one is a very important question. Your predecessor announced in his policy action plan that the various services of Agriculture and Health would cooperate better with the BFSA and within the BFSA. What is the status of these plans? You replied to me that you still had to investigate, because you were only then Minister. In the meantime, do you have a better view of that? You couldn't give me an answer to the question as to why the supervision of the BFSA suddenly moved from Health to Agriculture. Then I have a question about fipronil as a plant protection substance, about the product Mundial. Is that still available on the Belgian market? If yes, for which applications? Is there a deadline for use in Belgium for seed treatment companies? Is sanctions provided for when that would still be used? From when will its use be completely prohibited? Finally, this question goes a little further than the fipronil issue. As a result of the crisis, there has also been a lot to do in the media about how we deal with animals in slaughterhouses. There are also more and more voices to organise our way of production and our food sector more ecologically. What opinion do you have on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u37	Madam Chair, Mr.Minister, my question has gone through a few detours. It is necessary to continue to provide assurances to citizens on the state of the fipronil-contaminated egg crisis and to learn from it. You had not been able to answer all our questions in previous committees. I would therefore like further information today. Either you answer me orally or by mail, with many questions. Mr Minister, the AFSCA, in its presentation of 17 August, has certainly taken, at any time, on the basis of the information available to it, the necessary measures. However, she already knew on June 6 that the contamination with fipronil was due to the feeding or treatment of hens against lice. It also knew that these products and services were provided by external companies which most likely supplied other holdings in Belgium which would therefore also be contaminated. Why did the AFSCA not sample all or part of the Belgian poultry farms as soon as these two tracks were identified on 6 June? Instead, the second farm to have been controlled was XHH, a month later, on July 6, also incidentally since it was part of a red lice research program. Why, then, did horizontal screenings take place between 31 July and 7 August and not as early as 6 June? How long was it necessary to trace the entire vertical chain of contaminated eggs to processed egg-containing products? How is it that product withdrawals were notified throughout September when all laying hens were analysed in mid-August? What conclusions and possible improvements do you draw for the self-control system? France and England have published lists of contaminated egg products. Why did Belgium not do the same? The AFSCA site only mentions the reference numbers of the recalled eggs, but no information on the derived products? Derivatives are not mentioned in Consumer FAQs while everyone talks about them. The Dioxin Commission recommended that the consumer be involved in the risk management process (recommendation 3.1). Is the consumer currently involved in this process? Do you see any leads to associate him more with it? What action did the Minister of Agriculture take after receiving information about fipronil contamination? Why didn't you make it public earlier? How is it that the Dega-16 product could have been used without having been approved? Its use was well known in the sector. Was the AFSCA aware of its use? Has it communicated it to the FPS responsible for the approval and control of biocides? Do the AFSCA and the FPS collaborate regularly in this regard? What is the cost of laboratory analysis of fipronil? What is the use of residual shells for egg breakers? Do they contain fipronil and are they controlled for use? A series of factors are considered in determining the AFSCA control program, including a risk analysis. Does this involve a factor representing the degree of exposure of the population due to the volume of production of the holding in the event of a crisis? Is the list of controlled substances determined by assessing the likelihood of fraudulent use? Fipronil is known to be effective in the treatment of red lice. It is likely to be used fraudulently in the poultry sector, which knows this problem of red lice. Does the type of reasoning fit into the determination of the list of controlled substances? If so, by what means? How is it that fipronil was found in ten henhouses on seven unsuspected farms? If they weren't, it's probably because they're not Chickfriend's clients. How is it possible that fipronil was found on these farms? What is the source? An initial assessment of the Boerenbond estimated that the damage suffered by the Flemish sector alone was more than 10 million. It is currently about hundreds of thousands of euros in Wallonia. What losses will be covered by the compensation? What amount will be awarded for compensation and within what time frame? Under what procedures and how will organisations and breeders be informed? The AFSCA reserve fund, estimated at EUR 160 million, would be used for compensation. What is this amount normally allocated and where does it come from? Why does AFSCA have reserves of hundreds of millions of euros? As far as the impact on consumption and therefore on the long-term economy is concerned, the press has talked a lot about the price of eggs. What about the volumes consumed? Is there an impact on Belgian egg consumption? What about products processed in terms of consumption?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u38	Minister, let me point out to you that if the questions of Mrs Dedry and Mr de Lamotte have been a little long, it is because written questions on this subject have been tabled and they have not received an answer. Today, therefore, you are given the opportunity to answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite normal that there are many questions, because the subject that has had to be dealt with this summer is very sensitive. If we were able to get out of this crisis very quickly, it is thanks to the competence of the Federal Agency for Food Chain Security and the self-control system that has been widely proven. On the other hand, as far as fipronil is concerned, we are one of the only European countries, if not the only one, to have tested the whole egg sector, whether in terms of production, processing or distribution. So there are realities that must be accepted by everyone. I also note that many comparisons are made with other countries. Be aware that the countries that have been cited have not done their job as we have done. We are indeed one of the only European countries to have tested the whole egg industry, including non-suspect farms. A number of countries limit themselves to testing suspicious farms, when they do. This is a reality that I intend to recall. Before returning to what happened after the Health and Economy Committees of 9 and 17 August on this issue, I would like to point out that, at the meeting on 17 August, a list of more than 150 answers to the questions raised by the Committee on 9 August had already been communicated to parliamentarians. In addition, Madam Chair, on September 25, a written response was provided to parliamentarians who had turned their oral question of August 17 into a written question. It is quite natural, given the scale of this dossier, that, in this oral question session, we should once again take up the matter with parliamentarians who wish to obtain additional information, particularly on the basis of new elements. I am thinking, for example, of recent developments at European level. You will excuse me, or not, but I will not go back to what has already been discussed at length in the two committees meeting on 9 and 17 August. You will allow me to point out that questions to which we have already answered have been redrafted today. I naturally refer, as far as they are concerned, to the full record of the proceedings of the above-mentioned committees, as well as to the written replies which may have been provided. The oral questions addressed to me relate mainly to four points: 1. the state of play, follow-up and any lessons learned from the case; 2. the question of communication and information to consumers, in particular as part of the follow-up to the fipronil dossier; 3. collaboration with regional authorities; 4. developments at European level, in particular as regards the follow-up to the European meeting in Tallinn and on 26 September. We will also have to discuss the measures taken by the government to support the sector. I would like to inform you that the bill is now with the King. It will be tabled in Parliament shortly. We will be able to discuss this, and you will be able to analyse the measures even more closely. We have already given you a lot of information on how we want to help the sector, which has taken the fipronil crisis in full swing. Eggs from Belgian laying hens involved in fipronil fraud have been withdrawn from the market. As for egg-processed products, operators who manufacture them were asked to carry out a risk analysis as part of their self-checking and traceability on the basis of which products were withdrawn from the market. Throughout this period, other Member States, via the RASFF system, notified the delivery of contaminated eggs or egg products and the same exercise had to be done by the operators who received the contaminated products. With regard to possible improvements that could be made, the main conclusion regarding the fipronil incident is that animal and public health has remained under control at all times. As for the lessons to be learned from this incident in terms of operational aspects, as is done after each crisis, regardless of the actors or operators, we are assessing - and this evaluation will of course also take place within the AFSCA. It will be transmitted to us. AFSCA also asked the sector to conduct an evaluation. It must naturally pay particular attention and ensure that we are as rigorous as possible in the context of self-monitoring of processing using products such as fipronil, as well as at the level of service companies working on behalf of farmers. After this important fipronil fraud we have known, it is a question of asking operators to learn from the situation. Some said it couldn't happen again. Food security crises occur and reoccur. We know that. Just look at the incidents that have occurred in recent years. That is why we must make every effort to make our system more effective. Mrs Winckel, Mr Nollet, when you say that you wish that this will never happen again, I would point out to you that there will be other crises in terms of food security. The whole question is to arm us as much as possible to, of course, avoid consequences for the health of the consumer. Without any naivety, we know in which world we live, given the repeated crises we have faced, and there will probably be more. In any case, we will learn from the fipronil case to improve the efficiency of the system, which has already proved its worth. In this way, we are raising the sector's awareness - and we will continue to do so - of the dangers of these products, which are presented as miraculous. In this area, however, there is no such thing. Any "miracle product" must of course become a suspect, including in the eyes of the operator. With the AFSCA, we will also study the regulations for this sector, in order to make them even stricter and tighten the net. Mrs Dedry, at the moment there are still 11 holdings, in whole or in part, including three laying farms which do not have egg production. In addition, four laying farms may not yet have animals slaughtered, should they wish. It is also necessary to demonstrate to four breeders that they can start a conform production. Businesses emptied of contaminated poultry must clean and disinfect with a view to restarting. What we probably don't know or don't know enough is that the fipronil that has been sprayed is a very resistant product. It is for this reason that all this takes some time, even though we have reacted extremely quickly. If hens, whether laying hens or breeding hens, are put back in the hens without thorough cleaning, the hens will be automatically contaminated. This is one of the measures we have taken in the Royal Decree to support the sector affected by this health crisis. This work of cleaning, decontamination, disinfection is fundamental. It should not be thought that from the moment an operator has taken the decision to destroy contaminated poultry, the problem is solved. It's much more complicated than that. As soon as the holdings can ensure that the eggs comply with the marketing requirements by means of analyses carried out by the AFSCA, they may be released. After completing the research, the BFSA will examine the results and see if improvement points can be derived from them. I will also look into the need for additional policy initiatives. In response to question No. 20088, it should be mentioned that, in the context in which we find ourselves, the AFSCA undertook work during the crisis and is continuing it today. I would like to stress one point: we do not consider the fipronil crisis to be behind us. Of course, the chances of seeing the fipronil used are less, given the explosion of the scandal. Of course, we wanted the fipronil tests to continue. We have ensured that the entire egg industry is tested. That's not why we stopped testing for fipronil. I wanted to highlight this point. Mr. de Lamotte, you are the champion of all categories of questions, and I would like to highlight this leadership. You've got to be honored. But you sent me thirteen questions yesterday at 10.55 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u40	That is why, Minister, I have proposed that you respond in writing today. You know that the transmission of documents has caused us some problems. These worries are not attributable to you or to me, and we will settle this elsewhere, but not in duel on Place Saint-Lambert, rest assured.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u41	We're all witnesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u42	I'd be glad to have the answers in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u43	Of course. We will take care to do what is necessary. I am also careful to answer the questions, but I am not going to repeat any answers that I have already made, you understand that easily. Here you raise some important points in your questions. I would like to point out that the consumer is involved in two ways in the risk management process. It is so indirectly through the representation of consumer bodies on the Advisory Committee of the AFSCA. These bodies are involved annually in the development of the monitoring programme and kept informed of the results. They are generally consulted on all legislative or other initiatives related to risk assessment or management. Consumers are also directly involved in risk management processes. There is a contact point to which they can contact for any food safety questions or complaints and as recipients of product recalls. It is therefore clear that work on food safety must involve the consumer. It's obvious and I share your point of view. It seems to me that today it is and if it can be more so, why not involve it more? In terms of the cost of fipronil analysis, it is important to specify that the price depends on the laboratory (i.e. external laboratories) but also on the urgency, the matrix (i.e. the types of samples received), the parameters requested (fipronil alone or other products to be detected). Depending on this, it is sometimes necessary to run more than one analysis on a matrix. The cost range for analyses ranges from EUR 99 (for fipronil alone) to EUR 318 (analysis of the presence of fipronil and eight other pesticides). The margin in this area can therefore be large and the cost of analysis depends on it. This is something on which we will return to Parliament when the measures are submitted to you. Egg shells are animal products not intended for human consumption. The processing and use of these animal products is strictly regulated by European legislation. The disposal and processing of these animal by-products is the responsibility of the regional authorities. Shells from eggs intended for consumption are therefore to be considered as Category 3 animal by-products. Before further use of the shells, they must be processed by a Category 3 processor approved by the relevant regional competent authority. After processing, use as feed or fertilizer is possible. On the other hand, in the case of fipronil contamination, as in the case of eggs, shells are considered to be Category 1 by-products. The use in animal feed or as fertilizer is obviously prohibited. As part of the judicial process, the controls were carried out primarily in companies that were directly linked to specific client lists, in order to ensure an overall view. It was quickly decided to extend screening to all laying hens. At the screening of seven companies, non-compliant results were found. For these seven companies, a link could still be established subsequently with the service companies concerned by the use of fipronil in Belgium. Mr de Lamotte, you are also asking me whether the AFSCA reserve fund (160 million euros) will be used for compensation: To what are these amounts normally allocated? Where did they come from? Why does AFSCA have reserves in hundreds of millions of euros? I'll tell you he's happy there are reserves. In this case, it allows us to meet needs. And it is clear that we are not going to use all the reserves. But you also know that the health fund could not have intervened in this context. The reserves of the AFSCA as at 31 December 2016 amounted to 162 million. These reserves consist of EUR 10 million entered in the crisis reserve and EUR 152 million entered in the reserve. I'm rounding. If you want me to give you the exact amounts, I can give them to you. AFSCA's reserves consist of annual profit and loss and are placed in a cash account. However, since we are working with limited appropriations, we are not allowed to use this amount without the authorization of the Council of Ministers. You know that we have made arrangements, within the framework of the fipronil dossier, to have a working margin of around EUR 30 million. We will return to this issue in the context of the discussions to be held on this subject. I come to the question of fipronil as a plant protection product. In the past, six plant protection products were authorised in Belgium. The last to have been authorized is the BASF Mundial. This product was only authorized for the treatment of seeds of onions, shallots and leeks. Marketing by the holder of the authorisation was only authorised until 1 December 2015. The placing on the market and storage by third parties was authorised until 1 June 2016, and use until 1 June 2017. On August 14, 2013, the approval of fipronil had already been significantly reduced due to the risk of this substance to bees. You will recall the debate that we had on the question of what was the situation after the conclusions that had been delivered much earlier. On that occasion, the discussion focused on bees and nothing else. Only treatments of seed used in greenhouses or seed of onions, shallots and leeks used in fields and harvested before flowering have been maintained in the European Union. Offences may be subject to criminal prosecution or administrative fines. In practice, AFSCA imposes administrative fines ranging from 600 to 10,000 euros, which is not nothing. Of course, the offender's level of responsibility and the impact of fraud on food safety are taken into account. Madam President, we come to the issue of providing information to consumers as part of the follow-up to the fipronil dossier. These questions were raised by Ms Winckel and Mr Nollet, among others. On the basis of a traceability exercise, and in collaboration with the sectors concerned, the AFSCA draws up a list of Belgian food companies that have been supplied with contaminated eggs. These companies have had to demonstrate that the products made of these eggs, and that they have placed them on the market, meet the legal requirements. If the MRL is exceeded, the products shall be withdrawn from the market. The AFSCA keeps this data in order to have a clear overview of the companies and products concerned. Based on this data, the AFSCA will verify that these products have indeed been removed from the market by conducting controls with manufacturers and retailers. At present, more than 2,500 controls have been carried out. Approximately 241 from processors, 2,100 from egg and egg removals in the distribution, 530 from processed products, or on-going. In addition, 240 analyses were also carried out on various processed egg products. In this context, only one non-compliance, an exceedance of the MRL, has so far been found. A counter-analysis is under way. These controls can reassure the situation. It should also be pointed out that if products were withdrawn from the market, no product had to be recalled to the consumer. A recall of a product to the consumer is only organised, I repeat, if it is likely to represent an effective danger to public health. The AFSCA then communicates clearly on this subject on its website and via the media. You are asking questions about the choice that has been made not to publish the list of products withdrawn from the market. To the extent that these products do not pose any danger to the health of consumers, I am not yet going to go back to a decision that fully complies with the legal obligations and regulations relating to the correct information of consumers. You must still know that at the European meeting in Brussels on 26 September, a challenge to this system, which distinguishes withdrawal from recall, was not pushed by anyone. No one! You have quoted a number of countries, but no one has questioned at European level the continued distinction between recall and withdrawal and the fact that we do not recall products that do not constitute a danger to the consumer. You must be reassured that the consumer is directly informed of the presence of problematic products when they pose a health hazard. This is essential information for the consumer, but all information must be proportionate and verified. I regret that during the crisis some people have been confused between withdrawal, reminder and warning. Some of them had fun blowing on the embers. I think that in such times, we should not blow on embers! There was no will to hide anything. There was only one desire to respect a system that proved its worth. Everything that has managed a crisis knows that we do not change procedures in times of crisis! This is really the last thing to do! The system in place for the management of product withdrawals and recalls is working properly, it has shown its reliability. Of course, it also depends on the diligence of the operators who are primarily responsible for this and whose monitoring of the measures is monitored by the AFSCA. We monitor operators to ensure that they withdraw products. If the Agency finds any deficiencies in this regard, it shall immediately take the measures indicated. We must also recall the thoroughness with which the AFSCA ensures the health security of our citizens. From the outset, it has set up a comprehensive monitoring system on all Belgian laying hens, including unsuspected holdings. We are among the only ones, at European level, who have done so! We have had an exchange with Mr de Lamotte on this point, which is something that everyone can point out as a positive reality compared to others! The idea is not to cast reproach on others, the idea is to say that we did it. We demanded this positive dynamic of the PSAB and the CBSA has made it imperative to participate fully in it. This dynamic is important for consumer confidence and even more so for the health issue. It is thanks to this that we can guarantee today – probably, unlike others – the conformity of Belgian eggs, egg products and poultry meat, since it has also been tested and checked. We did not strictly limit ourselves to eggs. The time that has been spent monitoring the sector may seem long, but I don't think so. These are exceptional means that have been devoted to this task; it is important to recognize it. Additional resources have been allocated to AFSCA to meet these requirements. As I said, we will have to learn from this crisis. At some point, it would probably have been easier to doubt – like some – the quality of the work of the AFSCA. I barely take over these responsibilities, but if I said the AFSCA had done its job, it was out of conviction. I have studied closely the management of this crisis. Of course, as after every crisis, the lessons will have to be learned, and I, like AFSCA officials, am confident that what can be improved as a result of the evaluations will be. We will look at this aspect, while knowing that the lessons must also be drawn at European level. There is a need to strengthen the European approach, to harmonise risk assessment and to ensure uniform and consistent use of European communication systems. There are several systems but they are probably a little too impermeable between them. We will therefore have to give effect to certain measures on which we have been able to agree at European level, at the initiative of Belgium. I'll come back. Some questions, mainly from Ms Winckel and Mr Senesael, concerned collaboration with regional authorities. I work with my regional counterparts. First of all, I refer to the task force which brought together representatives of the relevant ministerial departments, federated entities and different sectors in order to examine the matter. We started thinking about how we could work, in compliance with European regulations, to support a sector that took the fipronil crisis as an earthquake of magnitude 6. It's obvious. Furthermore, it should be added that, as you know, the regional authorities are in contact with AFSCA in the context of the problem of the elimination of contaminated foodstuffs, which should be considered as Category 1 products and the elimination of contaminated feces. You know that the Region is currently drawing up a dossier on the subject. Indeed, it is a regional matter and it is important to share the same dynamic, federated and federal entities. This is also the case in the context of our approach to the Commission on this subject. It is important to do it together. However, questions or criticisms were relevant. I'm not interested in that, Mr. Senesael. I was forced to be interested in all these polemics when I was group leader of the MR. Now we've had a crisis to deal with. We must manage the implementation of support measures, continue to restore confidence and work, with the aim of protecting consumer health. I don't deal with polemics.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u44	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u45	Coming from Mr Nollet, I am pleased!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u47	Madam President, the last question is that of the European dossier. The European Union must learn from fipronil fraud. Belgium, together with other Member States, has submitted a series of proposals to this effect. It is clear, Mrs Winckel, that it was essential - you referred to it - beyond a number of realities that had to be put on the table at a given point in time, that the path of collaboration was set in motion. That is why I have had very regular bilateral contacts and meetings with the German colleague, Minister Schmidt, the French colleague, Stéphane Travert and also the Dutch Minister of the Economy very quickly and throughout the work carried out until 26 September. Austria is all the more interested in helping Belgium's proposals, since it will soon have to assume important responsibilities at European level. Beyond the meetings of 3 and 5 September in Estonia at which we discussed the CAP post 2020, we, together with Commissioners Hogan and Andriukaitis, made a number of proposals calling on the European Commission and Commissioner Andriukaitis to organise this meeting on 26 September. At this level, I can say very quietly that after the crisis that we have been through, the meeting on 26 September was very important. Together with a number of colleagues, I have asked that, from now on and in the face of this kind of situation, the Commission should be able to play a leading role earlier. As you know, in appointing the delegation of the various liaison officers, we have played a role that could have been endorsed by Europe. In doing so, there is today on the table a proposal that I consider extremely important, which still needs to be debated because some States have asked for time for reflection. This proposal aims at setting up a European contact point by the Commission to which all liaison officers could contact to exchange information, submit problems and organise meetings. We said we had to learn lessons. This point seems essential to me. It will be a question of whether we can agree - meetings are held with the committees of experts - to set up this point of contact, beyond the question of communication. When I talk about communication, I mean alert systems. The aim is to bring them closer together and to ensure that information can flow faster. I know I've been a long time, Madam President. If I were to highlight some elements, Mrs Winckel, it would be those relating to the point of contact, to the European alert systems that need to be improved, to the harmonisation of national alert systems. When I talk about harmonisation, I mean that the transmission of information must be homogenised. Several countries, but not ours, don't give the alarm. This raises questions as to how the message is directed to alert systems. Furthermore, to tell you frankly, we will have to make progress at European level in terms of traceability of processed products. At this stage, we have not found agreement in this area. But that is essential. I was able to plead, on behalf of Belgium, during this meeting, that beyond a global monitoring - somewhat similar to the one developed in Belgium and which allowed testing of all the sectors - we could look at the traceability of processed products. We're not there yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u48	Minister, thank you. We have indeed exploded the time limit for speaking time! However, the last word belongs to parliamentarians. We can't escape that rule. But I will ask the members to be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u49	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers, perhaps not to all the questions, but to many of them. I will start with your last answer on exchanges with other European countries and what was in place. I think it's really a very good thing, and the discussions have been quite quick. You were able to detect quickly enough what might have been dysfunctional and you have already put improvement leads on the table. I can only support you in this process. As you said, we must insist on improving the traceability of processed products. We are counting on you to make your voice heard in the face of your European counterparts. That's for Europe. It was possible to detect what was wrong very quickly trying to find solutions. I now come back to the level of Belgium. I heard you. You're having a double speech. On the one hand, you say that we quickly emerged from the crisis and that the AFSCA is competent. The self-satisfaction that emerges from your speech worries me a little. In my view, it is precisely uncertainty and questioning that allow lessons to be drawn from what has not happened properly. It is not bad, in itself, to be able to say: "This has not been. How can we improve things?" You also said that you knew in which world we live and that we should not be naive, that a scandal could always happen. I can hear him. Let us not be naive and put in place procedures to prevent this kind of scandal from happening again. It's really important. In order to have strengthened procedures, the budgetary element must be borne in mind. You talked about the cost of testing. However, we are talking about the decrease in the budgets of the FCASA. There is a need for a policy that is consistent with the means that can be put in place. I've heard you on some things but not on laboratory issues. We spoke a lot in August about the absence of an official laboratory in Belgium. So I would have wanted to know where we were in this area. What made me cold in the back when I heard AFSCA was the absence of tests on prohibited products. Could it not be possible in future procedures to check the presence of prohibited products in Belgium? By analogy, it is known that for cyclists, certain doping products are prohibited. Tests are carried out to detect the presence of these products in the organisms. I think we should do the same and change the procedures. As far as the list of contaminated products is concerned, I can hear you. But know that we didn't amalgamate. We understand the difference with other European countries. In Belgium, once the standard has been exceeded, the contaminated products are removed. But my question was about the consumer. It is important to know what you eat and to be able to make a choice with knowledge. Do we, as consumers, want to eat a product containing even tiny doses of insecticide? At some point, this will be the choice of the consumer. This is why it is important to establish lists of contaminated products, even if they are not dangerous to health, at this time. We don't know what's next. I don't want to cast doubt, but I'm very careful about how I consume, and I'm sure I'm not the only one. It is important to consider the consumer as an actor and to give him the opportunity to choose his mode of consumption. It is important to me, and it is a choice that can be made. I understand that this choice should not be made in crisis situations. But now that we are somewhat out of the crisis, we can ask ourselves these questions. This would put pressure on companies. They will know that if products are contaminated, a list is drawn up directly. This makes it possible to raise awareness and improve self-control between manufacturers and businesses at European level. I shall end by referring to the method of work. We didn't really hear you about that. I find the slow transmission of information to be a problem. Looking at the timeline, between the first cases revealed at the beginning of June and the Minister's information at the end of July, it is clear that there were two months. It's really long. I am not even talking about the minister's reaction, but more timely information would have been desirable. At one time, weekly meetings were held that brought together the AFSCA, departmental offices and the Health Administration. These issues could be addressed more quickly. That is why we asked to hear Mr Borsus. It happened before you arrived. You had your vision as a minister from the moment you took over the case. The aim was not to do politics, but to know what he had put in place before. We must work on these elements to put in place procedures so that this does not happen again and that there are fewer scandals. It would be sound, without calling into question the work of the AFSCA, if an audit of the functioning of this agency were to be carried out at some point by an outside company. It is healthy to be able to work in this way and to wonder what can still be improved in the procedures and operation of the AFSCA. I have heard that you have requested an assessment of the management of this crisis at the AFSCA level and that producers will also be able to give their opinion on the management of this crisis. That's interesting. When will these evaluation elements be known to your services? There, I won't be any longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u50	Colleagues, all interventions are too long. I would point out that we will soon be discussing the policy notes, the guidance note, etc. I assume that these discussions will also focus on the Minister's intentions with respect to the PSAB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u51	Minister, I regret that you were so brief and quick in your answer. I couldn't keep up. However, I have noted eight points on which I shall return very briefly. You say that it is because there will still be crises that we must be able to learn from it. I totally agree. You ask operators to learn the lessons. But I have the impression that, as far as you are concerned, namely the level of political decision-making and administrative management by the AFSCA, you are not learning the lessons. Somewhere, you're in denial! The word is hard, but it is up to what I feel and what I have been able to analyze at the turn of the crisis management. How dare you say that the Belgian system reacted properly and quickly? It took a year for us to discover that this miracle product was used and widespread on our poultry farms. Even today, you say that this system has worked fast! How will we do if there are other crises? You say there will probably be other crises and I agree with you. How will it be done if we know that our control system is not able to detect the presence of banned and dangerous products for one year? I ask you to come out of this denial and accept the fact that the system currently in place has not been able to detect the presence of banned products sufficiently early. We can have an assessment of how he reacts at the time he was informed. I have my point of view on the subject and have expressed it in previous committees. I won't come back today. There may be divergent views on this, but it cannot be said that there is a problem when a prohibited product is generalizing on the market and escapes from the area's gendarme for a year! This is my main criticism of the current system. I would sincerely like you to work on it, beyond the way the crisis has already been managed. Suppose another product is more dangerous to health – and I can agree with you that this aspect was under control – it is nevertheless possible that health control does not take place. If, in this case, it takes you a year to realize it and to react, it would be unacceptable. This is why the self-checking system is not enough – just like the Agency's sensors. You need to improve the procedure. As far as derivatives are concerned, I would like to share your certainty. I will take an illustration, of which little has been said so far: egg berlingots, used in breweries to prepare omelettes and avoid breaking eggs individually. They are kept for a very long time, just like milk because it is, we are told, produced safely. Are you sure that the omelettes that were eaten in these establishments were free of fipronil at the time when the concentration was highest? No one can say that, starting with you, since the eggs were not removed until the end of July. But these berlingots have been produced long before! And they keep moving. What controls did the AFSCA operate on the berlingots? We've never heard of it! Above all, there was no transparency or publication! It is in this respect that I agree with what others of my colleagues have already said: your answer lacks convincing arguments explaining why, in Belgium, a consumer should not be informed. Perhaps it is more "beast" than a consumer in France or Britain? I don't believe it! We are talking about the distribution of the list of products withdrawn from the market. I distinguish the withdrawal from the reminder and we have always made this difference. Don't pretend you don't understand the difference. This difference also exists in France, but France publishes the list and, above all, considers its consumers to be intelligent. The Belgian citizens are as well, but they would deserve the Minister to recognize them as such, that is to say, capable of managing this kind of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u52	Madam Chair, I would like to thank the minister and, as he has announced, I would like to receive more details in a written response. I will not go back to the reactions of each other, but I see that the construction site is not finished. Clearly, there is still work to be done at Belgian and European level. Constraints will create imagination to find solutions that will satisfy each other. Minister, I would like to comment on your response to the issue of risk management. You mentioned the fact that it was normal for consumers to be involved in this risk management approach. I insist on this and on the progress that needs to be made in this area. You also said you were going to ask for an assessment of the crisis. I would remind you that, as early as the first committee in August, I asked you because it seemed essential to do an audit of the AFSCA, with parliamentary scrutiny. There are other situations in which parliamentary scrutiny must take place. When a controller is not controlled, it does not work. I'm going back to this solicitation. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. Madam President, I'm gonna stop here. We will, of course, have the opportunity to come back to the subject in the discussions on the policy notes, and in other circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u53	Minister, since you don't deal with polemics, I don't have much to offer as an element of reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u54	Madam President, I have said this, and we must not make the opposite impression: there will be an evaluation. We'll learn from this crisis. Everything is perfect. We must learn from this, even though I believe that the work has been properly done. I'll never say otherwise. Indeed, it was sometimes a bit shocking, Mr. Nollet, to note that some were willing to burn the AFSCA in public place. I remember August. In my view, some nuances could have been made, if there had not been a number of excesses. But as I indicated, and as I have committed to it, there will be an evaluation, even if the AFSCA has done its job very well. As far as the Belgian system is concerned, we can be satisfied with it. Mr Nollet without self-control, who tells you that fipronil would have been discovered?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u56	That's provocation!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u57	No. The detection of fipronil was possible thanks to the Belgian self-control system. This is an argument for our system. On the other hand, allow me to add – I did not mention this point when I spoke to Mrs Winckel about the European question – that the Europeans meeting in Brussels on 26 September jointly called for a strengthening of self-control systems at European level. This kind of system naturally helps food security agencies. Everyone is aware that the Belgian self-control system has detected fipronil. Mr Nollet, as far as products are concerned, you are right to talk about tracking. All processed products, including products that can be consumed for a very long time, have been and continue to be monitored. We are, in fact, ensuring that any product, even if it does not pose a danger to public health, is systematically removed from distribution. Having said that, I can hear you, Mrs. Winckel. It is very rare for the operator not to follow the withdrawal order given to him. For my part, I believe that it would be useful to consider, beyond the administrative sanction, a public sanction for those who do not comply with this order. I am therefore open to such an approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u58	As you have provoked the members of the commission, I give them 20 seconds – but no more!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u59	Minister, I have never said – and I never will – that the self-control system is useless. I'm just saying it's not enough. Indeed, it was simply because one of these self-control devices requested the analysis of a German laboratory that this case was discovered. Otherwise, we would probably not talk about fipronil right now, but we would still eat it in our eggs. I ask you to recognize him, instead of taking refuge in denial. You need to strengthen not only the self-control system, but also the AFSCA's ability to detect the massive use of a prohibited product in our territory faster. Here it took a year – and it is unacceptable. And it is even more intolerable that you, the minister responsible, do not admit it! This refusal could lead to much more serious health crises.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u60	Minister, I come back to the question of evaluation and the AFSCA. These companies used products that were not necessary and that were not in the right place. The problem is, we didn't spot them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic735x.u61	Thank you all. We will come back to this topic during the more general discussions, regarding the policies AFSCA 2018-2019, if this is right for you.
