ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u1	We have a lot of questions on the agenda. We will therefore try to respect the speaking times. Our meeting will close at 5:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u2	Madam Minister, the electronic regulation is very useful and necessary, but it was a difficult start. The programmes were clearly not yet about to be implemented at 100 %. In the meantime, we hear from the field that children's diseases would have been removed for a large part from the programmes and that electronic prescription would be facilitated. I have a specific question on this, and in particular on the validity of the electronic regulation. If I understand correctly, the validity for paper regulations is limited to three months. Will this remain the same for electronic regulations? After all, we hear from the field that it would be an additional benefit and an additional incentive for both patient and caregiver to work with the electronic prescription if its validity were to be extended. What is your position on this? Do you recognize that? Do you have any plans to meet that? Why is that deadline now set at three months? What ratio lies behind that? In practice, it raises problems with regulations which need to be collected later. In principle, they should then be registered at a later date, but I understand that not every software program allows that. I asked you once how many certificates for reimbursement are generally submitted too late or never. You replied that you had no record of it. Will this be the case with the electronic regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u3	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u4	The questions are attached. Minister, you are responding to those you have prepared. Mrs Van Camp will read your answers to see what is missing in relation to the month of June.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you many times about electronic prescriptions. You announced in October the launch of a free software, called PARIS, to accompany the process of computerization of prescription, especially for older doctors. The request to consider older physicians is made in such a way that they can use the usual standard prescription to prevent them from precipitating the end of their activity. This possibility could be retained until the concordance with the computer medical file scheduled for January 1, 2021. I accept that we must go towards electronic prescribing, but taking into account the many realities and without forcing some to stop their activity, especially since some regions are experiencing shortages of generalists. Minister, is there agreement that the implementation of the software does not exclude the extension of the paper prescription for older physicians ideally until January 1, 2021, the date the computer file was started?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u6	Madam President, as you have suggested, I will not repeat the questions that have already been asked by previous speakers. However, minister, could you please tell me if there are any training plans, as Ms. Fonck has just mentioned, for older doctors so that they can move on to electronic prescribing more quickly? If so, how will they be organized?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u7	Madam President, Minister, the survey conducted by Newpharma and MediQuality among 400 physicians, the results of which were published in the press at the end of August, revealed that only 15% of them believe that digital health will be beneficial and likely to improve their relationships with their patients. They don't trust much of the innovations already put in place like the eHealth platform. They refer to difficulties of use and express their concerns about the confidentiality of the data. For example, 70% of physicians are concerned about the risk of error and only 33% of physicians surveyed have adopted electronic prescriptions. Based on the criticisms noted, it is not possible to indicate all the usual advice that accompanies the taking of medicines. They also express their concern in the event of a technical problem, which I mentioned last May in a question on the practical aspects of electronic prescribing. With regard to e-mail, they fear less listening and consideration of the human factor. They believe that connected objects are of no use without a doctor, except to reassure them wrongly. They're worried about data security. They also deplore that the diversity of software and its incompatibility undermine data sharing, except in Wallonia, it seems. Minister, the results of this investigation lead me to ask you the following questions. How many doctors have adopted electronic prescriptions in each Region to date? What percentage of the medical profession do they represent? What is the status of the announced solution for people who do not have identity cards? Do you maintain a generalization of its entry into force on January 1, 2018? Have you, for your part, initiated or continued a dialogue with doctors to take into account the difficulties encountered in the field for both electronic prescribing and other e-health developments? What about information to patients, doctors, pharmacists, mutuals and all stakeholders? In your answer to my previous question, you mentioned a leaflet that would be distributed through pharmacies. Is it still up to date? What about the doctors? My general practitioner, in any case, has moved to electronic prescription, but she is concerned because she still does not know what to do for patients without ID cards, whether they are foreign or in difficult situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u8	Mrs Van Camp, as far as your question is concerned, I think I fully replied on 21 June. So that's resolved quickly. Mrs Fonck and Mr Caprasse, Mr Senesael, I have indeed taken note of the essential findings of this investigation without denying the concerns of the providers and the practical problems involved in the deployment of e-health tools. The signals that come to me are more encouraging. Thus, for example, as part of the 2016 telematics premium for general practitioners, the results were positive, as half of them reached the thresholds set for at least three of the six e-parameters. For the prescription of specific drugs, the results showed that 5,223 general practitioners had achieved at least 25% of their prescriptions electronically in the second quarter of 2016. In addition, as of August 31, 2017, 9,116 physicians had used electronic prescriptions. The electronic prescription of drugs in outpatients is also gaining ground in hospitals, as fourteen of them are now able to prescribe drugs to outpatients. The PARIS Internet app will be accessible via the eHealth platform with a pc or mobile phone and eventually on a smartphone or tablet. The prescriber will authenticate with his electronic ID card and PIN code. The main beneficiaries of this application are general practitioners, specialist doctors, dentists and midwives who are in a situation where they do not have access to their patient file management software or to the hospital information system such as, for example, during home visits, in certain nursing homes, during hospital visits, or who do not yet have the computerized medical file, i.e. the patient file management software. This applies to certain categories of medical specialists, prescribers who no longer have practice or do not practise in the classical sense of the term, because they work in insurers, in administration or in education. This may also include clinical biologists, pathologists, and others. There is also another important group, made up of older doctors, and older prescribers at the end of active practice. A test phase in real-life situations, prior to effective implementation, is planned so that potential users can check whether the solution developed is effective and to optimize its functioning. PARIS will be available by 1 December 2017. A communication on this subject, including practical information, including the organisation of the helpdesk, is planned after the test phase. Starting in 2018, the electronic prescription of medicines will become more widespread. The PARIS application will provide each prescriber with the possibility of making electronic prescriptions outside the computerized medical record, pending its general use. With regard to the training we have already given, I have concluded, since 2015, agreements with the federated entities for a total of two million euros to take the initiative of actions to promote e-health among providers. These actions may take different forms. In Wallonia, the convention was concluded with the Federation of Associations of Generalists, to organize formations of different levels. At the end of December 2016, there had already been 4,778 participations of general practitioners in these trainings. It must be said that the same general practitioner can enrol in training at different levels. I believe that important work has been done within INAMI. It is, of course, also true that the paper rules will become rare, but will still be possible if it is not possible electronically, for example if the Internet is flat or if it is not possible to prescribe electronically. I think PARIS is a good addition for older people and people who occasionally prescribe. It's good that this has worn off.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u9	Thank you, Madam Minister. Do I have to understand that there will be a generalization of the electronic prescription? All right. But even apart from technical problems, urgency, unavailability, software, computer equipment, for older doctors, we agree that it will remain possible to practice by paper prescription. You're nodding your head. I say that for the report, this will be included in the preparatory work. I think it was fundamental. You know I've been bothering you about this. It was a reasonable demand from the ground. There will be a major advantage, above all, that in order to change things and above all to make them a success, one must take into account and accept adaptations that allow one and the other to return to them. In this context, I think that it can be made a success, but it is still and still absolutely necessary to respect this possibility either during technical problems or for the older doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u10	Madam President, I thank the Minister for the quality of her response and for the follow-up she is going to take on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u11	Minister, you have given a satisfactory overall response. I guess for patients who don't have ID cards with a chip, we're going to paper solutions. We need to find a solution for these people! This problem is being passed on by general practitioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u12	There is a solution for those who have an identity card or a residence card. Discussions are under way for undocumented people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u13	For people who have an ID card without a chip, there's always a problem! It's a trick question but you have to find a solution or continue with the paper version!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u14	(...) In 2017, we must adapt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u15	Doctors aren't responsible for ID cards! There may be a problem with the municipal administrations!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u16	You can still report your taxes in paper form!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u17	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u18	Minister, during our last question-and-answer session before the holidays, you indicated that there would be tolerance for older physicians beyond January 2018. It is also true that the technology of identity documents has not yet reached everyone. Some jurisdictions have still not updated all ID cards. We'll have to investigate more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u19	Madam President, Minister, an audit on the functioning, organisation and cost structure of the WGCs was announced in 2016. As a protective measure, a moratorium on the recognition of new district health centres was introduced until after the audit was carried out. My questions to you are the following, Madam Secretary. Where are we on the audit? Will the results be delivered to Parliament? Is the moratorium still in force? I have been informed that a new WGC will start in Opglabbeek on 2 October 2017. This was announced in August. How is this possible if the moratorium is still in force? The WGC in Opglabbeek also presents itself as an antenna of the WGC in Genk. I think we are using a back door here to circumvent the moratorium. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u20	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the audit work will be completed by the end of this year. Work started too late due to a problem in the administration. Moreover, cooperation was not immediately optimal. You know that some of them boycotted questions from the audit because they do not want to share certain things. However, the audit will be carried out because sufficient centres have replied. In the meantime, all parts of the government decision of October 2016, taken in the context of the preparation of the medical care insurance budget for 2017, remain fully valid, as do the moratorium. The services of the RIZIV currently do not have an application for a flat-rate payment agreement, which would be based on the new medical home you have identified. They have not applied for a flat-rate allowance, which is covered by the moratorium. However, they can organize themselves, in private, in a medical home. This is still possible because they will then work according to ordinary performance financing. In my region, too, such medical homes have been opened by a number of general practitioners and other care providers. They do not work through a flat-rate payment, but through a third-party payment scheme like other general practitioners. Otherwise, they simply work with performance financing. So that's still possible. They are not covered by the moratorium, but they have not applied for a flat-rate payment either. What the audit is really about is to know what happens to the flat-rate payment, to what extent the patient gets better or at least as good concern and to what extent the flat-rate payment is being used transparently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u21	Madam Secretary, I think that is a very good thing. As far as this specific dossier is concerned, it is clear and I will pass it on in that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u22	Madam Minister, this question also dates back a while ago. It deals with the change in the general practitioner's training, where a switch is made from 7 + 2 of 6 + 3. If I am right, there is still a problem of finding an extra EUR 18 million to further pay the wages of the HAIOS. That wage is paid half by the RIZIV and half by the general practitioners where the HAIOS are employed. As far as I know, this EUR 18 million has still not been found, or at least no KB or official agreement has been reached. You yourself suggested as a solution that hospital training in basic training should be included in vocational training as a general practitioner. That way, half a year would be saved. The whole sector agrees that this is not a good idea because this hospital placement serves to teach certain basic skills and has nothing to do with the necessary skills in general practitioner training. Moreover, this solution would not be in line with European rules. The Hoge Gezondheidsaad also gave negative advice on this matter a few times. I understand that you are working on a solution in consultation with the sector. At least that's what you said. I have the following questions for you. Do you agree with me that this has an adverse effect on the conduct of the general practitioner's profession? If this uncertainty persists, this choice of study becomes less interesting. However, given the ageing of the population and the imminent retirement wave of general practitioners, this profession must be kept attractive. Are you still in favour of making that hospital placement count? Why is that, or why not? Will you be able to release the EUR 18 million a year? Or will this be left to another government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u23	Mrs Dedry, as far as the double cohort is concerned, the decision cannot be left to the next government. That is what the previous government has done. She hasn't taken any action to do that. As you can see, it's not easy to cure after that. It is a consequence of the previous decision of the educational authorities to shorten the training to a doctor by one year, from seven to six years. It's about the High Council of doctors-specialists and general practitioners, not the High Health Council. That's another advice. You know that there are many councils, but the High Council of doctors-specialists and general practitioners has been consulted on several occasions about this issue. As far as your first question is concerned, I can only conclude that there is a great deal of interest in the studies of doctors, as demonstrated by the number of enrolments for the entrance examination organized for the first time in the two Communities. The planning committee has recommended that some 40% of the doctors who have received a doctorate should be as a general practitioner. In the past many doctors have been formed, but too few general practitioners. Of course, that is also due to the free choice, but it was a mistake. I therefore support the objective of creating 40 % of general practitioners within the cohort. In the meantime, I am also taking initiatives to further facilitate the training of general practitioners. Within the RIZIV the budgets within the administrative costs for the general practitioner training are adapted to the double cohort. In addition, it is necessary to amend the Royal Decree implementing Article 55 of the Law on medical care and benefits. The decision provides for a budget for 24 months of training. In line with the extension of the professional internship for general practitioners, it will have to be adjusted for up to 36 months. That initiative is ongoing. Initiatives to make the establishment of general practitioners more attractive and to promote general practice now fall within the competence of the Communities. I see that there are initiatives there, both in Wallonia, with Impulseo, and in Flanders. As far as your second question is concerned, I note that the extension of the professional training course for general practitioners coincides with the introduction of the extension of the professional training course for general practitioners, as well as the introduction of a hospital training course. The hospital placement for general practitioners coincides with the double influx of doctors-specialists in training in hospitals. Finally, in recent years there has been a significant overrun of the quotas established in the French Community, which greatly increased the pressure on internship capacity in hospitals, especially in the French Community. In addition, there is concern about the quality of the internships and whether there is sufficient professional exhibition, which is very important for all doctors who are professionally formed. In other words, three determining factors come together here. In its opinion of 23 February 2017, the Supreme Council of Doctors Specialists and General Doctors answered the question concerning the professional training of general practitioners in a nuanced manner. The question arises as to whether, in view of the specific context, our country should also invoke the derogation provided for in Article 28.2 of the European Directive No. 36 of 2005, the directive on professional qualifications, which you undoubtedly know. The Supreme Court recommended that the three-year professional training continue as planned. He also confirms the usefulness of 6 months of hospital training during this training course. However, the Supreme Court also wants to avoid that a candidate's training path would be interrupted due to a shortage of hospital places due to the double cohort and competition with the candidate specialists who should also seek placements. In order not to insecure or delay the recognition of a candidate household doctor, the Supreme Court advocates the possibility of a strict derogation. The Supreme Court asked to examine whether Article 28.2 of the European Directive could continue to be invoked in this context. Following the opinion of the Supreme Court, a Ministerial Decision amending the Ministerial Decision of 1 March 2010 on the recognition of general practitioners will be published shortly. Candidate hospital doctors who hold a university certificate for the years 2018-2024 will be able to valorise 6 months of internship during the sixth year of the training cycle leading to the doctor's degree in the context of their specific training in general medicine. This valorisation is only possible in so far as the internship covers the aspects of the clinical work relevant to the general practitioners and in so far as the work was carried out in an approved hospital which has the necessary equipment and services suitable for general medical practice. As far as funding is concerned, before the summer of the services of the FPS Public Health, I received a substantiated prognosis of the influx of doctors into the professional internships. These forecasts are used to provide a future budget for the professional training of doctors. I am committed to providing these budgets effectively within the government and at the RIZIV. There are many aspects that differ for specialists and general practitioners. We have already taken a number of legal initiatives. This is a great work that has not yet been done and for which we are now seeking solutions. I have said many times that the solution will not come from one magic source. It is not the case that only EUR 100 million should be put on the table, with which everything is settled. No, we really need to take measures and watch over the quality of those trained doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u24	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. I understand that a lot of steps have been taken. I also understood that for the first few years, the funds, which were EUR 18 million or approximately the amount required, were not a problem, as they were available within the RIZIV budget. The key to achieving this by 2020 was the certainty. However, you are talking about 2018 to 2024, so I understand that you are taking this with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u25	Minister, I come back to you regarding the Order of Physicians, which calls for the obligation of all patients to choose a general practitioner who carries out and maintains for them a comprehensive medical record (GMD). According to members of the College, such an obligation would allow physicians to know the patient record well and thus provide them with quality care. At the same time, while the current system envisages the DMG and its summary only in the hands of a general practitioner, the College of Physicians considers it wise that it should also be done by specialist physicians who closely monitor patients. Minister, what is your view on this request from the College of Physicians? Would you be inclined to accept it? If not, can you give us the reasons? Beyond this demand, it would appear that the DMG is better and much more established in Flanders than in Wallonia. Do you confirm this information? Can you provide us with encrypted data? How do you explain these differences? Are you considering taking steps to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u26	Mr Senesael, I have indeed seen the request of the Order of Physicians concerning the obligation for all patients to choose a general practitioner responsible for establishing and maintaining for them a comprehensive medical record. Contrary to your assertion, the College does not consider that the general medical record should also be done by specialist physicians. Indeed, the College believes that the most important information in the overall medical record should also be available online for other physicians. To this end, I would like to inform you that, within the framework of the e-Health Plan, the SIS Action Plan – which involves sharing information in order to collaborate – provides for the sharing of all relevant data that could facilitate patient care. In addition, we rely on 2015 data to answer the question of the number of overall medical records by Region and age group, as we find large disparities. I will naturally pass on the picture to you. In Flanders, the rate was 67% in 2015. For those under the age of 25, it reached 52%, while for those over the age of 74 it stood at 95%. It therefore appears that young people are more hesitant than older people in choosing a doctor and in developing a comprehensive medical record. As for Wallonia, the rate is obviously lower: 47.5% (-22% compared to Flanders). The situation is somewhat similar to that of Flanders. The rate for young people under 25 years of age is 41 per cent, while it is 74 per cent for those over 74 years of age. In the Brussels region, the percentage is even lower, reaching 40%. Anyway, I'll give you the picture. But the same can be said in Brussels, Wallonia and Flanders: the number of overall medical records is lower for young people, while the proportion of older people who have activated the overall medical record is much higher. The per capita coverage rate for the whole territory is 58% (67% in Flanders compared with 47% in Wallonia and 40% in Brussels). However, these figures must be interpreted with nuance. Coverage is very different depending on age. The older the patient, the more the patient benefits from the overall medical record. It should be noted that this system was originally intended for elderly patients before being extended to all patients. This does not fully explain the delay in Wallonia and Brussels. I think other factors play, such as the role of the general practitioner in the provision of care or socio-cultural factors influencing the population's adherence to the system. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not because the overall medical record is not billed that the doctor does not have a record for his patient and that the patient is not being followed properly. In addition, at present, the increase in coverage is greater. There is therefore greater growth in Wallonia and Brussels than in Flanders. I think the situation will eventually be levelled. Let's not forget that these figures date back to 2015! Since then, they should have increased. I'll give you the encrypted tables, Mr. Senesael!.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u27	Madam Minister, thank you for these explanations and the figures you are going to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u28	Madam Secretary, I have a question about the umpteenth new type of cigarette. Come on against Cancer has already warned against it in an opinion piece and a letter to you. It's about a new electrical device that warms up tobacco instead of burning. According to tobacco giant Philip Morris less harmful substances are released, but the VIGEZ and several other associations, including Kom op tegen Kanker have already warned strongly about this new way of smoking. They therefore wrote to you a letter to warn you about the product. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What impact does the new cigarette have on the health of the smoker? Can you compare this with the traditional cigarette and traditional e-cigarette? Are there any figures on that? Are you expecting the new type of cigarette in Belgium soon? Why is that, or why not? If that new cigarette appears to us, will you take measures? If so, what measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u29	Mrs. Dedry, IQOS is a product recently launched by Philip Morris. According to the information that my services have obtained, the product is traded in a number of neighbouring countries, such as the Netherlands and France, but I have no information that it would already be traded in Belgium. I have no knowledge of independent studies that demonstrate the health impact of IQOS, as it is a fairly recent product. At this stage it is therefore not possible to compare the impact of the product on health with an e-cigarette or ordinary cigarette. It'll take some time to check that out. The Royal Decree of 5 February 2016 gives good legal protection to the consumer. It states that manufacturers of new tobacco products must submit an electronic notification to the Public Health Office six months before the intended date of placing on the market. Currently, the FOD has not received a file, so we expect that the product will not be available on the Belgian market within six months. My services are also in contact with the public authorities of the other European Member States responsible for this dossier. If Philip Morris decides to market the product also in Belgium, my services will also analyse the submitted file. This is a product that clearly contains tobacco. As a result, all the legal provisions applicable to such products will also apply, i.e. the ban on advertising, the ban on sales to under 16 year olds, the ban on use in public places, as is the case with electronic cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Because Kom op v. Kanker has sent you a letter, I suppose they have received the same reply from you and that they are aware of the latest state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u31	Madam President, Minister, zinc oxide is a product that has been used for some time for medicinal uses in animals. Only years ago France and the Netherlands went to Europe with a procedure against the product. There has been a lot of discussion at European level and the decision would have been taken that Member States could allow the use of the product for another five years. The previous Minister for Health, Mrs Onkelinx, said that there was a positive opinion from the AMCRA that it was allowed on the Belgian market because it is mainly thanks to this product that the use of critical antibiotics, for example, has been drastically reduced in the pig sector. Madam Secretary, I would have liked to know where we stand on that. What are we doing with that five-year period? I also understood that an additional working group would be set up at AMCRA to examine whether we should allow the full transitional period to be exceeded or whether we should speed up the implementation of it. I would have liked to have gotten an update from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u32	Madam President, Ms Muylle, the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products of the European Union has delivered a negative opinion on the overall benefit-risk ratio for animal medicinal products containing zinc oxide for oral administration to food-producing animals. Our country has therefore supported the European Commission's decision to phase out the use of zinc oxide as an authorised premixture in medicated feed. Our preference was for a phasing-out period that was the same for the whole Union, so that all pharmaceutical companies concerned would be treated on an equal footing in all Member States, which seems fair and square to me, and also the safest. However, as you know, the European Commission's decision provides for a maximum period of five years within which individual Member States are to withdraw authorisations for oral veterinary medicinal products containing zinc oxide. As regards the phase-out of zinc oxide as a premixture, consultations are taking place not only between my cabinet and Minister Ducarme's cabinet, but also with the relevant administrations. We are also discussing the position of the surrounding Member States. We are trying as much as possible, including through bilateral talks between our agencies. By means of mutual agreement, we want to strive to align the periods of phasing-out as much as possible, which I think would be a good thing. The phasing-out will certainly have to take place, given the negative opinion, but you also know that it cannot be the intention that antibiotic use, which has therefore been substantially reduced, should now go back up. We have to be careful with that. On the other hand, of course, we do not want all piglets lying dead in their stables. It is about people's livelihoods, but of course it is also about food safety and public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u33	Madam Secretary, that seems to me to be a logical answer. I'll follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u34	This summer a report was published in the media about the heavy painkiller Oxycodon. The figures were very worrying: in 2015, 66,000 Belgians used the medicine. This is a big increase compared to 2011, when it was only 27,000 Belgians. Following an investigation, the Academic Centre for General Medicine has tied the bell to this increase. Oxycodone turns out to be a painkiller that's not unspoken. Certainly in the United States there is a real epidemic of addicts of this medicine. Some deaths of celebrities would be due to the use of this painkiller, such as that of singer Prince. In any case, the use of heavy painkillers has unfortunately been in the elevator in recent years. In ten years, the number of doses went from 31 million to 65 million. That's not nothing. It is clear that the use of the painkiller has serious consequences. Researchers at the Academic Center for General Medicine give uplifting figures about the number of overdoses and side effects and warn about the use of this medicine. My questions to you are the following. Are you aware of the increase in consumption of this medicine? What is your position on this? Will you take measures to reduce this level of consumption? If so, which one? Will you take measures regarding the prescription behaviour of doctors? What timing do you foresee for the measures to reduce the use of these and other heavy painkillers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u35	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, there is an increase in the use of strong painkillers. My services are also following that evolution closely. Fortunately, the situation in the United States is fundamentally different from that in Belgium. In the United States, the threshold for using phase 3 painkillers has been reduced to non-existent. Patients in the United States do not accept pain after surgery or after any procedure and often threaten legal proceedings against their doctor. Therefore, because of fear there is far too little use of Stage 1 pain medicines, which are the paracetamol painkillers and anti-inflammatory drugs, and even of Stage 2 drugs, which are weak opioids, such as tramadol, which is not weak at all, and tilidine. In the United States, therefore, heavy painkillers are being used more quickly. Those products are bought massively. Almost every household also contains unused packaging such as Oxycodone. Scientific research has clearly shown that the use of strong painkillers, which in many cases are provided by family or relatives, is also the basis for a later addiction. Fortunately, that situation has not yet been reported here. We are looking for different explanations for the sharp increase. Firstly, the problem of chronic pain has become better known over the past decade. As there is more attention to pain symptoms, they can also be treated better and more intensively. In addition, we notice a significant increase in the number of patients with chronic pain symptoms due to the ageing of the population but also through the survival of heavy treatments such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy or heavy surgery. These are people who sometimes develop chronic pain. In the past, stair 3-painkillers were also reserved for cancer patients only. However, now they are also used for patients with non-oncological pain. Think of the chronic back pain, for example. As a result, the duration of average treatment with strong opioids increases significantly. The increase in use can also be partly explained by a tendency to move faster to that third staircase and to use steps 1 and 2 less driven. The latter two elements, in particular a faster transition to Stage 3 and the longer duration of treatment, are elements which should not only be properly followed up, but also require medical intervention. Doctors who have first used all the possibilities of Stage 1 and Stage 2 before, in consultation with the patient, making a possible step to Step 3, must follow such treatment continuously, always pursue the lowest dose and also reduce it. They should always allow treatment discontinuation to be addressed. Long-term treatment with strong opioids can induce a toxic syndrome called opioid-induced hyperalgesia, where the patient is starting to experience more and more pain in relation to opioid intake and therefore will take ever higher doses and thus enter a vicious circle. Education is essential here. The training on painkillers should be extended, both in the bachelor's programme and in the master's programme in medicine. This should cover, inter alia, the following aspects: a correct indication of opioid treatment, multimodal analgesia, i.e. combining different treatments to use a much lower dosage of medication, maximum use of supportive treatments, a better approach to recent pain symptoms, so that they cannot become chronic, and recognition of the emergence of opioid-induced hyperalgesia. Consideration should also be given to how opioid treatment can be discontinued and discontinued. A recent report by Kom op tegen Kanker also revealed clearly that the training and knowledge of painkillers is often insufficient in doctors. Consultations are being launched with universities and scientific associations to raise the use of strong opioids to a higher level. The RIZIV control authorities also play an important role in this and have already taken initiatives to sit around the table with all involved partners and demand the correct use of strong painkillers. There too, however, the education of patients plays an important role. As with all other painkillers, e.g. anti-inflammatory drugs, patients should be reminded of the effects of long-term use of strong opioids. One should also regularly discuss the phase-out and need for discontinuation and encourage patients to also consider non-medical ways of pain relief. In short, we must work with both sides, the prescribers and the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u36	Madam Secretary, I agree that this must be done on both fronts. I assume that you will make the necessary arrangements with regard to training, a competence you share with the Land Ministers, and pass on your concerns to them. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u37	Madam President, Madam Minister, the press has relayed the concerns of those in charge of the Francophone relief zones. Indeed, you would like to reduce the ambulance fleet by 25%, the objective being obviously to save money again by concentrating supply in the most populated urban centres. Emergency zone officials believe that this service to the population is at risk and would even constitute a certain danger for the population specifically in rural areas, such as Luxembourg or certain areas of the province of Liège. Minister, are you really considering a 25% reduction in the ambulance fleet? Could you give us a detailed outline of your project if it exists? What savings do you intend to achieve in this context? Emergency zone officials rightly believe that the movement of vehicles would increase, and therefore that citizens should wait longer but also pay more, knowing that a package, then a price per kilometre, is currently being applied. Do you confirm these negative consequences for the population? If not, how do you intend to avoid them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u38	Madam President, Minister, my colleague has just pointed out a few things that I think are important. In May 2017, your policy was clearly to state that an ambulance was required on-site within 15 minutes in 90% of cases. Therefore, in collaboration with the Inland FPS, since this subject falls under the responsibility of both firms, you were counting on the number of ambulances, type, location. You indicated that you wanted to pay particular attention to areas with lower population density, rural areas. That was what you said. There is, however, what you have kept silent. I was arrested in August 2017 by emergency service officials who sound the alarm because a 25% reduction in the ambulance fleet is planned. However, with such a decrease, travel will be longer. Patients will have to wait longer. We will then find ourselves in an impossible situation with a higher cost to the patient and a reduced service to the population. We will have to deal with public health issues related to the emergency. The duration is fundamental for emergency response. I would therefore like to take stock with you because I am concerned about the information from the relief services. Minister, what about it? Do you actually plan to reduce the number of ambulances by 25%? What is the development of the budget, which is the nerve of war?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u39	Colleagues, thank you for your questions. Mr. Frédéric, I am afraid that those in charge of the French-speaking relief areas have been misinformed about the plan for unplanned care. The Council of Thematic Ministers on 13 and 14 May allocated an additional budget, in particular for the reform of emergency medical aid. These are not savings; on the contrary, this reform requires investment. The aim is to develop an architecture and mechanisms to achieve a more targeted and effective use of the resources allocated to the chain of emergency medical aid. In order to carry out the first phase of the plan for urgent medical aid, the government has granted me an annual budget of 35 million euros. This first phase will be based on five priority areas: setting the rates for the provision of urgent medical assistance and making the invoice legible and transparent for the patient; sustaining the funding granted to ambulance services; strengthening medical dispatches; strengthening strategic support within urgent medical aid; and ensuring the implementation of legal acts. It will also include ITPs in the current legislative framework. For the first time since the Emergency Medical Assistance Act 1964, the minimum service threshold will be defined. The Level Agreement (SLA) is designed to ensure that 90% of emergency medical assistance interventions are completed within 15 minutes. In the interests of efficiency and effectiveness, simulations were carried out on the number of departures required to reach this threshold. They show that the ALS could be maintained for 350 departures, 17% less than the current departures. A sine qua non condition in order to achieve this objective is that each ambulance departure permanence be carried out under roof. If this condition is not met, the Level Agreement (SLA) service cannot be guaranteed and de facto, the reduction in the number of departures will be excluded. I was able to see that the discussion on reducing the number of ambulances was prompted by an out-of-context interpretation of this unplanned care plan. It is clear from the maps that there are grey areas but also white areas in the south and north-west of the country. It shows that the ALS does not take place within 15 minutes but can take up to 40 minutes. In my opinion, it has been a dangerous situation for decades. I think it's hard to explain to patients that you have to wait three times longer for a PIT or an ambulance depending on where you live. It is not only a matter of quality but also of efficiency and efficiency. It is apparent from the simulations we have done that 98% of the interventions could be carried out within 20 minutes. Reducing the deadline to 100% seems utopian but it must remain an objective because there will always be exceptional situations influencing this statistic. The fourth axis of my plan is therefore of great importance, since interventions which do not respond to this ALS will have to be the subject of improvements. That's why I need additional financial resources to install PITs or ambulances in grey or white areas. My plan is submitted for validation to all actors involved in emergency medical aid through the National Emergency Medical Relief Council. So I think you've had some kind of misinformation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer, which brings water to my mill. Even if the source was wrong, my question wasn't stupid.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u41	No, no, she wasn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u42	It at least makes it possible to get things right. I share your concern. You will always receive our support if your objective is to improve the time taken for intervention with a view to shortening the deadlines as much as possible, especially in rural areas. This should be the case everywhere, but it is certain that, in some communes in my district, it is not advisable to have a heart attack because the time to take care of it is excessive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u43	Madam Minister, your remarks are being televised with those of the rescue services. Everything will depend on how you achieve the architecture - I do not have these cards available, which it would be interesting to get - and what you mean by a more targeted use of urgent medical aid. Depending on the political choices made, when such an architecture is changed, potentially harmful effects can occur, depending on how distances are taken into account, population densities are taken into account. Rescue officials say that you would have the will, perhaps formulated in a meeting, to concentrate supply in the most populated urban centres. If we proceed in this way, I can very well imagine that we are seeing in cascade a real difficulty in relation to the less densely populated regions – especially rural areas. It is not unusual for emergency service officials to take such a decision in August, two months after the Council of Ministers on 13 and 14 May. I therefore stress to you the need for a dialogue with these officials, for these points to be clarified, for you to be able together – in the North, the South and Brussels – to define a qualitatively positive project for the patient and feasible from the point of view of the rescue services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u44	Madam Minister, I am asking several ministers this question because, at European and international level, we are increasingly moving towards taxing companies with what is called due diligence, i.e., they must measure each time the impact of their activities on human rights, social clauses and the environment. Increasingly, health is being incorporated into these obligations. Companies must therefore assess the impact of their activities, they must take preventive measures but also remedial measures in case of problems. If the company fails to meet these obligations, there will be accountability for the company. I will also question Minister Geens because there is a reform of the Corporate Code, and Minister Peeters because there is a National Business Plan in which this system is not mentioned. In the fipronil case, it is realized that there has been an unforeseen use of a substance and that this should be part of these due diligence obligations. Care must be taken to ensure that products that are placed on the market are not misused, but this was not the case for companies that supplied fipronil. Minister, as part of the ongoing reforms, do you intend to put this principle of due diligence on the table of the government's discussions so that it is taken into account by each minister, according to his or her jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u45	Mrs Gerkens, it is true that we must remain vigilant about the impact of the products available on the Belgian or European markets in terms of public health or the environment. As you know, the European Union has a wide range of laws and regulations to deal with. The application of these rules shall be monitored and any infringements shall be punished. It remains to be seen whether the application of due diligence principles as you envisage it is the most appropriate answer to these concerns. Let us not forget that the fipronil crisis was caused by the fraudulent use of this substance! The authorities responsible for this matter have detected this fraud in time and criminal proceedings will follow suit. I believe that this episode demonstrates that our regulatory framework in Europe, but also in our country, is effective in protecting health and the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u46	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. However, it is a little short because the use of fipronil under conditions that were not foreseen was apparently known in the livestock sector. The actors could therefore have been vigilant. For example, when people use substances of the same order as anti-pockets for their children, one is, too, faced with an erroneous use. Should we not be held accountable for due diligence? Would this not force companies to question how their products are used and what they need to put in place to stop them from being misused? That is the subject of my question. Perhaps other means should be used? However, it seems to me that it is worth asking the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u47	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to Article 13, § 2 of the Royal Decree of 21 January 2009, "expired and unused medicinal products for human and veterinary use, which are handed over by the patient and the person in charge of the animals, shall be handed over to the wholesaler-partitioner or manufacturer for destruction". As a result, I am reminded that more than 520 tons of medicines were destroyed in 2015 and that a significant part of them were not out of date. Yet, as you know, 15 per cent of our population lives below the poverty line and one in five citizens still postpone care because of lack of resources. The cost of drugs is thus a real problem for a still too large part of our population. And the measures you have taken to reduce the reimbursement of a whole range of medicines have obviously only made things worse. This is a situation that we cannot accept. Minister, don't you think that drugs that patients put back in a pharmacy when they are not out of date could be useful to those who are pre-carried who are unable to pay for their medications right now? Do you not think that this waste could be avoided and the legislation adapted to allow doctors to redistribute these unused and unexpired medicines to people in need? The press has recently echoed the establishment of "solidary pharmaceuticals" for patients in extreme poverty who, despite existing mechanisms, such as the BIM status, do not have the means to buy the medicines they need to treat themselves. What is your position on these initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u48	Minister, you cannot ignore the initiative that has been taken to set up a joint pharmacy by Dr. Bouillon in Ghlin. It provides for the harvesting of unexpired drugs. They have sorted and listed many medicines and have already redistributed them to some particularly disadvantaged people, or even to people who do not have access to mutual reimbursement. More than 520 tons of drugs are destroyed, and this figure only includes drugs reported to pharmacies. This is therefore a substantive, two-fold issue. What is being done about drug wastage? In addition, initiatives such as Dr. Bouillon's are commendable. I don't think we can sweep them off the back of our hand. It is useful to consider their usefulness and their added value, in the light of the reality of the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u49	Mr Frédéric, Mrs Fonck, I was indeed aware of the solidarity pharmacy initiative developed a few weeks ago in the Montoise region. The doctor responsible for this initiative has sent me a letter on this subject and has already received a reply. I must point out that the provision of medicines, even free of charge, is an activity that is part of the exercise of pharmaceutical art under the regulations governing the exercise of health care professions. In this case, the medicines are delivered by a doctor and not by a pharmacist. The usual performance of this activity therefore amounts to an illegal exercise of pharmaceutical art. In addition, our national legislation prohibits the simultaneous exercise of the medical and pharmaceutical arts. Beyond the criminal nature of this initiative, these offences, it is important that all patients, including the poorest, receive high-quality medicines. I would point out that the players in the drug distribution service are subject to strict requirements for analysis, storage, transport, traceability and registration of data, in order to ensure the quality of medicines throughout the chain. In this case, however, the medicines collected and redistributed have already been previously delivered to patients by the pharmacists, from whom they have left the official place to be kept at the patient's home. The risks of alteration are therefore not controlled and no one can guarantee their quality. I recall that all patients, without exception, have the right to receive quality medicines. In addition, the delivery by the pharmacist also ensures that the patient receives the appropriate pharmaceutical care, in the proper use of the medicines, taking into account the specifics of the patient. Secondly – and this is the second part – we must reduce the waste of medicines. In this regard, my services have been working for many years, among other things, to promote the rational prescription of drugs. It is important to continue this work of awareness and information of the prescriber. On the other hand, it is possible to make better use of existing provisions to reduce the cost of drug treatments. One example is the prescription by physicians of the duration of therapy – a week or a day –. From this prescription, the pharmacist can split a drug, i.e. divide a large drug pack to best match the prescribed duration. Another viable path lies in the delivery of medicines in the form of individual medication preparations. Finally, it should be recalled that doctors are authorized to receive samples of medicines from pharmaceutical companies and to hand them over to the patient in situations of emergency and medical necessity, but also of social distress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u50	Madam Minister, Mrs. Fonck and I interviewed you. You're answering us. All three of us have a common point, but also a fundamental difference. We are elected parliamentarians; you are two doctors, but I am not! Perhaps my vision will seem naive to you, but it corresponds to the state of mind of the average citizen I am in the field of health. How can I explain to a person with a major concern for health and who cannot afford medicines, that 520 tons of medicines are destroyed a year – not to mention those of whom nothing is known? That you invoke the need to guarantee a drug quality is obvious! Although I'm not a doctor, I know we don't have to hand over a half-filled bottle of serum to the first person to come. I am talking about drugs that are stored in boxes, that have sometimes never served and whose expiry date is far from being exceeded. In general, the person who takes care of giving medication to the pharmacist – and this is not a majority – kept it at home. Again, perhaps my remark suffers from naivety. I understand the concern to guarantee, even to the most deprived, the maximum quality of medicines, but you will not remove me from the head - and this well suits the pharmaceutical companies - that tons of medicines could be given to people in need and in a situation of extreme emergency, who fail to treat themselves on the grounds that a doctor cannot deliver these products to them. I'll be 60 next year. How many times have I been given samples of drugs in my life? Did I see if they were sealed and kept properly? They came from the doctor's drawer, which said: "Try this a week!" It's already a common practice. The common sense of the almost naïve citizen I am in matters of health cannot accept the fullness of the answer, even if I technically understand what you are telling me. If anyone asks me about this tomorrow, I don't know how I'll explain it to people. We're facing abuse. That's not acceptable. I'm not politicizing the point, but you know like me that people have to choose between one medicine and another. I hear that every day. Masses of suitable medicines can be used, but they say no, because the law says so. The law says so, but that is how clandestine networks will be formed, over which we will no longer have any control. It's normal, we respect the law. I am a legalist, but I find that, in substance, we are dealing here with a real social debate. I'm not saying I'm right. I'm trying to be the voice of the people, that's why I'm here. I want to understand and also to be able to explain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u51	Of course, Madam Minister, it is not possible to imagine that a person with major difficulties will be able to get a drug that is not known whether it is still effective or not. The quality of medicines must concern everyone and not just those who have the means to treat themselves. That being said, what are you answering? "Today is the illegal exercise of pharmaceutical art." You don't even open the door to another way of looking at the issue. You speak of pure and harsh application of the law. However, the question is not to remind me of the law today. I know her. The issue is whether we open a door for the future. I want to tell you two things. The first is that doctors are already distributing samples. The second is that Dr. Bouillon works in collaboration with a pharmacist in tandem. The pharmacist can then bring all his art, as is the case for pharmaceutical art, on the aspect of quality, but also, possibly, on the subject of expired or expired medicines in order to ensure the elimination of these in the rules of the art. The idea of this medical/pharmaceutical tandem in well-targeted situations for precarised patients is interesting, not to sweep with a backhand. Minister, therefore, I can only encourage you to re-examine the matter with a different perspective. He's worth it. In any case, it deserves to be asked a number of questions that are supposed to arise, while guaranteeing the qualitative aspects. I don't think that's incompatible. If I follow your reasoning, when a patient has been on medication for months at home and takes them back himself, we can't guarantee quality either. Finally, with regard to waste, the issue of liability for prescription and issuance arises. I heard what you said about that. For my part, I believe that for certain types of drugs, such as anti-infectives, given public health issues with respect to the inappropriate use of certain antibiotics, it would be interesting to ask ourselves the question of the distribution that fits the duration of treatment. In most cases, the packaging of the boxes is absolutely not suitable. Either the treatment lasts too long, or it's wasteful, or patients take only one box and don't buy a second, if they only have a day or two of treatment to follow. That's a problem! In the end, it is disastrous in terms of public health, in terms of waste, and it is not good for the patient either. I therefore believe that measures could be taken quickly for anti-infectives. They would only lead to a global win-win. I imagine we will come back to that in another debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u52	Obviously, measures must be taken to ensure that drugs are not wasted and therefore overprescribed. At the same time, how can we benefit those in need of medication? I imagine that firms are obliged to keep packaged drugs for a certain time and to ensure that they are not damaged by different methods of storage. There are probably regulations to check with producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u53	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you know, I have tabled a motion for a resolution to ensure the availability of iodine in Belgium in the event of a nuclear accident, which has been adopted. I will not recall the stakes involved, including what can happen in a neighbouring country, or even further away? Remember how many thyroid cancers were detected in children and adolescents who had been exposed at the time of Chernobyl. Minister, the vote has now taken place seven months ago. What is the status of the implementation of this iodine availability for all Belgian citizens? Remember the study of KCE and geographic circles. In practice, the whole territory must be covered and all citizens must be covered. It is therefore time to take stock of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the National Nuclear Emergency Plan is also the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. This plan, which describes the organisation of the protection of the population and the food chain in the event of a nuclear crisis, is being updated. The strategy for the protection of the thyroid against radioactive iodine, which could be propagated in the event of a crisis, is the subject of discussions between the federal public services of the interior and public health. In addition to sheltering, the preventive use of iodine pills may also be one of the recommendations to follow. In the framework of this consultation, it is examined whether the availability of iodine tablets throughout the country is possible or whether it can be limited to an area of 20 km around nuclear sites and 10 km for the Fleurus region, as is the case today, while focusing on the most vulnerable groups, namely children, young adults, pregnant women and breastfeeding women. As soon as there is an effective plan to extend the pre-distribution of iodine tablets, it will be carried out in consultation with my colleague from Safety and Interior during a future information campaign that is likely to take place in early 2018. In collaboration with the Minister of the Interior, specific information is distributed to various stakeholders including general practitioners, pharmacists and communities outside designated areas. The preparatory work is currently under way and the iodine tablets have been ordered by my colleague from the Security and Interior Department. The package leaflet accompanying the tablets has been clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u55	Madam Minister, we are seven months later. This subject is still under discussion. This text has been tabled for several years. We're going in circles all the time, and even more, since you're telling us two things. First that this "may" be part of the recommendations and then, whether it be for the whole territory or only within the 20 km perimeter around the nuclear power plants and 10 km around Fleurus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u56	No! It'll be for the whole territory. Currently, the perimeter is 20 km.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u57	We therefore agree that it will be for the whole territory. Why do you tell us that this can be part of the recommendations? My question is simple. Will we get out of this roundabout, yes or no? We have been discussing this subject for years and I have tabled a text; it has been difficult to vote for seven months. It was complicated. Unfortunately, in the event of a nuclear accident, there are quantities of nuisances against which we do not know how to protect ourselves. But if one thing is certain, it is that properly administered radioactive iodine treatment blocks thyroid uptake, thus avoiding thyroid cancer. It's evidence-based. Are we finally going out of this roundabout and heading for a realization? That's my only question. I'm realizing that I'm going to come back every three months to ask you where that is. This ping-pong between you and the Minister of the Interior seems irresponsible to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u58	Mrs Fonck, I have to tell you that Minister Jambon and I have something else to do but ping-pong! I'm sure there's no argument between us. It'll be for the whole territory because we've expanded the perimeter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u59	When?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u60	When it's set up! Now we're still talking about how we're gonna make the distribution. Before that, it was the army that took care of it. It was pretty chaotic, I think. The drugs were still in bunkers; it is no longer known where or under what conditions. The method of distribution and redistribution must be changed. We are thinking, as I said, of working with doctors, with pharmacists, but also with communities like schools, for example. Indeed, who are the fragile people? They're also the kids. Where are they? They are often in school. You have to think about it. It makes sense to have medication to distribute to children at school instead of each parent driving to school when something happens. I repeat, there's no argument between us. The whole territory will be affected because we've expanded the perimeter. We're not in Canada! If we consider all the nuclear power stations that are located on our territory or in the neighbouring countries, within the perimeter, then there is no 5 km2 left in our country where we could supposedly be safe. It's better to do it for the whole country. We agree on that. We are also only doing it for those for whom it helps: children, young people, pregnant women and breastfeeding women. That's evidence based. One should not give it to 90-plussers. That's also evidence based. So I do not know what you are getting so excited about, because that is the answer I have already given. You were here at the time. I gave the same answer to Jean-Marc Nollet a few months ago, when we continued with the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u61	The subject is simple, the problem is simple and the answers to it are simple. Yes, indeed, it is a matter of working with actors, doctors and pharmacists. Yes, indeed, there is a need for a focused and more specific approach to communities. But we've known that for months. Stop turning around in circles – I didn't say you were fighting, you're playing the watch – and move forward and put this project into practice. It is exhausting to observe this significant number of cases that have not been completed for months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u62	Joined Questions No 20174 by Mr Nollet and No 20210 by Mr Thiébaut are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u63	Minister, I have addressed these questions to you and to the Minister for Social Integration. Since the questions are quite different and the skills are shared, I will ask you only about what you are dealing with this urgent medical aid. The government has announced its intentions to limit access to emergency medical assistance by clarifying the concept of "emergency character", to increase controls and to sanction. MediPrima is the computerized system that allows the electronic management of decisions to take care of emergency medical aid by CPAS. In addition to hospitals, this system now also includes general practitioners. If it accelerates the reimbursement of care, this tool becomes a tool for monitoring physicians who abuse the urgency and/or CPAS that would mislead their social investigation. It is therefore surprising to learn that controls will be further strengthened. This is in any case what was included in the communication. Before the holidays, Minister Borsus said that the concept of urgent care needed to be redefined. His approach seemed inappropriate to me because, in this new definition, dental care, pregnancy follow-up, etc. were no longer taken up, which are nevertheless front-line or preventive benefits necessary to avoid infections or serious health problems. Minister, how are you going to guarantee the fundamental right to care for all? How will you guarantee care, beyond emergencies in the first and short sense, especially for chronically ill people, pregnant women, all illegal residents who are not covered by sickness and disability insurance? What does it mean for you to "redefine the urgency of health care" for these people? Is the goal of eliminating primary care or preventive care? How, for example, will people in precarious situations be able to consult a dentist? A recent French study already showed that dental problems were particularly important for people in difficulty, including those who are not covered by sickness and disability insurance. Finally, how can doctors assess the quality of social surveys conducted by CPAS workers? Indeed, it appears that such expectation appears in your announcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u64	Mrs Gerkens, since I was previously Secretary of State for Social Integration, I know that your question is not for me. Rather, it concerns Mr Ducrame, who is temporarily in charge of this matter. Care benefits in case of emergency medical assistance are fully reimbursed in this context, but provided that the social report of the CPAS contains a medical certificate proving the urgency of the medical aid and that it appears from the file that the person concerned is in need. It is therefore the doctor who sees the urgency of the situation and who guarantees access to care. You know that the CAAMI (Assistant Sickness and Disability Insurance Fund), in the framework of MediPrima, then checks, on the basis of samples, whether there was an emergency medical aid certificate and whether the content is correct. The implementation of these controls is contained in the draft law amending articles 2 and 9ter of the Act of 2 April 1965 on the care of relief provided by public welfare centres. If necessary, the doctor or dentist may explain that this is urgent medical assistance. This is therefore no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u65	What surprised me in this statement – and I am also referring to Minister Ducrame – is that a doctor has to identify the urgency of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u66	That is why I am replying to you that it is up to the doctor to check whether urgent assistance is required. In this case, he must provide it. I have often explained this in my former capacity as Secretary of State. This also applies to dentists. Now, we can check and take samples in order to carry out controls via CAAMI.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u67	In this case, I think that we must refrain, as a member of a government, from making statements that such care is not considered urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u68	No. It's not up to us to decide, it's up to the doctor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u69	It is communications from the government that make me respond. I didn't make them up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u70	That would be crazy! No. It is up to the doctor to make this decision, as it depends on the patient, the circumstances, the situation, the way he is housed or the fact that he has no accommodation, etc. We can't set up lists and operate copy-paste.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u71	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u72	It is really up to the doctor to decide whether such a situation is an emergency medical aid situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u73	We agree on that dimension. I hope that Mr Ducrame will join you as well, and that this communication was a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u74	Minister, I come back to this on a regular basis, and since I know that the last straight line is now being addressed in the consultation with the field, I would like to take a look at the situation as the issue is fundamental for general practitioners. With regard to the reform of the guard stations last July, you announced decisions and consultation rounds with a deadline set for September. As comments came back from the field, without reminding you of everything you had announced, I am asking you new questions. The Task Force was awaiting feedback from the partners in the consultation. Did she receive them? Have there been any new exchanges with general practitioners about your concept note in order to make it evolve? What is the status of the dialogue with the actors on the ground on this reform? Is the note finalized? Can we have clarifications on its content? Could we even dispose of it? If it is completed, how is this note received by the actors in the field? If it is not yet accessible, when will it be? As regards 1733, has the evaluation of pilot projects in East Flanders, Hainaut, Arlon and Leuven been finalised? If so, what are the conclusions? If not, when will this evaluation be available? Could you inform us of the status of the implementation of an alert terminal allowing the safe sending of the record of the interview of the operator of the 1733 plant to the medical guard stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u75	Mrs Fonck, I can confirm that the Task Force has received comments from the various partners. It has been confronted, in the comments and claims of the partners, with several elements of divergence between them. The consolidation of these elements was therefore not evident and a new meeting with the partners was held on 21 September to reread the concept note. It takes up the main axes you mentioned: the coverage of the entire country by networks of guard stations with, in support, sorting 1733. With the task force, we will deepen the concrete implementation of the reform plans in the coming months. With regard to the scientific study conducted at Leuven-Tienen on triage 1733, the study team has demonstrated points of improvement, such as the use of keywords in triage protocols. In collaboration with the scientific team, these keywords are being revised. When they are operationalized, a new scientific test should show an improvement. All this takes place knowing that the monitoring of the sorting protocols will be the subject of continuous monitoring. I mean, I'm coming to the alert terminal. The current schedule provides that it should be available for shiftwork as of the first half of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u76	Minister, I had mentioned this in a soft way, but I was aware of the differences going up the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u77	I would point out that these are also differences between them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u78	Different realities exist. In my personal capacity, I have always argued, in this crucial issue for the future of general medicine - and I weigh every word - for taking into account different realities on the ground. Sometimes there are shortages. Sometimes we also have two realities, urban and rural. Sometimes there is a distribution of hospitals where we can, or cannot, work in synergy with general practitioners. We can also have medical posts; others have had drivers. The reality is multiple! What I hear is that you had a new meeting on September 21 for a rereading. Good! May I insist that this rereading work be a real work of consultation with the actors on the ground. Do not lock yourself in a single model! Do not lock yourself in a strict, pure and hard approach to networks. That would deny the multiple realities. If we want to make it a success, we will have to apply a minimum of flexibility to be in line with practice. Finally, as far as scientific study 1733 is concerned, there is certainly still work to be done. But even if this important work is to be done, it seems to me that the essential thing is missing: to find a positive outcome for all general practitioners, which will have a positive impact on all patients and on the quality of our health care system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u79	Minister, in the discussions on Budgets and Policy Projects 2018, you are announcing $22.5 million to reimburse clinical psychology services for people with moderate psychological problems, considering that mild problems are being addressed by general practitioners, that serious problems are being dealt with by specialist practitioners and that, on the other hand, moderate problems are not taken into account. You therefore plan, in any case in the communications that are made, three or four sessions per person being in this situation, via clinician psychologists and on prescription or guidance by the general practitioner, provided that this is included in the patient's overall medical record. On what scientific basis do you estimate this budget at 22.5 million? How are moderate problems defined? Your proposal presupposes the identification of a predetermined method of intervention. On what basis and with what free choice for the patient of the clinician psychologist for example? What if there is a mismatch between the person's functioning, choices and the proposed and reimbursed care offer? Do you confirm that these benefits are not considered psychotherapeutic benefits? How do you qualify them then? Which health professionals do they have the skills they deem appropriate to achieve them? Finally, why do you require a prescription from the general practitioner when the law recognizes that clinician psychologists, if there are only those who can do so, an autonomy of intervention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u80	Madam President, my question is of a completely different order. We are all familiar with the principle of parallel imports. A medicinal product commercialised in one Member State can be imported simultaneously from another Member State. For example, a medicinal product with the same name can be distributed by several firms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u81	That's the next question. You also ask a question about psychological help for young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u82	Madam President, my question is not included.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u83	The links between the questions go through the firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u84	Madam President, Mrs Muylle tells me that my question was added this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u85	Madam Minister, in our country we have a problem of undertreatment due to a lack of and non-refunding of psychological guidance and, on the other hand, a problem of overtreatment by too much medication. As you know, I welcome the recognition of clinical psychologists. I also support the fact that cooperation is multidisciplinary and I am in favour of your plans to integrate it into the GMD. However, I do not understand what we will do with EUR 22.5 million per year. That seems to me far too little to do anything with. I'm just gonna do a little math. If you take EUR 37 for a consultation, more or less similar to a general practitioner, you could finance 608 000 consultations with this amount. Calculating an average of five consultations per patient, only 121 000 patients can be helped. However, on the basis of a study by the KULeuven carried out only in adults, 764 000 persons with mild to severe mental disorders are estimated to be covered by the amount of EUR 22.5 million. Two very interesting documents have also been published with calculations of the Socialist Mutualities and Zorgnet Icuro. They both amount to a minimum amount of EUR 281 million per year, which is very far from the EUR 22.5 million you would make available annually. I know very well that apples cannot be compared with pears and that one research group is not the other, but there is a very big difference in the minimum estimate. My own modest calculation also shows that we will not jump far with the planned budget. My questions are therefore the following, Madam Secretary. Do you agree with me that the budget is inadequate? Has a growth scenario been agreed within the government? If so, what growth scenario and how? The Flemish Association of Clinical Psychologists agrees with the involvement in the GMD, but is rightly concerned about digitisation. Is there a separate budget to achieve this? Finally, are they involved in drawing up referrals by the general practitioner, so that it is absolutely an equivalent multidisciplinary cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u86	Madam Minister, the waiting period for a first intake for young people with psychological problems is still increasing. Your colleague, Mr Vandeurzen, has just been able to see that in the Flemish Government. A few weeks ago, he announced that he would invest 1 million euros in order to detect and treat psychological problems more quickly among young people. Additional online assistance will also be further developed. Due to the long waiting periods, more than 45 days on average for young people with severe mental and psychiatric problems, people are obliged to go to an independent psychologist, where they then have to pay the full pot. Your colleague's actions are certainly a first step, but will not be until tomorrow. In anticipation, people pay themselves blue. What exactly are your plans for reimbursement of psychotherapy? I agree with my colleague that the EUR 22.5 million seems far too little. I, too, have seen the calculations of Icuro and the Socialist Mutualities. That's about a whole different order. When can we expect measures or a first step? What will be the exact modalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u87	Dear colleagues, since the beginning of this Parliament, I have paid particular attention to mental health care. Thus, the law of 10 July 2016 aims to give a place to psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues as professionals in mental health care. Accreditation is a fundamental step in the overall quality of care services. This is why the Federal Council set up this summer is already drawing up opinions which will lead to the final setting of objectives in the context of obtaining an approval and a visa. As has always been announced, the development of a law requires many administrative and political decisions. However, there is no doubt that this is a perfect opportunity to expand front-line mental health care. If I may remind honourable Members, in all these years of health care, the health professions of psychologists and orthopedagogues have never been recognised as being health professions. Twenty-eight years of socialist policy, Mrs Jiroflée, and people have always been allowed to work among the ministers of the Middle East. A real disgrace, I might add. Now they are finally recognized. For the first time, a federal council for mental health professions has been set up. That's the first time since our federal health care system existed. I went to install that council. Those people didn't know what hit them. They never expected it to happen during this term of office, since they had asked for it for so many years. The budget I have been allocated has always been communicated that it can start in October, November and December 2018 at the earliest. You are already immediately making extrapolations for a whole year, Mrs. Dedry, but indeed, you are not Einstein, because Einstein knew the difference between a trimester and a year. We are talking about one quarter in which we are taking a first step towards funding, because we must, of course, have the opinions on how we are going to introduce it, even if fragmented, and where the highest needs lie that need to be met first. This budget will, of course, have to be increased over the next few years. I have never known that when a new branch of health care was set up, EUR 22.5 million was allocated immediately. That's 900 million Belgian francs, not nothing. People here pretend they're peanuts, but I've had to fight to convince the government of this. In the end, the coalition agreement does not even provide for funding, but only for examining it. I invite you to reread the coalition agreement: this would be investigated in the first legislature. We negotiated this together, Mrs Muylle, and you know how sensitive this was and how they decided not to put anything on how to finance it. We are now a little further than halfway through the legislature and a first step has been taken on funding. Could this be more? Of course, for me this could be tenfold. The more the merrier. It'll all be well spent. However, it is now the case. The way in which funding will be rolled out has already been discussed within the government for the first time. However, this has not yet been finalised. One and the other also have other modalities that they want to give. There is no discussion in this area, but there is consultation. A number of things are certain. We know, however, that we must not repeat the mistakes made in the past with regard to the financing of healthcare professions. I am very concerned about budget overruns and the lack of multidisciplinary cooperation and coordination that is needed. We are increasingly organising care via networks. It is therefore pointless, in my view, to allow a completely new profession to operate outside that framework. It will therefore be necessary to refer and refer back to the mental health networks as well. To this end, consultations are under way with the relevant ministers of the Communities, Minister Vandeurzen, Minister Greoli, who has been back, Minister Antoniadis and, as always, the four ministers concerned in Brussels. There is still a great deal of work to be done in this area. The Federal Council for Mental Health Occupations also works well. I am pleased to note that fellow Minister Vandeurzen has also made more money available for mental health care. Let me remind you that I too have already added EUR 28.5 million from a different mental health budget. We must have sufficient consultation to organise the matter properly in consultation with the Communities, not with a separate circuit, but with something that really fits into the network and meets the right needs. It must be properly organised in order to achieve the maximum impact for the patient with the available budget, which will of course still have to grow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u88	Madam Minister, first of all, my question was not intended as a criticism, it was a question of information, a clear question of information. I have had little insight into the modalities, but I would like to agree that this will take some time. Next, it does not really matter here, but I am tired of being accused of doing nothing in all these years of socialist policy as you call it. You seem to forget that you were present with most of these governments, that you were concerned and that it was your party that mostly opposed to social measures. They have even been mentioned in this way:'social measures'. I just want to say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u89	To go back in history, I remember the only time we had a minister of health with a green colour that we tried to get those psychologists...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u90	The minister didn't have a penny. The pennies were with Minister Vandenbroucke. Cooking costs money.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u91	First the lines and then, if you wish, I will give you the floor, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u92	That is indeed the title of the question, cooking costs money, indeed. In any case, thank you for your explanation. That wasn't clear in communication. I'm not saying it's your fault, but at least the communication hasn't been such that one could conclude that this was for 3 months in 2018. The only question I have left concerns a thorny point. Everything that has to do with digitalization is always very difficult and slow. It's complicated, too. Of course, it cannot be from that budget. I suppose this budget is really meant for the consultations and for the performance. Digitisation and file sharing are a major problem in the healthcare sector. I hope that this will be taken into account in order to provide a budget for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u93	Minister, I have not received an answer to many questions. These were more specific questions explaining a figure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u94	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u95	No, you didn't explain what this amount is based on. You're saying it's only worth a quarter. This means that an assessment has been made of an annual budget and a quarterly budget. As for the definition of moderate problems, this task may fall to the Federal Council, of which you have spoken, which will have to define many things. However, it is clear from the communication that these will be moderate problems. We don't know what that means. This will consist of three or four sessions with clinician psychologists as part of the overall medical record. There are details in the communication. You have not brought more precise elements about what is behind the words. Similarly, the reason for a physician's prescription requirement, while clinician psychologists, according to the new law, will in principle be autonomous. Finally, as regards the inclusion of follow-up in the overall medical file, I nevertheless have questions about the respect of patients and their rights. Indeed, many prefer that their follow-up for mental health problems remains between them and the therapist they will see, and that this information is not included in the file that could be used by caregivers. There is still an ethical question that I think needs to be discussed with patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u96	I explained how we got the amount, which was not provided for anywhere in the government agreement. It's a quarterly amount and not an annual amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u97	Yes, but why 22?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u98	Mrs Gerkens, you have already had budgetary discussions. We don't get 100 million for no reason. It was 22.5. That is what we are going to devote to the most urgent needs, and I welcome that. It had been communicated that this would not be possible. I have asked for the opinion of several bodies before October and I have already planned the budget for October.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u99	Madam Minister, I would have liked to hear you say that it was felt that this involved so many people, so many sessions, which is why we are getting that amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u100	Minister, the parallel importation of drugs is for a company to buy drugs abroad, negotiate them at the best price and repackage them before placing them on the market. Although the practice is legal and authorized by the Federal Medicines Agency, several specialists in the sector point to a lack of transparency in this practice. Madam Minister, what is your position with regard to this practice and in particular on the fact that it is being promoted by the European Union in order to lower the price of medicines, whereas in fact this is not the case and obviously to the detriment of patients? It appears that in the context of parallel importation, the generic version of certain medicinal products is repackaged with a blister of the original medicine. Is that legal? Do you not consider that in such cases, there is deceit vis-à-vis the patient? If so, are you considering taking steps to further guide this practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u101	Madam President, Minister, we are all familiar with the principle of parallel imports. A medicinal product marketed in a Member State can be imported simultaneously from another Member State. For example, a medicinal product with the same name can be distributed by several firms. In itself, this is already a questionable practice, which, apart from the profits for the companies in question, actually has little added value, but European legislation seems to make this possible. A study by the French-language magazine Médor did frown the eyebrows anyway. It appears, for example, that in our country, repacked generic medicines are being sold as original medicines on a large scale. Through two Belgian firms, which are owned by the same group, such repacked medicines have been imported into our country for at least five years. PI Pharma and Impexeco buy generics from a wholesaler in a European country, where the price is lower, and have them repacked by French, Irish, Belgian and mainly Romanian companies. These repacked medicines are sold as expensive or even more expensive in 80% of cases than the original branded products. It is estimated that this will cost social security between EUR 10 and EUR 15 million per year. Apparently, all this happens with the FAGG's permission. The FPS Economy determines the price on the basis of the files submitted by importing companies, but it fails because these companies charge 20 % to 25 % fictitious costs. The price for the repacked medicines turns out to be, coincidentally enough, usually on the cent the same as for the branded products. The patient therefore pays too high a price and the State often pays more back than for the generic variant. The fact that between buying and selling the medicines could change the name is really new information for me. According to the article, this would also involve health risks for medicines with a narrow therapeutic margin in the case of medicines whose maximum therapeutic concentration is very close to the level at which the medicine becomes toxic, e.g. antiepileptics or blood thinners. I do not want to push it so far that this may be dangerous, but ask me questions on the financial side of this matter. I have been told that this can be done perfectly under European regulations. In the meantime, we have seen the gentlemen in the Newspaper, very proud of what they are doing. In my view, these practices raise a lot of questions. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you if you are aware of these practices, although this is almost impossible because we are all aware of them. Do you think it is legal for products purchased elsewhere to be marketed under a different name? It is said that this is possible, but is it not a violation of trade mark law or misleading the consumer? Do you believe that the FAGG and the FOD Economy act correctly by allowing this to happen? Does this pose a health risk? This is also suggested. How do you feel about the additional costs this causes for health care and the patient? Can you and do you wish to take action in this respect? If so, which one? The patients and the State Treasury must not be the victims of large profits in the pharmaceutical sector, although I have the strong impression that this is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u102	Madam President, Minister, the content of my question is identical to that of my fellow Members, and I will not repeat everything. I quote the same pain points with the same amounts, because they have all been in the media. One figure that my fellow Members have not yet mentioned is that this year there have been 347 requests for such parallel imports and that they are all under consideration. As my fellow Members have already said, these applications are increasing, from 24 to 178 and already 347. So apparently it's a booming business. As my fellow Members have said, a consultant at the General Directorate of Economic Regulations of the FPS Economy says that the companies in one way or another easily declare 20 to 25 fictitious costs and that the FPS apparently fails to get a clear view of the accounts of those companies and is powerless. As already mentioned, the patient pays too high a price and the government often pays more back than for the generic variant. What has also been said is that there is usually no health risk, but there may be a potential danger for medicinal products with a narrow therapeutic margin. I have the following questions. What do you think of this evolution? What is your position on the matter? To what extent are patients really well informed about the origin of their medicines? Can you guarantee that a patient knows where his medicine comes from? What measures will you take with regard to this problem, taking into account what is cited by the FPS Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u103	Madam Minister, I obviously share the questions of my colleagues. But what concerns me in the investigation conducted by the newspaper Médor is that, in addition to the mechanism authorised at European level for the repackaging of medicinal products, any name may be given to repackaged medicinal products. In other words, the repackaged drug may be given a name other than that of the original drug, but the generic drug processed on a parallel market may also be reassigned the original name. Apparently, there is no prohibition of this practice, even though judgements have been handed down and cases are apparently ongoing. I wonder how the patient can be informed of the route of the medicines concerned. How can it be ensured that the substances in these medicinal products correspond well to those in the original medicinal products? How is traceability organised for such devices? How is the responsibility of the pharmacist engaged? What are the control capabilities we can have?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, subject to legal remedies under private law which the trademark owner can assert, there are no legal obstacles to this practice. Article 3(2) of the Royal Decree of 19 April 2001 on the parallel importation of medicinal products for human use and the parallel distribution of medicinal products for human and veterinary use lays down the conditions under which a product must obtain a parallel import authorisation. First, the medicinal product is the subject of a marketing authorisation in the Member State of provenance issued by the competent authorities of that State. Secondly, there is a reference medicine for this medicine. Thirdly, without being identical in all respects to the reference medicinal product, the medicinal product has at least the same qualitative and quantitative composition as active substances. It has at least the same therapeutic indications and is at least equivalent to the therapeutic level. Fourth, it has at least the same pharmaceutical form (galenic). The same Royal Decree defines a reference medicinal product as follows in Article 1(3): "A medicinal product which is the subject of a marketing authorisation in Belgium which has been granted in accordance with Article 6(1) of the Law of 25 March 1964 on medicinal products and to which the medicinal product to be imported in parallel is compared for the application of this Decree." It is therefore possible that a generic medicinal product may be imported in parallel with an original medicinal product as a reference medicine or vice versa, provided that it meets all the conditions described in Article 3(2) above. By its judgment in Kohlpharma GmbH 112/02 of 1 April 2004, the European Court of Justice confirmed that if these three conditions are met, a refusal to grant a parallel import authorisation simply because two medicinal products are not manufactured by the same manufacturer is contrary to the free movement of goods. It is therefore not necessary for the parallel imported medicinal product to come from the same manufacturer as the reference product, provided that the other parallel import conditions are met. The repacking of an original medicinal product of a generic medicinal product marketed in the Member State of origin is in principle authorised according to the relevant European case law, provided that the immediate packaging has not been opened. The Federal Agency for Medicines shall ensure that the therapeutic effect of the imported medicinal product and the medicinal product under whose name it is sold is the same. In addition, there is always the control that the mandatory information is mentioned here in the three official country languages on the packaging and in the package leaflet. Finally, this does not entail any additional costs for the patient or for the public authorities, since the price of parallel imported medicinal products may never exceed the price of the reference medicinal products already reimbursed in Belgium. I'm not a big fan of parallel imports myself. I agree that this may have strange effects on the availability of the medicines in question. However, we are trying with the FAGG to ensure that this is done as strictly as possible. Updates have recently been made to the legislation. However, we cannot go beyond European legislation. There is also case-law that we cannot ignore. I agree that we should watch this very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u105	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer, especially the legal information you provide. However, as you yourself say, transparency is not complete. Furthermore, if you do not comply with the legal requirement that you recalled, what happens? The European Union reiterates that this practice is favoured because it allows the price of the medicine to be reduced. You say the price can't be higher. We are still happy because the European Union says it should be inferior! In fact, he's not. The patient who thinks he has an attractive price is being left out. This issue still calls for reflection and action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u106	Madam Minister, I understand that you cannot intervene directly, but the fact that this phenomenon exists is astonishing to me. Before I read that, I honestly could not believe that this is possible in Europe. You say there are no additional costs for the government. However, it concerns generic medicines that are sold back at the price of original medicines. That seems to me to be an extra cost to the government or am I mistaken? As far as costs are concerned, we are also left with non-transparency of between 20% and 25%, which, in my view, also entails risks of additional costs for the public authorities. If European legislation is to determine this as such, and if there is nothing you can do about it at the moment, then I believe that this should be addressed at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u107	Madam Secretary, I agree with my colleague when she says that this is a bizarre phenomenon. If European law, with everything that exists on this subject, ensures that this can be done, then we must look into it properly and see whether we should all do something about it. It's about parallel imports. Those who are so inventive to base their businesses on this, of course do not do so in front of our beautiful eyes, but because it is their business with which they try to earn an income by looking for the loopholes in the net to take advantage of them. At least it's not philanthropy. An employee of the FPS Economy clearly says that there is a problem of transparency at that level and gives figures of 20% to 25% of costs, as my colleague has already pointed out. I can't take that. I can't put my finger on it. In my opinion, it is only possible that this will entail additional costs, if it is not already for the patient, or certainly for our health system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u108	As for me, Madam Minister, I would also like to stress one point in my reply. You have taken the option of saying that it is now up to the Minister of Economy to ensure that the price of these drugs is not higher than the price of generics. It is a measure that is being taken, which was clearly not so far. I remain convinced that this system lacks transparency in terms of patient information. How can people understand the course of drugs? It would be worth it if policies, and therefore States, were to mobilize around the question of the name of the drug and intellectual property. Conflicting court decisions are made. According to a first judgment, the devices allow the name of the original medicine to be taken over and sold on the parallel market, whereas according to another judgment, this cannot be done because it undermines the way in which the first firm can assume responsibility, the traceability of its medicine. There may be a need to clarify, amend and correct certain things, and I invite you to do so also at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u109	Question No 20250 by Mr Senesael will be dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs. The same applies to Question No 20259 by Mrs Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u110	Minister, I have recently been questioned by the director of an institute in Estaimpuis, which specializes in the management of patients with memory disorders and especially of patients with Korsakoff's syndrome. As you know, Korsakoff's syndrome refers to a set of neurological disorders that cause vitamin B1 deficiency. This syndrome mainly affects chronic alcoholics, who have a high vitamin B1 deficiency, but may also affect people with severe malnutrition, severe head trauma or brain tumors. Following the diagnosis, in addition to the treatment of taking vitamins B1, B2, B6 and B12 for one year - treatment not reimbursed - patients must follow an individualized path. This implies that, for each patient, specific care must be devised by the people who follow it up. Minister, can you tell us how many people are suffering from Korsakoff's syndrome currently in Belgium? What about the care of these people? As I said, patient follow-up requires an individualized approach. However, it appears that there is a serious lack of training adapted to the management of this pathology. Are doctors and medical personnel trained in the management of this condition? What do you intend to do to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u111	Mr Senesael, hospital data do not clearly determine the number of patients hospitalized for Korsakoff's syndrome, but identify patients with an amnestic disorder diagnosis in conditions classified elsewhere and alcohol-induced persistent amnestic disorders. At the level of diagnosis - primary and secondary - for hospitalisations in non-psychiatric beds, 3,300 patients in 2010, 3,400 in 2011, 3,600 in 2012, 3,700 in 2013 and 3,600 in 2014. The number is therefore increasing every year. The number of hospitalizations in psychiatric beds was 989 in 2010, followed by 910, 860 and 825 in 2014, allowing us to observe stabilization. People with Korsakoff's syndrome, like others with neurological disorders, should receive the best possible care. It is indeed a question of determining with them and their families the most suitable route of care. The role of the hospital is usually to wean the patient who is still alcoholic, to introduce a balanced diet, and to prescribe ad hoc treatment. Unfortunately, in most cases we find that brain damage is irreversible. Stabilizing is possible, but improving is difficult. The continuation of treatment varies from patient to patient and depending on the duration of the treatment before it is found. In this context, the role of the various functions of mental health care reform is crucial as it will allow the development of a tailored care path for the patient. Basic physician training is very important, in order to see signs of alcohol abuse beginning to cause brain sequelae. That is not my responsibility. But it is true that they are often people who pass under the radars and who are found to be confused when they are brought to the hospital following a fall. Often there is an underlying problem of alcohol abuse that has already caused damage in the brain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u112	Madam Minister, thank you for the figures provided and for all of your response to my questions and those of the director of the institution I spoke about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u113	Minister, I have already had the opportunity, like other members of my group, to ask you about the shortage of certain medicines or vaccines. Today, there are more and more problems with the availability of certain medicines, whether they are common or specific, from the medical departments of Brussels hospitals. Brussels is not the only one concerned. It seems that all Belgian hospitals are experiencing the same stock ruptures at the same time, due to a policy that is often deliberate on the part of the supplier at national level. Today, painkillers, antibiotics, cancer drugs or anaesthetics have not been found on the Belgian market for often long periods of time. Among the most important supply disruptions experienced in recent months in Brussels hospitals, we find: - anticancer medicines such as Zelboraf or Alkeran, which is used in haematology and for which there was no alternative for several weeks; - antiemetics, such as Litican, used in the treatment of side effects of chemotherapy, Primperan being an alternative but some patients do not support it; - opioids such as dipidolor for which a derogation is necessary for an import from Germany; - anaesthetics such as Ultiva, Fentanyl, Sufenta, Tracrium causing errors due to changes in dosage and anaesthetic practices. Some of these shortages seem - and this is what concerns us - to concern only our country but not the neighbouring countries. Moreover, it is interesting to note the price differences of certain medicines compared to some of our neighbours. A few examples cited in the media lead us to question the policy in this regard. Indeed, the comparison shows prices of medicines for prostate or cholesterol three to four times more expensive, some molecules antacid or neuroleptic on average thirteen to fourteen times more expensive in us. Madam Minister, the prices and conditions for the supply of medicines to Belgian pharmacies and hospitals therefore raise questions about your policy in this regard. These stock breaks with pharmaceutical companies can obviously put the health of some patients at risk. Do you confirm these recurring problems of drug stock failure in our territory? If so, what measures are you considering to stem this problem? How do you explain these shortages, especially in our country, when they do not exist in all our neighbouring countries? What levers do you use to address these shortages during your negotiations with firms? These shortages also lead, in some cases, to price increases on the part of competing suppliers. How do you position yourself against these price increases? Of course, the cost of a whole range of medicines has decreased, in particular as a result of measures already taken under the previous legislatures. Having said that, how do you explain that the prices of many medicines remain much higher in us than in our neighbouring countries? It seems obvious to me that you have an essential role to play in this context, specifically in the negotiations you are conducting with the pharmaceutical industry. How do you explain this situation and its consequences for patients, specifically for the most fragile of them? Test-Achats, Médecins du Monde, des mutualités et la Ligue des utilisateurs des services de santé have recently submitted a petition signed by nearly 43,000 people demanding reasonable pricing for innovative medicines in Belgium, such as those for the treatment of hepatitis C or breast cancer. What answers did you give them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u114	Frédéric, the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) receives about 100 notifications of temporary unavailability of drugs from pharmaceutical companies every month. All categories of medicinal products may be affected. In the vast majority of cases, these unavailabilitys do not pose a problem for public health. Please be aware that when a medicinal product is temporarily no longer available in Belgium and this medicinal product is indispensable for public health and there are no therapeutic alternatives available in Belgium, pharmacists may import an alternative registered in another country on the basis of a medical prescription and a declaration by the doctor that the patient cannot be treated with the medicinal products available on the Belgian market. A task force "unavailability of medicines" has been set up by AFMPS and INAMI to seek solutions to problems of unavailability of medicines. This group is composed of representatives of the various actors involved in this issue. This led in particular to the creation, on 1 January 2014, of a single notification point for the communication of data on the availability of medicinal products on the Belgian market. This working group has developed a decision tree that determines the actions to be taken in the event of unavailability in order to minimize the negative impact of unavailability on the patient. Thus, each notification of unavailability is examined to determine whether it is likely to pose a public health problem. This is the case if the drug is considered essential for public health without an alternative and the duration of the non-availability is long enough to cause a public health problem. In this case, one of the solutions may be, for example, the granting of a derogation to a pharmaceutical firm, on the advice of the Advisory Commission, so that the firm may temporarily import consignments of medicinal products authorised and available abroad and distribute them in Belgium in order to remedy the unavailability of the medicinal product. The working group is also considering a project to create a communication platform from which all relevant stakeholders in the sector could communicate notifications of unavailability of medicines. The implementation of this platform is scheduled for mid-2018. The working group meets regularly to look for other initiatives to find solutions to drug availability problems, as well as to take preventive measures to avoid these problems. In particular, adaptations to the legislation are envisaged. Unavailability of medicines in Belgium may have several causes. Some are due to manufacturing problems that may affect a particular market, such as a batch of drugs rejected for quality reasons, or affect several markets if the manufacture of the drug is to be temporarily stopped at the manufacturing site. Certain temporary unavailability may also be due to the quota or intra-Community distribution and export of Belgian medicinal products. These practices are not illegal. Both the quota and the intra-Community distribution and the exportation receive the full attention of the AFMPS and are also studied at European level. The working group I have already mentioned is also considering possible solutions to these problems. During this legislature, various measures were taken to reduce the prices of medicines. Upon arrival of a generic drug, the patent cliff is applied, representing a decrease of 54, 35 and/or 60% depending on the category of reimbursement of the drug. In the previous legislature, it took six years for the price to erode to reach a comparable level. Reference is often made to the low prices of medicines in neighbouring countries, particularly in the Netherlands. But this leads there to even more frequent stock ruptures with interruptions in the treatment of chronic diseases. In the case of innovative medicines, tools can be used to align costs to therapeutic value with the guarantee that there is no budget overrun. It is also possible to conclude an agreement with a firm at real costs significantly lower than the face price. In cases where there is a risk of budgetary slippage, the mechanism ensures that expenditure is met. These agreements are concluded by a working group consisting mainly of representatives of the INAMI Insurance Committee. Unavailability is therefore a challenge, but we must be aware that in our neighbouring countries problems are much more frequent. The Agency has already done a lot of work on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u115	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. You recognize that the problem exists and you quantify it. In addition, you highlight the very concrete procedures that are being implemented. This chain of procedures that is being implemented is a question to me. Indeed, when the shortage is found, if the only solution is to import, it will take some time before the imported drug arrives and can be made available. I therefore believe that the problem is not resolved and that further reflection is needed. You say that the cost is lower in the Netherlands, so the deficiencies are more frequent. In my view, the cost differential debate should be brought to the European Council of Health Ministers. Is it normal for the same medicine for the same patient who lives 20 minutes from the border to have such a cost differential? I think it would be useful to think in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u116	Madam President, Madam Secretary, you are responsible for the NMR programme. Your Flemish colleague, Mr Vandeurzen, is competent to grant their licences. However, NMR programming is limited. To date, therefore, the competent Flemish minister has not yet been able to grant an NMR licence to each hospital. As a result, the Flemish Government has been obliged to apply selection criteria to allocate the seven planned NMRs. This allocation was now annulled by two judgments of the Council of State of 29 June 2017. This destruction led me to ask my question and to ask whether it is not time to consider the NMR programme. Shouldn't this be evaluated? Mrs Muylle pointed out earlier that an evaluation was planned. So everyone is already convinced that in the current care landscape and hospital landscape, it is more than necessary for each hospital to have an NMR device. The current programming means that a very limited number of hospitals do not yet have access to them today. The inclusion in the programme that each hospital would have access to such a device would be an important contribution to the strengthening of basic quality care tailored to the needs of the patient. I do not have to convince you that this also has many advantages, such as less radiation pollution, fewer additional investigations, lower costs, no additional movements and no additional waiting times. The whole story is also crossed by the network story. Hospitals which do not have an NMR device run the risk of falling into a weak position during the negotiations because they are not considered a full partner during the negotiations. The result is that the hospitals concerned are completely undervalued, which often leads to unrest and uncertainty among staff and doctors. Madam Minister, that is why I am making a plea to include in the programme in the very short term that all hospitals could have an NMR device. You would therefore make an important contribution to basic care throughout the country. I have a number of questions on this. First of all, how many hospitals have an NMR device today? How many devices do the hospitals have at their disposal? Which hospitals do not yet have such a device? How many NMR devices do you still have to provide for your programming, so that each hospital would have an NMR device? In what period would each hospital have an NMR device on the basis of the current programming? Do you agree that an NMR device should be part of the basic equipment of each hospital? If so, are you prepared to review the programme following the Council of State's decisions on destruction, so that every hospital can have an NMR device in the very near future? If not, why not? How will the smaller hospitals be protected, to be considered a full partner throughout the network story? How will it be ensured that the coordination of medical supplies within the network is carried out in the most qualitative and efficient way? If each hospital is not allowed to have an NMR device, how do we resolve the additional movement, waiting times, etc.? How will this stand in the way of the quality of care? I look forward to your answer, because this is a very important matter for many hospitals that do not have an NMR device.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u117	Madam President, Mr Vercamer, 45 of the 54 general or university hospitals in Flanders have at least 1 NMR device. However, there are also more than one aircraft, because it is a total of 65 aircraft in Flanders. Of the 9 hospitals that do not have an NMR, 4 belong to an association with other hospitals. This is the case of the Holy Hartziekenuis in Mol, in association with the Saint Joseph's Hospital in Yellow, the Saint Joseph's Clinic in Bornem with the AZ Holy Family in Reet, the Saint Joseph's Clinic in Izegem, in association with the AZ Delta Roeselare-Menen and the Saint Andrew's Hospital in Tielt, the AZ Sint-Rembert in Torhout in association with the AZ West in Veurne. There are 5 Flemish hospitals that have no NMR and have no association with a hospital. It concerns Hospital Maas and Kempen in Maaseik, the Saint Vincent Hospital in Deinze, the AZ in Oudenaarde, the AZ in Lokeren and you will not be surprised by the Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital in Waregem. In Brussels, all hospitals have one or more NMR devices. Brussels has 19 appliances for 12 general and 3 university hospitals. In Wallonia, 29 of the 37 general or university hospitals have at least one NMR device. In Wallonia, 37 hospitals have a total number of 37 units, but this is not one unit per hospital. I also have the list of hospitals in association and 5 hospitals without NMR equipment, namely Jolimont, Haute Senne in Soignies, Reine Astrid in Malmédy, Eupen and Herstal. I can give you an overview of the number of approved aircraft on 12 September 2017. I have already said in previous answers to parliamentary questions that I follow in my policy the principles set out in the Protocol Agreement of 24 February 2014. The first disc of 12 additional devices was released in the summer of 2014. It took until spring 2016 before these aircraft were awarded. The Ministers responsible in the Communities shall be responsible for this allocation. That has happened in the meantime. In the meantime, the Department of Medical Evaluation and Control of the RIZIV is preparing a report to answer, among other things, the question of whether budget neutrality, as stipulated in the protocol agreement, was respected. It is only after this evaluation that a further extension of the programming process can be achieved. The original date of delivery of that report was indeed before the beginning of this summer, but the Medical Evaluation and Control department should have access to the data of the health insurance funds. Not all data were delivered in time or did not meet the desired quality requirements. That is where they have been delayed. The expected delivery date is now October. Meanwhile, I also asked the BELMIP, the Belgian Medical Imaging Platform, for advice on the necessary next NMR programming. That opinion will also have to take account of the above-mentioned report. In that report, the Medical Evaluation and Audit Service shall map an evaluation of data, including opening times, waiting times and patient flows for NMR. In order to ensure a good distribution, the calculation of the need for NMR capacity per part of the country is based on demographic data and not on individual hospitals. On the basis of these data, it is even possible that the granting of a second device to certain hospitals would prove to be an opportunity. In any event, the granting of recognition to hospitals is the competence of the Communities. As for your question about the link between hospital networking and programming of NMR devices, which can only be viewed in the future hospital landscape within the framework of the locoregional clinical networks, with sufficient NMR capacity available at the level of each network. I would like to point out that the budget for medical imaging is increasing year after year and is exceeding the budgetary estimates. Radiologists are then confronted with savings measures within the budget concerned. Supply management remains a powerful tool to keep the budget manageable. This was also the reason why radiologists supported the protocol agreement already cited in 2014. The protocol agreement provides for further steps in the extension of programming, but it does not allow for this extension to continue to increase the overall number of imaging studies, without any substitution of radiation-intensive CT studies by NMR studies. Originally, the plan was to add 12 NMRs to which the number of CT studies would go down. But what have we seen? BELMIP has found that, now that 12 have been installed, the number of CT tests does not go down. In fact, it's still rising. That's a weird story. The release of programming means the loss of a powerful steering tool for the federal government and cannot be justified in the current budgetary situation. You will inform about the impact of the destruction by the Council of State of planning permits for 7 new NMR devices in Flanders. The decision of the Flemish Community to award the NMR was annulled for formal reasons. The allocation was made on the basis of additional programming criteria adopted by the competent Flemish ministers, whereas they should have been taken by the Flemish Government in application of Article 4 of the Decree of 23 May 2003. There is therefore no direct link between this destruction and an increase in programming. Many agree that we need a new model of care organisation in the future. In this way, we can maintain quality, accessible and affordable health care. For the hospital sector, this involves clinical cooperation through networks. In this respect, we will optimise and rationalise the resources deployed, including for these heavy equipment. Individual hospitals shall cooperate within the framework of the networks in accordance with the complementary provision of care assignments. Complementarity also means that not every hospital offers everything. On the other hand, every hospital, including the smaller one, retains its identity and policy. Small hospitals can strengthen their position by specialising in general, basic hospital care and a locally accessible general hospital offer. The population and individual patients remain at the heart of this reform. A corresponding governance should ensure a quality medical offer in which care continuity is a priority for the patient. This implies, inter alia, the establishment at network level of a referral and return policy, which is operationalised by the hospital managers of individual hospitals. Finally, I expect much from the implementation of a system of decision-support for the prescribers. Part of the problem we face, for example, is the fact that the amount of ICT scans is not falling despite the fact that there are 12 additional NMRs in Flanders, due to the unjustified prescription of redundant imaging studies. We are currently examining from the administration which system of decision support is most suitable for a pilot project. Images of scanners aren't holiday snapshots. You should know that the radiation load of CTs is much higher. Too few studies are not good for health, but too many are not. The conclusion of this story is that there will be another programming. As the protocol states, we will have to deal with this budget-neutrally. This means that measures will have to be introduced. One cannot allow another x number of CT scans in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels back on the ground, without a conversion of the number of CT studies into NMR studies, simply because one has the certainty that the radiation load will go down for the patients. In fact, too many double investigations are prescribed; that is the reason. They're asking for a scan, another scan, and then an NMR. That's wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u118	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I follow your reasoning, but I believe that the new programming can also be subject to a criterion which must in any case lead to a substitution. It is also possible to take measures from the RIZIV on reimbursement. We can regulate this, I am sure. My point is that five hospitals throughout Flanders do not have such equipment, which is actually part of the basic equipment of the hospitals. If an evaluation is to be carried out in October, my question is that this is a basic instrument and that it may be regulated in order to impose compulsory substitution when such an NMR device is provided. I call for the advice for the next programme to include at least the 5 hospitals that do not yet have them, to provide for the NMRs and to have them allocated by the Flemish Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic734x.u119	Question No 20260 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée is postponed.
