ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 15985 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen's 18591 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u2	Minister, a few months ago a local militant of Les Forces démocratiques unifiées (FDU) was abducted and recently he was found inanimate. The FDU is a non-recognised opposition party in Rwanda, of which the party leader has received the European Sakharov Prize for Free Expression. The local militant who was kidnapped and killed was currently active around the planned agricultural reforms in Rwanda. The FDU is convinced that the death of their militant was a political assassination, intended to silence and intimidate criticism of the Rwandan rural reform policy. Research points to a clear authoritarian tendency in the elaboration and implementation of rural social policies and agricultural reforms in Rwanda. I do not think it is a far-fetched assumption that authoritarian politics and the fact that the murdered militant was working on agricultural reform in Rwanda can be linked. Mr Minister, a few months ago you replied to my written question on the cooperation of Belgian development actors with local authorities in Rwanda. You described the democratic process in Rwanda at local level as a controlled but free process. You have also defended our cooperation with local authorities, including support for further dialogue and interaction between the different levels of government. Local civil society organisations would have the opportunity to share their views freely and thus adjust policies at local level where necessary. As a result of the worrying developments, I have a number of questions for you. Can you give me more information on the way in which the pilot project deals with local civil society in the decentralisation programme that we support? Can you explain to me how it is guaranteed that organisations and individuals involved in the pilot project can speak freely, given the latest event? Will you urge the Rwandan authorities to carry out a thorough investigation into the circumstances of the militant's death?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u3	Mrs Pehlivan, we must distinguish between two projects currently being carried out in Rwanda. On the one hand, there is the project Rwanda Decentralisation Support Programme of the Belgian government cooperation, which is carried out by the BTC and, among other things, provides for a partnership with the Rwandan Local Administrative Entities Development Agency. That is an executive agency of the Ministry of Local Government. On the other hand, there is the collaboration of Belgian development actors with local authorities in Rwanda in a pilot project of the Rwandan Local Administrative Entities Development Agency. This is an initiative to involve local civil society in a public programme aimed at financial support for vulnerable families. So it's about a so-called social-safety net program. It can be assumed that civil society organisations concerned can speak freely. Indeed, these organisations were asked to collect data on the impact of the public programme, assuming that civil society organisations have access to other information and data from government structures. This approach is often referred to in Rwanda as the evidence-based approach. The Belgian Embassy in Kigali and my administration are therefore aware of the pilot project of the Local Administrative Entities Development Agency with civil society, but are not involved. In itself, the initiative is a precedent in Rwanda and interesting to follow. However, the results of the exercise are not yet known. The Belgian Embassy in Kigali, together with the other EU ambassadors and the EU delegation, referred the death of Mr Habarugira to the relevant Rwandan authorities. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the issue of human rights and human rights violations is also being discussed with the Rwandan authorities, including in the context of the political debate that took place on 30 May in Kigali following the presentation of the new EU human rights strategy. That debate showed that the Rwandan government is willing to take criticism if it is based on facts. However, your specific question about pressing the Rwandan authorities for an in-depth investigation into the circumstances of the death of a local militant of the Démocratic Forces Unifiées falls within the competence of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u4	Minister, I will then put that question to Minister Reynders. It may be your colleague's responsibility, but we cannot just stand by and watch. You have not yet known its results through the projects you support and it would certainly be interesting to be able to discuss the results in committee, isn't it a political impact? So you can appeal to the authorities for their responsibility in relation to human rights. I would like to see this happening in the context of cooperation. I understand your position on cooperation. Compared to the situation in Congo and Burundi, the situation in Rwanda is somewhat more stable. This does not mean that we should weaken our attention to the Rwandan regime, especially because civil society organisations have been critical of the murder of that activist. It also shows that the regime and local government staff are willing to go far to implement the government line. We must be attentive to that. We should be as fundamental in our relationship with Rwanda as in our relationship with Burundi and Congo. We owe this to the Belgian citizens with Rwandan roots. They are concerned about the situation in the country. After the murder, that concern became even greater. The diaspora is very concerned about certain arrests. I hope and trust that, from your position as Minister, you will continue to raise human rights in view of our investments and in view of our cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u5	Madam President, Minister, two years after the beginning of the crisis, the political, economic and security situation in Burundi is simmering. At the political level, the President seems to have the will to change the Constitution in order to break the lock in the limitation of mandates. Political space is gradually shrinking. Opposition parties are muzzled. For example, FNL members have disappeared, while others have been found dead. The facilitator, who had the task of bringing all parties back to the table, has not yet succeeded. Armed militias spread terror among the population. Military training takes place in the middle of the day for this purpose. Imbonerakure members go so far as to recruit members in schools. The development of these militias is a matter of concern and raises the risk that they will eventually become uncontrollable. We also learned that rapes were systematically perpetrated as a weapon of war. As far as civil society is concerned, on-site NGOs are routinely monitored, with any defection or criticism being repressed by the regime. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Do the European Union and Belgium still fund projects that benefit, by or large, from the scheme? If so, what are they? What follow-up is there or will it be given? Is there any reflection on how best to support Burundian civil society in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u6	Dear colleague, the 2015 elections in Burundi generated a political and security crisis that resulted in a systematic violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the contraction of public affairs and the reduction of economic activities. The decline in government revenues from economic operators and donors has meant that the functioning of the administration, the provision of basic services, the maintenance and operation of infrastructure and equipment have a direct impact on the deterioration of the living conditions of the population. In the face of the Burundian crisis, the Council of the European Union and Belgium, pursuant to Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, suspended direct support, including budgetary support to the Government and State institutions. There is therefore no longer direct funding from the European Union and Belgium to the central Burundian structures and institutions. However, in order to mitigate the adverse effects on the population, activities directly benefiting the population have been maintained. Burundian technical actors in ministries can be involved, without co-decision on this point. It is only an exchange of information. In addition, State structures close to the population, such as health centres, schools, agricultural structures, etc., continue to receive some support, including financial support, because of the humanitarian nature of the support and the main activities they implement to ensure a minimum quality of such support for the benefit of the population. This corresponds, in any event, to the measures I took in 2015. But there is ongoing reflection on how to support Burundian civil society. In this regard, the context remains very difficult, in particular as a result of the recent measures taken by the authorities concerning the non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Moreover, it is not currently possible for Belgian Cooperation to directly support local actors, regardless of the country. Nevertheless, beyond the five-year programmes of non-governmental actors, which I recently approved for Burundi for an amount of EUR 36 million, for the period 2017-2021, Belgium is considering support through United Nations or independent actors to support civil society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u8	Minister, two months ago I asked for more details about your plan to fight sleeping sickness in our partner country DRC in cooperation with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. In my view, the answer you gave to my questions was insufficient. On the contrary, your answers raised new questions. That is why I am putting the current oral question. The questions I had asked dealt with the three main questions in your ambitious plan. How will you deal with possibly deteriorating diplomatic relations between Belgium and the Congolese authorities? How is the insecurity of the aid workers taken into account in their capacity as local employees? Finally, why is the project only planned for up to eight years, while the Institute of Tropical Medicine (ITG) considers a period of 25 years realistic in order to eradicate sleeping sickness with certainty? In your answer to my first question, I think you do not recognise to a small extent the fact that the relationship between the Congo and Belgium has soured. Especially on the basis of your answer, you do not have an elaborate worst case scenario. Of course, the research going on outside Congo will not suffer from difficult relationships. The fact that local unrest makes intervention more difficult is obvious. However, I did not ask that question. In your second answer, you state that the operational strategy will take into account insecurity and that you will be flexible to make adjustments in view of local realities. Minister, you are giving a strange answer. Haven't our interventions always been adapted to local realities? Isn't that also a point raised in the report with the Special Evaluator, which was recently discussed in committee? This report stated that the Belgian programme is under-involved and that questions can be asked as to the extent to which our interventions have been adapted to the local context. Finally, I also asked about the long-term vision of your ambitious plan and the dissonance with what the Institute of Tropical Medicine recommends, namely a period of 25 years compared to the eight-year period you are proposing. You indicated in your reply that it looked at how the programme could be integrated into current health system support programmes and how the World Health Organisation could possibly be a partner. Mr Minister, I refer again to the Special Evaluator's report, which explicitly stated that the Belgian interventions do not have a realistic closure programme and that this is a serious obstacle to a sustainable impact. I therefore have a number of additional new questions. How will you take into account a possible deterioration in diplomatic relations between Belgium and Congo? In what way can this hinder implementation on the ground? How does adapting to local reality and flexibility differ, which you put forward in this particular plan, with adapting to the local reality of our other interventions? How is the Special Evaluator's comments and recommendations taken into account? Will an exit strategy, a transition or a closure programme be developed at the start of this commitment, unlike other current programmes? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u9	A possible deterioration of the diplomatic relations between Belgium and Congo cannot be ruled out and this would indeed have an impact on the cooperation projects carried out in this country. Other donors from the European Union, the United States and Canada are also critical of the current political evolution in the DRC. Belgium has repeatedly called on all parties involved in the conflict to be cautious and not to use force. We have also pointed out the individual responsibility of those involved in the conflict. The fight against sleeping sickness is, above all, a humanitarian initiative in favour of the Congolese people who are the main victims of the current situation of violence and underdevelopment. Internationally, Belgium is recognised as a pioneer in the fight against sleeping sickness by the world-renowned scientific expertise of the Institute of Tropical Medicine and the important efforts made by Belgian Development Cooperation in Congo, the main fireplace of sleeping sickness. With all the interventions in the DRC, as for the other partner countries, efforts are being made to respond to local realities. In order to make the right choices in policy-making and implementation, it is necessary to have a clear view of what commitment is effective or not. Development and change do not take place linearly or through a tightly framed model. It is therefore important to take due account of complexity in the development and planning of interventions and in monitoring and evaluation. Our attention should focus on the supposed coherence between the political social situation in a country or region and on expected processes of change in that context. In the fight against sleeping sickness, the control of tsetse flies can be organised more efficiently through small targets that attract and destroy flies. The conversion of mobile shifts into smaller, more flexible units increases the efficiency and sustainability of the population survey. Population detection is more efficient through the electronic recording of data. In a combination of this digitized data with satellite data on the natural environment, it is possible to find out much more precisely the sources of contamination. Within various interventions of Belgian Development Cooperation, the intended results are mapped out and a risk analysis is carried out. The DRC is a fragile state, with a quasi-absence of government in some parts of the country, which does not simplify the implementation of the programmes. As I have already replied to your written question of 11 May 2017, there are elements in the current programme to integrate the fight against sleeping sickness into the Congolese health system and strengthen this system. After nine years, an evaluation will be carried out on how the sustainability of the support has strengthened the robustness of the Congolese health system and appropriate measures can be taken if necessary. Moreover, there is no dissonance between what the ITM says and the objective of the intervention, in which the ITM was very closely involved. Now I need to get a little technical. The objective of the programme that launches the Belgian development policy, in collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the World Health Organisation, the ITM and BTC, is to stop the transfer of sleeping sickness completely in 90% of the areas where the sleeping disease is currently present by 2025. Elimination is meant to stop the transmission. The objective is to do that by 2025. If there is eradication, then the disease of the globe is intended to disappear. We will have that objective by 2030. Since sleeping sickness can only be transmitted from an infected person to another person, we focus on the transmission of the disease. If we succeed, we can use the word elimination. It is an ambitious but realistic objective, says Professor Marleen Boelaert, probably the world's largest sleeping sickness specialist, attached to the ITM. We will then have to monitor for many years to prevent the disease from re-emerging. If this does not happen during a sufficiently long period, during which the ITM talks about 25 years, then we can consider the disease to be eradicated. We are now at the beginning of this commitment, which will therefore run in nine years' time and perhaps even longer if not everything goes as it should. We are not yet working on an exit strategy for nine years from now. It is now mainly the intention to start everything properly. Yesterday we had a meeting with the ITM, with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and BTC.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope for the initiative you have taken, with elimination by 2025 and complete eradication by 2030. That's a positive view. Is it possible to obtain interim information on the course of events? I don't know what the possibilities are, but there might be a chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u11	Measurements are carried out and an evaluation is carried out every three years. On the basis of questions you ask, I am always prepared to explain. However, we do not know whether we will be in our current positions in three years' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u12	My fellow Members who are interested in this issue can be informed by the committee's report that this can be followed up. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u13	Question No 19041 by Mr Luykx will be converted into a written question at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u14	Mr Minister, Mrs Jadin, not present, agrees that I am asking the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u15	Minister, the European Development Days took place at the beginning of June. The programme included a meeting between the development cooperation sector and the private sector to identify possible cooperation. The main focus was on possible investment as a potential to support development in the South. This is necessary because it has been clear for some time now that only the ODA will not be enough to raise the funds needed to achieve the SDGs. Estimates show that between EUR 3 000 and EUR 4 000 billion will be needed. The European joint ODA has some 75.5 billion. So that's not gonna get us there. Hence my questions. What were the results of the talks? What specific results have been achieved in relation to the European External Investment Plan? Are the indicators of the Federal Planning Office sufficient to identify the SDG-related foreign expenditure of government and private? How will your SDG-related activities work with the private sector? How do you see this cooperation evaluated in the future? What is the place of the midfielder in that story? What specific initiatives have you yourself taken to promote greater cooperation with European colleagues in general and with the private sector in particular, especially with regard to the SDGs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u16	The answer was prepared in Dutch and in French because there was also a question from Mrs Jadin. The financing needs to achieve the sustainable development goals are enormous and official development assistance is only a small part of the financing opportunities. Thus, mobilizing domestic resources and mobilizing the private sector at the national and international levels to raise development funds is crucial by 2030. In this context, the EU's external investment plan is an important tool to foster closer private sector participation in our efforts to help our partner countries in Africa achieve the sustainable development goals by 2030. The European External Investment Plan should be operational for the EU-Africa summit to be held in November 2017 in Abidjan. The plan is expected to consist of three pillars: mobilising investment, strengthening technical assistance and improving the business climate. The investment plan thus responds to the challenges and risks faced by companies in Africa, namely, the fragility of certain political contexts, the instability of the investment climate, the multiple energy challenges, the inadequacies or weaknesses in infrastructure and the lack or insufficient access to adequate financing. The European External Investment Plan will be financed from the new Guarantee Fund as well as the existing blending of grants and loans. The European Commission relies on a multiplier effect and possible matching by the Member States to reach the amount publicly announced of EUR 44 billion. The central theme of the European Development Days on 7 and 8 June 2017 was Investing in development, with particular attention to attracting the private sector. This is entirely in line with Belgian priorities for international development. The main focus of interventions was on greater commitment by the private sector and on Digital for development. I had bilateral talks with the CEO of Trade Mart East Africa and with the Chairman of the Coca Cola Africa Foundation, and also had a meeting with the new Director-General of the World Health Organization, Dr. Tedros. On the eve of the European Development Days, the Commission developed the outreach event Voices for Development in cooperation with the DGD, the UN Representation in Brussels and the Palace. I also organized a CEO power breakfast together with CEO of Unilever and SDG lawyer Paul Polman. The target audience was a group of some 20 CEOs that have united around the Belgian SDG charter. The Belgian SDG charter is a joint commitment of the private sector, civil society and the public sector. That is why 11.11.11-CEO Bogdan Vanden Berghe and DGD chairman Bruno van der Pluijm also participated in this exchange of views. This meeting was an excellent opportunity not only to take stock of our Belgian initiative with a number of companies, but also to encourage the participating CEOs to show greater ambition for the SDGs and to make the necessary people and resources available. Digital for development was addressed in the closing speech I gave during the high-level debate Digitisation means streaming of digital technologies in EU development aid, which was organised by the Commission. I also moderated the debate Bridging the digital divide in Africa, and I participated in the high-level debate Making It happen through jobs and entrepreneurship. During these speeches and debates, I discussed, among other things, the extent to which digitisation offers real prospects for job creation. I also mentioned my recent BeCentral initiative, a hub in Brussels-Central where digital skills can be learned and the opening of which will be planned in autumn 2017. I also quoted the 18 million euros invested by the federal government in the Digital Skills Fund, which also mobilises private partners. With regard to the European External Investment Plan, it is too early to assess the results. This plan was presented by the European Commission in September 2016. To date, negotiations have been limited to the regulation of the instrument. At Council level, Member States reached an agreement at the end of June. The European Parliament gave an opinion on this subject on 6 July. Implementation of this ambitious plan for Africa and Europe with the promotion of investment, the investment climate and technical assistance as pillars will only start in the second half of the year. More information on this plan will be available after the EU-Africa Summit in late November. The national SDG indicators of the Federal Planning Office are a work in progress. At present, 107 indicators are available, applicable to Belgium, compared to the 232 global SDG indicators, the majority of which can be considered to apply to Belgium. Belgian statisticians further develop these national SDG indicators, in cooperation with the statistical services of the United Nations and the European Union and in dialogue with the private sector and civil society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As you yourself say, SDGs are so broad that cooperation between public authorities, the private sector and civil society is indeed necessary. The government alone can't stand that. Everyone needs to be involved. That is why the indicators of the Federal Planning Office are important in order to find out what has already happened and where we may have to lean behind and step up. It is mainly the responsibility of the public authorities to keep up with this, then to work with the help of all other actors. That is why I welcome the European initiative to bring the various actors together in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u18	Minister, according to the World Food Programme (WFP), far from the media, almost in international indifference, nearly two million Nigerians are threatened by famine in areas where the Islamist sect Boko Haram has been raging for more than ten years. Since this group does not operate in the south, it is difficult for people in the southern part of the country to take full measure of the tragedy. In the north, the Islamist sect has killed more than 20,000 people in the past decade. An ethnic and religious chiism separates the north and the south. Lagos, located in the south, and more Christian and Westernist, closes his eyes to the drama that takes place in the north, inspired by Islam. Minister, can you confirm this information? I recall that Nigeria is by far the most populous state in all of Africa. It is also announced that it will soon have three hundred million inhabitants. Is there an international aid plan to combat this famine in northern Nigeria? If so, does Belgium contribute to this? Do you have any contact with your European counterparts about this famine? Do you know of any help from the Organization of African Unity (OAU), even if we know that it is already having a hard time working?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u19	I do not think we can talk about international indifference, but it is true that the Nigerian authorities are having great difficulty in managing access to the most affected areas. There are reports of diversion of international aid to the people of the north by various corruption networks. This is obviously unacceptable. According to OCHA, famine threatens nearly twenty million people in Somalia, South Sudan, Nigeria and Yemen. It is estimated that in Nigeria, forty-four thousand people are in starvation. The United Nations called on the international community to raise $4.4 billion, including $734.1 million for that country, in order to avoid the worsening of this crisis. At the Oslo Humanitarian Conference on 24 February, the international community committed $205.6 million. The needs are so acute that the 2017 Humanitarian Response Plan for Nigeria is funded by 28.6 per cent. In view of the exceptional humanitarian situation, in March 2017, I announced the decision to double the donations made to the joint appeal launched by consortium 12-12, bringing together several large Belgian NGOs for the victims of the famine in these four countries. As the "Famine 12-12" action has raised €9.52 million in recent months, the federal government has increased the amount by €19.04 million. NGO files will be sent to the administration by the end of the month. EUR 15 million will also be allocated to four UN humanitarian organisations to respond to crises in these four countries. The amount includes a contribution of €3.5 million to the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the World Food Programme (WFP) and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) for their operations in Nigeria. Funding files are currently being processed. I also agreed in principle to the financing of the Humanitarian Fund for Nigeria managed by the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), amounting to €4 million for the period 2017-2018. This flexible fund allows donors to pool their contributions in order to provide a stronger collective response to the crisis. All these contributions to Nigeria are in addition to the full funding of humanitarian partners, amounting to €50 million in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer. In any case, what satisfies me is that there is really an awareness of this situation by our authorities, and also a globalisation in relation to neighbouring countries which have little or no experience of the same kind of famine. Of course, the famine and the development of Islamism are unfortunately often linked. Let us not forget that this also generates a push towards the north, towards Libya, and then towards the tragedies that are currently taking place in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u21	Madam President, a small mistake has been made in the text of my question. Indeed, the G20 did not take place in June! Minister, Africa was at the heart of the G20 organised at Angela Merkel's initiative in Berlin in July. The aim of this initiative should be, inter alia, to help African leaders attract private investors. This aid is not philanthropic in the head of the richest countries. By helping the African economy, the G20 countries hope to halt migratory flows from a continent where demography is exploding. As I have already explained in referring to Nigeria, the population will double by 2050, in just thirty-three years. The situation is above all worrying in the countries of the Sahel, this barren and barren desert band formed by Mauritania, Senegal, Mali, Niger, Chad, Sudan, Eritrea, and also in northern Nigeria, where Islamist sects, such as Boko Haram, are raging. Other sub-Saharan countries are also affected; I am thinking of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Minister, Belgium alone is powerless because the data are complex. At the level of the European Union, member of the G20, what are the practical, effective and already implemented solutions on the ground to help the economic development of this continent? As far as our country is concerned, what actions have already been taken to that end? In the area of surnatality, is there a birth control programme, as seen in Belgium in the same way as a family planning programme? If not, could Belgium not be at the origin of such an initiative which would be followed by Europe? Minister, since the G20 has now taken place, let me tell you how frustrating the results, particularly in terms of climate, are. As far as Africa's development is concerned, I understand that African leaders have expressed their complete dissatisfaction with the results of this G20. On the other hand, in order to ensure that the refugee problem, Europe's proposals unfortunately could not be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u22	Madam President, my colleague, the European Union and its 28 Member States are the main foreign investor in Africa, its main trading partner, its main source of money transfer, its leading partner in development and humanitarian aid and a key security provider. Belgium participates in the economic development of the African continent both through programmes that help to improve the business climate and through actions that more specifically seek to generate inclusive and sustainable economic growth, in particular by supporting micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises. The aim is to make people more self-reliant, to stimulate the local private sector and, in general, the country's overall development. As I have already said and repeated in this committee, I am convinced of the fundamental role of the private sector. I strongly encouraged initiatives to increase the mobilization of private financial resources, such as the opening up of BIO to private capital, the implementation of a 2030 Agenda Charter and multi-stakeholder projects. With regard to the demographic explosion in Africa, the figures are indeed known. Africa's population will double to 2.5 billion men and women by 2030, in a climate change context. For this reason, sexual and reproductive rights, family planning is one of the four priorities of my policy. To allow every woman to decide c when she wants to have children and how many constitutes a fundamental right that must be implemented. The ability to choose a number of children and to space births also has positive implications for the family and community as a whole. In the partner countries, Belgium aims to systematically activate dialogue with its partner on this subject. Strengthening access to family planning and in particular preventing unwanted pregnancies or reducing maternal mortality are among the basic objectives of Belgian cooperation. In this sense and as part of a She decides initiative, I decided to finance a €1.5 million delegated cooperation programme in Benin. The United Nations Population Fund is the organization that will implement this programme, which targets ten thousand young women. In the new cooperation partner countries Burkina Faso and Guinea, programmes on sexual and reproductive health and rights were also launched with the United Nations Population Fund in 2016. The budgets are EUR 5 million for Guinea and EUR 3.4 million for Burkina Faso. Other SSR programmes will continue as in Senegal. Finally, the contribution to the general resources of multilateral partners, such as the United Nations Population Fund or UNIFEM, enables these bodies to implement their action plans and develop women's empowerment, particularly in family planning around the world. This Belgian cooperation ensures predictable funding of four years for the general resources of these bodies, i.e. the core funding. The United Nations Population Fund has thus seen a substantial increase in our contribution to general resources: nine million euros per year instead of the seven originally planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u23	Minister, thank you. I realize that there is also a good awareness of this issue on your part and on the part of the government. The birth rate reaches an average of 5.33 children per woman, which is well above our rate - 1.6 or even 1.7 - and this is extremely problematic. The problem is that it goes through education, because traditions make sure that... And yet, in Africa, women work more than men; despite everything, they still have a lot of children. Often, when women do not work, they stay at home and have children. But in Africa, not only do they work but they have children. That's a big problem. In order to achieve the demographic transition, economic development is needed, and unfortunately, it is in this respect that the disaster is hurting. This can be seen: in African States where development and standard of living are more important, the number of children is decreasing. This is for example the case of South Africa, where the situation is changing well. Nevertheless, there is still work! I also appreciate hearing your answers from this point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u24	Minister, I have read with great attention the article in MO Magazine in which you were interviewed about your visit to the region in Uganda where a million South Sudanese are now being received. As you rightly say in the interview, this is not a problem that comes out of the blue and various factors play a role: the political elite in Sudan, governments in neighbouring countries, the arms industry and also the apathy of the international community. In my group's view, regional political solutions to regional political problems are the most sustainable and realistic opportunity for peace, and that is why I think it is right that you deplored the absence of the African Union. In addition to the regional approach to the problems, you also stressed how there is a great potential for economic development for companies specialising in goods and services needed for the reception of refugees, an economic potential that is many times greater than the arms industry. This seems to me to be a good idea and I am looking forward to a strategy on this issue. We must be careful not to create an unintended, perverse situation where companies are almost looking forward to the next crisis to deliver their products. For example, the arms industry and the companies in that vision could still be the best friends. What also struck me, Minister, is how much you replied from your heart during the interview. I felt the indignation and frustration, not least in relation to your fellow European ministers. If I may quote you for a moment: I regret to say that there is no one in Europe, particularly in European politics, who has the courage to conduct or propose this kind of policy. That is brave and I am glad that you have made your vision clear and clear. You also said that you did not agree with the idea that development cooperation could be some kind of bargaining tool in the fight against migration. I fully support you in this, but at the same time, in your government, Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration Francken has already dropped several times that development cooperation should focus on countries from which many migrants come. How do you see the European Union and, in particular, European development policy to strengthen regional actors in Africa? How could a more Ugandan approach to refugees applied in Europe look to you? Can you explain more about the working relationship between yourself as Minister of Development Cooperation and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Mr Francken, on your vision of migration and development cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u25	(...) partner of regional actors in Africa. Both the Regional Economic Commissions, the so-called RECs, such as the East African Community, the Southern Africa Development Community, the Economic Community of West African States and, of course, the African Union, can all count on generous support from the EU and European development policy. The EU will continue to support these regional players in the coming years. In doing so, we need to evolve from a model of cooperation in which regional organisations that have achieved a greater degree of professionalism and integration can count on additional support. For those regions, such as northern Africa, where regional integration is lacking, we need more bilateral programmes or we need to focus on the role of the continental African Union. Unfortunately, despite our support, we often find that regional organisations are unable to promote political solutions in their own backyard. This often has to do with internal divisions and not with the lack of international support. At the moment, we can only continue to exert pressure and continue to promote the dialogue, as I have done recently in South Sudan and Uganda. Obviously, the Ugandan model cannot simply be copied in a European context. The refugees arriving in northern Uganda from South Sudan are often of the same etnie, speak the same language and have the same habits. This facilitates the reception in their own region. Every refugee arriving in Uganda will be given the necessary resources to meet his basic needs. Refugees recognised in Europe have the same social security as their own nationals. That is right and in line with our obligations, although it does of course entail a large cost per refugee. Having said that, I think that we in Europe should dare to ask ourselves why the reception of one million Syrian refugees to a total population of 500 million Europeans is so difficult. I believe that Europe could have been more generous in the reception of Syrian refugees. In our own country, however, we must not blush for the effort in the number of refugees being received. I find the fact that some Eastern European governments refuse to take part in the reception of refugees particularly regrettable. The fact that two years after the so-called asylum crisis, refugees are still being received in Italy and Greece in humane conditions is unacceptable. Despite the efforts to share the burden on Europe, Europe is unfortunately often hitting the limits of its own powers. It remains the sovereign duty of countries such as Greece and Italy to organise adequate and correct reception of asylum seekers themselves. I have an excellent relationship with my colleague Francken. We do not always agree on every subject, but we both support the policy pursued by this government. Like my colleague Francken, for example, I think that economic happiness seekers arriving irregularly in Belgium are not entitled to stay. We also agree that processed asylum seekers and illegal aliens should leave our country. Belgian development policy subscribes to Belgian foreign policy as mentioned in the coalition agreement. That is not to say, as I pointed out in the interview with MO Magazine, that Belgian development cooperation is fully and exclusively engaged in European and Belgian migration policy. Addressing the root causes of irregular migration is an important aspect of development policy. But there are also many other issues that shape my policy: the 2030 Agenda, climate change, the fight against poverty in the least developed countries and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I fully agree with you, but with regard to your relationship with your colleague, I do have my reservations, but well. Minister, as far as the European level is concerned, we in Belgium will not solve the problem, you spoke of a million Syrian refugees on a population of 500 million and said that we can do much more, not just Western Europe but all of Europe. I hope you will continue to raise this at European level. Everyone in Europe must take responsibility. I have another question on the agenda with Mr Van Hoof about the European Trust Fund. This has a link with how these funds are spent there. So I am waiting for the answer to that question, because one cannot be disconnected from the other. Ultimately, these are resources that go to development cooperation as well as migrants and asylum seekers. It is about how we can efficiently use these resources for the benefit of those people. I'll ask my question about that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u27	Mrs Capoen has asked for her question. to convert 19689 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u28	Madam President, Minister, our country scores well at the International Transparency Index and is even the strongest climber in 2016. It is a good thing that the transparency of Belgian development cooperation is increasing and that you consider this important. However, there is still a lot of work to be done. We are among the midgets. The federal budget for development cooperation often makes it difficult for both a parliamentary and an outsider to look through the figures and make a clear assessment of what is actually being financed. Moreover, the budget is subject to external commissions such as migration, revenues from European emissions trading, but also the increase in the budget through possible indexation. In the 2015 peer review, the OECD-DAC also states that Belgium should ensure that the strategy and criteria used for the savings between 2017 and 2019 should be actively communicated with the partners. I come to my questions. Can you explain in full transparency where, in addition to increases, savings have been made within the Department of Development Cooperation since your arrival? What basic allocations and posts were underused? What external commissions/increases in the budget for development cooperation have taken place? What does this look like for years to come?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u29	Mr Minister, I have spoken on many occasions, like the Court of Auditors' comments, to denounce a freeze on cooperation's budgetary resources, which in fact often amounts to a drastic reduction in the budget. Minister, will there be new savings or spending freezes on budgets in 2017? If so, how much? What are your goals for 2018? What will be the distribution of these economies among the various actors of the Cooperation? What will be the impact on non-governmental cooperation actors (NGOs)? Where appropriate, when will these savings be communicated to stakeholders so that they can adapt their programmes and strategies accordingly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u30	At the beginning of the legislative term, a saving was agreed for Development Cooperation, ranging from EUR 150 million in 2015 to EUR 270 million in 2019. On top of that, an annual saving of 25 million euros was agreed in the government when the 2017 budget was drawn up. Budgets are not static, but dynamic. Budgets are evolving under the influence of external factors. For example, a cumulative indexation is applied annually to the basic amount. The indexing amount for 2016 was 15 million euros, this year 33 million euros. In 2016, there was an interdepartmental migration commission of EUR 57.6 million for the Turkey Trust Fund and terrorism, and of EUR 3 million for the Valetta Trust Fund. Climate finance is also an external factor. The federal government has decided that 25 million from the development budget will be spent annually on international climate finance in developing countries. Indeed, in 2016, that amount of my budget was released for additional climate finance. From this year on, my budget should in principle have the revenues of the Emission Trading System. In 2017, the budget entered €23.6 million in ETS revenue. However, it is not certain whether the Climate Burden Sharing between the federal government and the governments of the three regions will be ratified in good time in all the parliaments concerned, before the end of the year. In that case, I will not be able to obtain the ETS revenues this year. As I said, a budget is not a static one. Finally, the government also decides annually on a number of administrative obstacles or under-utilisations with the aim of keeping the budget under control every year. All departments are subject to such administrative blockades, including the Directorate-General for Development and Humanitarian Aid. In 2015, it amounted to 187.5 million euros. In 2016 at 150 million, and this year at 120 million. The underutilisation is not random, but programme by programme and base allocation by base allocation is weighed against the rate of expenditure, the priorities of Belgian development policy and outstanding commitments. We also take into account the natural underuse, which is there every year, partly because we work in fragile contexts. If this is not enough to achieve the agreed administrative blocking, additional measures will be taken. It would lead me too far to detail this by base allocation since 2014. This year, the combination of savings and under-use has led, inter alia, to the following decisions. The operational costs of the BTC fall from 180 to 150 million, the voluntary contribution to multilateral projects is reduced by 20 million euros and subsidies to non-governmental and institutional actors fall by 17 million euros. I would like to point out that, for the period 2017-2021, grants of EUR 1.15 billion were committed for those actors. I decided to increase the humanitarian aid budget from EUR 102 million in 2014 to EUR 170 million now. Given the major humanitarian crises in the world, there is no saving on the humanitarian budget and no underutilisation. The government is in full shape for the 2018 budget. It is not possible to say much about this at the moment. As I have said many times in committee, we cannot look at the budget alone. We also need to look at the quality. We should not only look at the input, but also at the output. We must try to achieve more with the resources available. We need to review our interventions and activities critically and try to do better in terms of pertinence, effectiveness, sustainability and efficiency. In addition, we must create budgetary room for new initiatives. Last year, for example, I did so for She Decides, the theme of sexual and reproductive rights, and about the elimination of sleeping sickness. The decisions taken by the government on budget preparation and underutilisation are taken collectively and jointly by the four governmental parties. I hear and read statements from MEPs from time to time, including the majority, about the development budget and the need to grow again to 0,7%. I can only observe that I have never heard of this from the representatives of the government parties, when they sit around the budgetary table, rather the opposite. At the beginning of the year, the government decided on certain administrative blockages or under-utilizations as part of its budgetary objectives. These blockages are imposed on all departments, including Cooperation. There is no decision at this stage for 2018. Everything will depend on the budgetary situation. The distribution of under-use is not arbitrary. It is the result of an analysis of all the programmes, the state of expenditure, the commitments made and the priorities of development policy. Non-governmental cooperation actors were affected to the tune of EUR 17 million. The amount was determined after consultation with the relevant actors, which helped to identify the possibilities and limit the effects. The preparation of the 2018 budget is under way. At this point, it is not possible for me to provide figures because they are not yet known. However, no action will be imposed without dialogue with the NLCAs, as has been the case in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We have understood the message and it will certainly be passed on. If you know me a little bit, you know that you can rest assured. I am still waiting for the written record of the answer, because reading the figures was rather quick. I will be better able to include it from the report. As regards underutilisation, for example, I did not get the figure of 120 million. You may have skipped that, but I wonder which posts are all underused. The practice of underutilisation was already common among previous governments, as the opposition now claims. Moreover, change is always possible. In view of the challenges in development cooperation, it could be a good message if you abandon the practice of underutilisation, which existed among previous governments, so that these resources can be used to meet the many challenges facing you. Impact is important, but more resources are also important. Recently, with the European Consensus on Development, the 0,7% standard was clearly repeated. During his speech in response to the European Development Days, Juncker also stressed that a fifteenth of the funds spent should be achieved through the 0,7%. So each country is asked to use 0,7% and the rest will have to come from other actors; that is quite clear. As a prosperous country, we must be able to achieve that minimum minimum. We continue to work for this, not only from Parliament, because this message is of course also passed on to the Cabinets, in order to meet today's important challenges in the field of development cooperation. I hope that the prediction based on the peer review, that we only reach 0.38 % in 2019, will not be realised in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u32	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. Indeed, it is always a little complicated to react to hot weather, given the speed of responses, when it comes to such encrypted data. We will examine the report carefully, and return to you, if necessary. I haven't received many answers to my direct questions. However, I understand that as far as 2018 is concerned, the budget is under discussion and it is therefore impossible for you to provide me with information for the moment. I would still have hoped to get some guidance that I did not find in your answer. There are already concerns in the sector about these budgets that will be decided. I hope that you will be attentive to this and, in any case, that you will weigh with all your weight in the government, to avoid further major cuts in certain areas, which are essential for raising awareness here in the North, but also for a whole series of projects in the South.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic711x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is expected to attend the nuclear cabinet meeting at 11.30 a.m. We can't re-interview him until September. That is why I propose that any member of the Minister who wishes to reply to his questions before that date should have those questions translated into written questions.
